K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about a hire purchase  agreement,  taken out in his name  with Blue Motor  
Finance Ltd (BMF).
background 
In late 2015, a hire purchase agreement with BMF  was taken out in Mr Rs name.  The 
agreement allowed the applicant to get a used car from an independent  car dealer, close to 
where Mr R lives. The agreement forms show that the repayments came from an account 
held by a third party, who was living with Mr R at the time.
Mr R says he was unaware of the agreement,  until July 2018. He says he discovered the 
third party had used  his identification, pay slips and other personal details to apply  to BMF, 
to get a car. Mr R says that he contacted BMF as soon  as he became  aware  of what  had 
happened, to arrange to return the car and end the agreement. He says he didnt report  this 
to the police at the time, as he didnt want to get the third party  into trouble.
BMF agreed that Mr R could voluntarily  terminate the agreement,  if he was able to make a 
final monthly payment.  BMF told Mr R that he needed to pay some arrears  that had accrued 
on the account and for any damage  to the car. 
Mr R arranged for the car to be taken to a garage by the third party, to be cleaned and for 
some repairs  to be carried out before BMF collected it. BMF say that they agreed to collect  it 
directly from that garage, after a short time, so the repairs  could be made.
The person  BMF sent to collect the car, says that it was in so much  disrepair that they 
couldnt drive it. So, they had to arrange  for a recovery vehicle to take the car away.  BMF 
say that the owner of the repairing  garage refused to take responsibility for the car, but also 
that the garage owner wouldnt let anyone  take it away.
In late 2018, BMF sent an arrears notice to Mr R, as payments werent being made under 
the agreement. Mr R says that he hadnt heard from BMF since  they had arranged to collect  
the car from the repairing  garage. Both BMF  and Mr R made enquiries with the repairing 
garage, which has since moved  premises. But, neither have managed  to find out where the 
car is now. 
BMF continued to ask Mr R to repay the arrears on the account.  But, Mr R says he isnt 
responsible for it. Mr R complained to BMF  in December 2018  and said the agreement was 
taken out fraudulently and that BMF  didnt contact him, when  they couldnt collect the car. 
Also, Mr R contacted the police at this time,  to report the car as stolen.
In their final response to Mr Rs complaint, BMF say there isnt any evidence  to show  Mr Rs 
identity had been stolen and that they are entitled to ask him to carry on with the 
repayments, as he didnt return the car. BMF said that they will work with Mr R on an 
affordable repayment  plan.  Mr R didnt accept  BMFs response and brought his complaint to 
us. Whilst we were investigating Mr Rs complaint, he agreed to make payments of £80 a 
month to BMF.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Rs complaint and was persuaded that Mr R wasnt 
aware of the hire purchase agreement, so shouldnt be held responsible for it. They 
Ref: DRN28410652concluded that BMF hadnt done enough  after their inspection at the repairing garage,  to tell 
Mr R what was happening. 
The investigator said BMF should  cancel the hire purchase agreement,  refund the payments 
of £80 Mr R has made  since 7 February  2019 and pay interest on those  payments.  They 
also said the agreement  should be removed from Mr Rs credit  reference agency records 
and that BMF should pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience  they had caused.
Mr R accepted the investigators findings,  but BMF didnt. They  said the correct identification 
was taken at the time of the hire purchase agreement  application,  and statements and letters 
were sent to Mr Rs address. They also said that Mr R allowed the same third party  he had 
accused of fraud, to leave the car at an unknown garage.  The investigator responded to say 
it was reasonable  for Mr R to arrange to take the car to a place  where BMF had agreed to 
collect it from. And he was persuaded that Mr R didnt have access to the correspondence 
sent by BMF  until July 2018.
The investigator didnt  change their opinion and BMF  asked  for the case to be referred  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the hire purchase  agreement application
BMF have shown us their records which detail  the information used in the application for the 
hire purchase agreement in Mr Rs name. They say this information was sufficient  for the 
application and Mr R was sent hard copies of the agreement, so he was made aware  of the 
application. Ive thought  carefully about the information BMF used  and when its likely, Mr R 
became aware  of the loan agreement.
BMF used a copy of Mr Rs photographic identification for his place of work and a payslip to 
process the loan application. Mr R says that he kept these documents in a drawer, at his 
home, when he wasnt  using them. He says a family  member  was able to take copies of 
these documents  without  him knowing,  and send them to BMF.
The email  address used  throughout the application  and for over two and a half years whilst 
the repayments were  made, contains  a different name to that of Mr R. That name is the 
same person  who Mr R says has fraudulently used his details to get the loan. Mr R has also 
used a different  email  address in his correspondence with us. So, taking everything into 
consideration, I can see how its likely a third party was able to access key documents  
needed for the loan application.  And I can see how information sent by email, would have 
gone to someone  other than Mr R.
Mr R has explained to us that his employment at the time, meant that he was away  from his 
home during the day, returning after the post had been delivered. He says the person  who 
applied for the loan was living with him at the time and they were able to intercept any paper 
documents sent from BMF. I accept that Mr Rs explanation relies  on a third party  
successfully preventing Mr R from getting  all his mail. But, given the other circumstances 
here, I think  what Mr R says is credible and he has been consistent in what hes told us.
Ref: DRN28410653BMFs records show that repayments were  made  from an account  which  wasnt in Mr Rs 
name. The account was in the name of the person Mr R says applied for the loan. I have 
seen bank statements  for that account, which show the payments going out on a regular 
basis. 
Mr R has sent us a copy  of his credit  file. So, I can see he only had one current account  
open at the time. I have looked  at bank statements for the current account  held by Mr R, to 
see if there is a cross reference of any payments going to the third partys account. Having 
looked carefully at the transactions across both accounts, I dont think  Mr R made any 
payments towards  the agreement. I think that the third party serviced the loan agreement  up 
until July 2018,  when BMF sent an arrears notice to Mr R, which wasnt intercepted. I also 
think Mr R wasnt  a party on the repayment account  and was unaware of any obligation he 
had to BMF.
In the summer  of 2017, BMFs  records show  that a telephone call was made  to them,  from 
Mr R. BMF  have sent us a copy of that telephone call and I have  listened  to it, to compare 
the callers voice to that of Mr Rs. Having done so, Im persuaded that the two voices are 
different, and I dont  think it was Mr R who made that call.
Within the telephone call, BMF sent the caller information in an email,  and stayed on the line 
whilst the caller checked that they had received it. BMF confirmed the email  address they 
had sent the information  to and it was the same email address used in the application. The 
caller then confirmed  receipt of that email to BMF.
Ive concluded  that the email address used in the application for the hire purchase 
agreement, contains the same name as the person Mr R says used his details. I think the 
telephone call reveals that the owner of that email  address, wasnt  Mr R. So, I think a third 
party was able to speak to BMF  about  the hire purchase agreement and administer the 
account without  Mr Rs knowledge or authorisation.
Mr R has explained that the person, he says used  his details in the application,  was living  
with him at the time.  Mr R has told us about some very sad and difficult  personal 
circumstances both he and the third party  were  experiencing. He says it was because  of 
these circumstances,  that he tried to end the agreement when he found out about it. And he 
says he chose not to inform the police, as he didnt  want to make their personal 
circumstances any worse.
I think what Mr R says is reasonable, considering it was his intention  to simply give the car 
back to BMF  in July 2018, to avoid any further upset to all parties  involved.  I dont  think  
Mr Rs reluctance  to involve the police at that stage,  meant that it was him that took out the 
hire purchase agreement,  or that he was aware  of it at the start. Due to his relationship  to 
the third party,  Im persuaded it was reasonable for him to attempt to end the contract with 
BMF and handle his personal  situation himself.
Mr R says he contacted  the police when  he was aware that the car was missing  in 
December 2018.  This was shortly after BMF wrote  to him, for the first time since  they had 
inspected the car. While I understand why he didnt  report the earlier incident with the 
application, I think Mr R acted in good  time to involve the police, when  he realised the car 
was missing from the repairing garage.
Aside from what Ive considered about  Mr Rs involvement with the application, Ive also 
thought about BMFs obligation to look further at the information submitted  by the applicant. 
Ref: DRN28410654BMF have told us that they performed a check with a credit reference agency  and looked  at 
one of Mr Rs payslips.  So, Ive considered  if the information given to BMF  meant that it was 
fair for them  to proceed with the application.
The total amount  repayable under the hire purchase  agreement  was around £32,000, and 
the monthly repayments came to nearly a third of the income showing on Mr Rs payslip. 
BMF havent  provided any income  and expenditure details, to show that they asked Mr R 
about his circumstances. Given the repayments due under the agreement and Mr Rs 
monthly income at the time, I think it should  have prompted BMF  to ask further details about 
his financial circumstances.
The photographic identification used, was Mr Rs employee identification,  which shows  his 
first initial and not his full name. BMF  have told us that they matched  these  details with the 
information they received from a credit reference agency. I think the identification  used 
meant BMF should have  been more curious about  the application. I think  an identification 
document, showing Mr Rs full, correct name, would have been  more appropriate here,  when 
looking to cross reference it with the information from the credit reference  agency.
In all the circumstances, I think BMF didnt treat Mr R fairly  when they processed  the hire 
purchase agreement  application. I think the size of the repayments compared  to Mr Rs 
monthly income and the identification used,  should have prompted BMF to ask for further 
information.
Having considered everything, I think Mr Rs explanation of how a third party  was able to use 
his personal details and monitor his mail is reasonable. I think  he has been credible and 
consistent throughout the complaint with BMF  and with us. I think  the email address  used in 
the application, the bank  account used for the repayments and the copy of the telephone call 
show that Mr R wasnt  aware that the agreement was opened in his name and that he wasnt  
contributing to it. 
Im persuaded that the third party made  the application to BMF, using  Mr Rs personal 
details without his knowledge or authorisation. Im also persuaded that the same third party  
went on to administer the hire purchase  agreement for over two and a half years and that Mr 
R wasnt aware of the repayments and didnt have any connection to the repayment account. 
So, I dont think its fair that BMF  should hold Mr R responsible for the hire purchase  
agreement.
In all the circumstances, I think BMF should  take back the account and the outstanding debt 
from the debt recovery  agent and remove Mr R from the hire purchase  agreement.  I also 
think BMF  should remove any information that has been recorded  with credit reference  
agencies about  the hire purchase agreement.
Ref: DRN28410655the inspection  of the car
Mr R says that he became aware of the hire purchase agreement in his name, in July 2018.  I 
can see that Mr R wrote to BMF soon afterwards,  to voluntarily terminate the agreement. 
Mr R also explained to BMF that he understood the liability involved with voluntarily 
terminating an agreement, in that he was required to pay BMF half of the hire purchase 
price. BMF replied to Mr R within a few weeks  and explained that he needed  to repay the 
arrears under the agreement, to allow the voluntary termination to take place. BMF also said 
that they would provide Mr R with a vehicle  condition report, to show  any damage  he would 
have to pay for, or repair  himself.
In August  2018,  Mr R says he called BMF and arranged for the car to be taken to a repair  
garage, where it would  be inspected by an agent of BMF. BMF says that their agent  went  to 
the garage and there isnt any evidence to suggest  they had concerns with this at the time. 
So, Im persuaded  that BMF agreed to inspect the car at a location away from Mr Rs home. 
I dont think Mr R took it upon himself to leave the car at an unknown  repair  garage  and I 
think BMF  were  satisfied with these arrangements.
Mr R says the third party who had used the car, drove it to the garage, as they were  the 
person insured and had applied for the agreement  in the first place.  I think  it was reasonable 
for Mr R to have done that, considering his relationship with the third party and because that 
person was insured to drive  the car. So, I dont think Mr R took an unnecessary risk here.
BMF have told us that when their inspection agent went to the repair  garage,  the car was a 
non-runner. So, BMF say they needed to make arrangements for a recovery vehicle. BMF 
havent been able to show the results of their inspection, or that they managed to remove the 
car with a recovery vehicle. They say, the owner  of the repair  garage  refused to hand the car 
over.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen,  I think its likely  an inspection  took place, but BMF didnt 
follow through with the recovery of the car from the repair garage. Under  this hire purchase 
agreement, BMF remained the owners of the car. So, I think  they were able to remove the 
car from the repairing garage, despite  what protests they say the owner  was putting in their 
way. And if that wasnt possible, I think BMF had an obligation to Mr R, to at least have 
contacted him, at that point, to try and resolve  the matter.
Both Mr R and BMF say the next contact  they had with each other,  was in December 2018. 
It was at this stage that BMF sent Mr R a further arrears letter. Mr R says that this is when 
he first became aware  that the voluntary termination of the agreement hadnt  been 
completed. I can see from BMFs case notes  from that time,  that Mr R said hed been  
unsuccessful in trying to contact the repair garage, and it was when they discovered that the 
car was missing.
BMF say that Mr R is responsible for paying  for the shortfall of the missing  car. This means 
they are holding him liable  for the remainder of the amount due under  the hire purchase 
agreement. But, BMF didnt send Mr R an outline of the repairs needed to the car, or to say 
that it was still at the repair  garage, in August 2018. Had they done so, I think Mr R would 
have had the opportunity to collect the car, authorise repairs  or simply return it to BMF  again,  
for them to complete the voluntary termination.
In all the circumstances, I think BMF caused  a delay, by not contacting Mr R about  the return 
of the car in August 2018. I dont think Mr R was responsible for the car until BMF  made 
Ref: DRN28410656contact with him again, to talk about  the hire purchase agreement in December 2018. So, I 
think BMF  have  treated  Mr R unfairly,  by holding him responsible  for the remainder of the 
amount due under the hire purchase  agreement.
Having considered everything, I think BMF should  end their pursuit  of Mr R and not require 
him to pay anything further towards the hire purchase agreement.
the repayments of £80 made by Mr R
After BMF  discovered that the car was missing, they asked Mr R to make  up the shortfall of 
its value. Mr R completed an income and expenditure exercise with BMF, and agreed to 
make payments of £80 a month,  to gradually  repay the outstanding amount owed under the 
agreement.
Im persuaded that a family member took out the hire purchase agreement  in Mr Rs name,  
without his knowledge and authorisation. And Ive found that as much  as reasonably 
possible, its fair for Mr R to be put back in the position he was in, before the loan was 
agreed. So, I think it would be fair for BMF  to refund all the repayments  of £80, which  Mr R 
has made since the repayment  plan was agreed in February 2019.
I also think that Mr R was without the use of the repayments, he made  to BMF. So, I think 
BMF should  add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple  to the refunded  payments, from the 
date they were paid,  to the date when  this complaint is settled.
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr R
Mr R has explained the difficult circumstances he experienced,  when  he found out what  a 
third party had done. Ive concluded that Mr R acted reasonably, when he arranged  for the 
return of the car. Ive also concluded that BMF could have made  him aware  of their opinion  
about the cars condition, much sooner than they did. 
So, I think Mr R was caused  distress  when BMF told him the arrears remained outstanding, 
when he thought the voluntary termination had already happened. I also think, further 
distress was caused to Mr R when he was told that the car was missing,  and it was his 
responsibility to make  up any shortfall  of the cars value.
Mr R has since  gone on to make  payments from his income in retirement.  And has lived with 
the worry of the effect of the arrears, on the information  held with credit reference agencies.  
Im persuaded that someone, other than Mr R applied  for the hire purchase agreement and 
that BMF could have  recognised this, when  they began their investigation.  So, I think BMF 
has caused upset,  inconvenience and frustration  to Mr R, and I think  its fair for BMF to pay 
him compensation to reflect what happened to him.
In all the circumstances, I think it is fair that BMF make a payment to Mr R for the distress 
and inconvenience  he experienced.  
So, I think its fair that BMF pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience  they caused.
Ref: DRN28410657my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Blue Motor  Finance 
Ltd should:
1-Remove Mr R from the hire purchase  agreement, take back  the account  from the 
recovery agent and end their pursuit  of Mr R;
2-refund  to Mr R all the repayments of £80, he made from 1 February 2019 to the date 
of settlement;
3-pay Mr R interest  at an annual rate of 8% simple  on each of the £80 repayments he 
made, from the date they were paid, to the date of settlement;
4-remove the records of the hire purchase  agreement from Mr Rs credit  file; and
5-pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
BMF must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr R accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.  
If BMF deducts tax from any interest  they pay to Mr R, they should provide him with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one. This is so he can reclaim the tax from the tax 
authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Sam Wedderburn 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841065