K821x#15complaint
Mrs G has complained about her home insurer Allianz Insurance Plc regarding a claim she 
made to it in 2017  after a water leak damaged her home. 
background
There was a leak at Mrs Gs home on 27 May 2017. Allianz accepted  the claim but didnt 
start reinstatement  work until July 2017. Mrs G lived in her home until work began  at which 
point she was moved into rental accommodation.
The rental agreement  was due to end in January 2018 and Allianz thought  Mrs G could 
return home. But Mrs G said she felt that the house  was uninhabitable and potentially  
dangerous. This triggered a dispute about  whether Allianz should continue  to pay for the 
rental accommodation. Mrs G returned  home in late January 2018 but, in February 2018, 
she had to move out again for three months.  Allianz  paid in full for the three-month  period of 
alternative accommodation which started in February 2018.  But it only paid £1,000  towards 
the total cost of £1,850  Mrs G said shed incurred for staying in the rental accommodation  in 
January 2018  (and which she said Allianz  had previously agreed to cover in full). 
Mrs G complained to Allianz.  She explained it had been inconvenient and stressful living  in a 
damaged and uninhabitable house.  She was caused upset because her pet became lost 
and she had outstanding costs which Allianz hadnt  offered  settlement for, including the 
outstanding amount of £850 for Januarys rent.
Allianz issued a final response  to Mrs G setting out what further costs it would pay. It also 
said it would  pay Mrs G £800 compensation. Mrs G felt the offer of compensation wasnt  
enough and that Allianz should  be paying all of the rent shed had to pay. She said £895 in 
rent was owed by Allianz as well as £100 in council tax but she couldnt evidence  payment of 
the rent as shed borrowed money  from friends and family. Mrs G also commented that 
Allianz had often made her wait months  for payments it had accepted  were  due to her and 
had agreed to pay. She said that whilst  at home  shed been  unable to prepare  or cook  food 
because thered been no running water in the kitchen. 
Our investigator considered the complaint.  But when it couldnt  be resolved it was passed  to 
me for a decision to be made. I felt Allianz  should  be making further claim payments to 
Mrs G, but I wasnt  persuaded that further  compensation  was due. Both parties said they 
accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Having asked Allianz for more detail about its actions and decisions during the claim it has 
told us that it cant answer the queries I raised  with it  it has no evidence  to provide from the 
first few months  of the claim and it has asked  me to decide the case  based  on the evidence 
that has been previously submitted. As Allianz  cant answer my queries all I can reasonably 
do is provide the benefit of the doubt to Mrs G and, where there  is a lack of tangible  
evidence available, base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, given 
Ref: DRN21796122what Mrs G has said and the prevailing circumstances as they are known. I expect Allianz 
may not agree with some of my findings and will want  to challenge them. That is its right but, 
given the extended period that had been  given to Allianz previously to allow  it to provide  
further information and answer  my queries, I am unlikely  to allow  it more  than the standard  
response period  to allow it to do that.
Allianz has accepted  that the home was uninhabitable following the leak. Which  means  
Mrs G was left to live in her uninhabitable  home for around two months.  Allianz should pay 
her a disturbance allowance  for the period from the point of the loss until she moved into the 
rented accommodation.   
There is no doubt that poor work  was completed  at Mrs Gs home by Allianz  contractors. 
That is clear because Allianz ultimately  had to pay Mrs G so she could have the original 
work re-done  and this was quite substantial re-work because Mrs G had to move out of her 
home again. For a further three  months.  I think its also fair to say, from the detail I have 
seen, that Mrs G had to be quite insistent with Allianz loss adjuster in order  to get things 
done. The work likely took longer than it should have done. But I note Allianz  has paid £800 
compensation. Whilst I know Mrs G feels that this is insufficient, I think that is largely due to 
the fact that Allianz has refused to pay her for other costs  she says shes  incurred. Ill look at 
those below. But I do think  £800  is significant compensation. From what Ive seen  here 
I think it is fair and reasonable given the upset Im satisfied Allianz  caused  by its poor 
handling of the claim.  
outstanding costs   
Mrs G and the loss adjuster had a conversation on 19 December  2017.  Mrs G seems  to 
have said she had lost faith in Allianz contractor to complete  work  satisfactorily.  Allianz 
seems to have agreed to settle the remaining work  in cash and the value of this began to be 
discussed. The loss adjuster though told Mrs G in an email that Allianz will not pay rent 
beyond 4 January  (the end of the six-month let it had paid for) as its contractors would have 
returned the home to a habitable state by then.  In the same  email it is confirmed that the 
kitchen units are still to be taken out and replaced.  Other discussions also took place about 
concerns Mrs G had with the work  that had been done, and whether those repair  issues 
meant the house  was uninhabitable. 
Im not necessarily persuaded that the list of issues with the work meant the home was 
uninhabitable  but there were certainly  a lot of things  left which  needed resolving. And 
I bear in mind that when work was re-done Mrs G had to move out of her home again. But 
I also have my doubts that Mrs G could  reasonably  have been expected to move  back in 
with the major kitchen  work outstanding. And I find it unlikely, given  the time of year,  that this 
work could  reasonably have been completed by Allianz contractor by 4 January 2018. I also 
bear in mind  that Mrs G clearly wasnt just refusing to have that contractor back  for no good 
reason. So if that equated  to a delay in the work completing, that was Allianz fault, not hers.
The difficulty  for me though comes because Allianz,  ultimately, did not maintain  its refusal  to 
cover rent for this period. Rather it seems to have agreed to pay the amount Mrs G could 
evidence. Mrs G showed she paid £1,000  to the landlord so Allianz reimbursed this. But 
Mrs G said shed paid a further £850  which shed  had to borrow from friends and family, and 
did not have a receipt for from the landlord.  The landlord is no longer contactable. Mrs G 
says she couldnt  have stayed there without paying, so her word  should be accepted.  
It does bother me that Mrs G has a receipt for part of the monthly amount, but cant show  the 
payment of the other  £850 she says she paid to the landlord. But I bear in mind  that Mrs G 
Ref: DRN21796123was dealing with a complicated and frustrating repair issue at that time. And whilst she felt 
Allianz should be paying that rent, it had refused to do so. Following that, the family moved  
back home and then back into rented accommodation again. So I dont think its really fair to 
blame Mrs G for not having evidence of that payment. And Allianz  hasnt sought  to argue 
that Mrs G wasnt  living  in the rented property for most of the month of January 2018. Allianz 
had previously paid for a six-month  term, which it said ended on 4 January, at a cost of 
£1,850 per month. Im minded to think its unlikely the landlord would have let the family stay 
through to the end of January whilst only accepting around half of the monthly  rent. In many  
circumstances I would  expect to see an invoice to evidence payment  but, on this occasion, 
in the circumstances here, I think its reasonable to say Allianz should pay the outstanding 
sum of £850  to Mrs G. To that it will have to add interest* from 4 January 2018 until 
settlement is made.  
In late 2018 Allianz  paid £183 being  an amount for an outstanding council tax bill. As far as 
Im aware this was for the period of January 2018. Whilst Ive seen Mrs G referring at times 
to payment for council tax being outstanding,  I think this payment resolved that issue.  I dont  
intend to ask Allianz to make further payments regarding  council tax.
Allianz paid for parking charges due at the rental property.  But it said that it wouldnt pay one 
final sum of £225.20  which Mrs G had asked for as it hadnt  seen  an invoice for this amount. 
Mrs G later provided  an invoice for £100 and our investigator said Allianz should reimburse 
this sum to her. As far as Im aware  this sum remains outstanding. Im going to require 
Allianz to pay it, plus interest from 10 June  2019  being the date our investigator shared this 
evidence with Allianz (as it doesnt seem to have been provided to it before). If Mrs G can 
show it was provided  to Allianz before  then I may require interest to be added from the date 
it was provided. 
When Mrs G returned  home on 28 January 2018  she says she didnt have running water.  
The snagging list and priced scope for re-work doesnt seem  to reflect  this. But the scope 
does show that the cooker, hob and hood  needed  renewing. I think Allianz should pay Mrs G 
a disturbance allowance for the period 28 January  13 February 2018 inclusive.
I know Mrs G says that many payments went unpaid by Allianz for long periods. I havent 
been able to locate any specific payments in this respect (beyond the ones Ive dealt with 
above). Generally payments  from insurers  do sometimes take a little while to be authorised  
and processed,  especially during a large  claim like this one. Apart from what Ive set out 
above, Im not persuaded it would  be fair to make Allianz pay any further amounts of interest 
on the claim payments  it has made. 
As both parties have  agreed with my findings,  Ive no need to change them. My provisional 
findings are now those of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz  Insurance Plc to pay Mrs G:
A disturbance allowance across the two periods 27 May  4 July 2017 and 28 January  
13 February 2018.
£800 compensation (unless this has been paid already).
£850 as reimbursed rent, plus interest* from 4 January 2018 until settlement is made.
£100 as reimbursement of parking charges, plus interest* from 10 June 2019 until 
settlement is made.
Ref: DRN21796124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Allianz  Insurance  
Plc considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs G, it should tell 
them how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2179612