K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) dealt with a claim for 
water damage on her home insurance  policy. She doesnt think  its offered enough to put 
things right.
background
Mrs M is represented  in this complaint by Mr M. I'll refer to Mr M's comments as being  those  
of Mrs M for ease  of reading. Mrs Ms dishwasher leaked and caused  water damage to the 
kitchen units and flooring. She was quoted around  £5,000 to replace the kitchen units. But 
RSA has only offered around  £3,700  and she doesnt think its enough. RSAs  surveyor said 
Mrs M could  put the existing doors  onto the new units as the doors hadnt been damaged. 
But she wants the doors replacing  as well as the units themselves. Shes been told it would 
be more expensive to try and fit the old doors  to a new unit.
Mrs M also wants compensation for the tripping hazards left in the kitchen area. The floor 
was uneven with exposed nails which damaged some  clothing. Mrs M says she didnt have a 
working kitchen over the Christmas period. And shes been without a dishwasher for many 
months. She just wants RSA to offer a fair amount in settlement of her claim. 
RSA said it had appointed a surveyor to act on its behalf and validate the claim. It agreed  the 
items damaged by the escape of water should be covered by the home insurance policy. 
RSA said it wanted  to put Mrs M back in the position  shed  have been  in before the incident 
occurred. But itd been advised  that a full replacement of the kitchen units  wasnt required.  
So it would pay to replace the units but Mrs M could  re-hang the undamaged doors.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with RSAs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She understood the escape  of water wouldve  been quite 
distressing for Mrs M. But she felt RSA had acted  reasonably. Itd offered just over £3700 for 
the work  identified in its report. But it would only cover the cost of replacing items  damaged  
by the escape of water. RSA had agreed to pay for the replacement of the kitchen units but 
not the unit doors which were undamaged. And our investigator felt that was fair and in line 
with the insurance  policy. So she wouldnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Mrs M didnt  agree. Her family  had been put through a lot of inconvenience  which  lasted for 
many months. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how distressing  this mustve been  for Mrs M and her family. A leaking  dishwasher 
damaged part of her kitchen area.  And Mrs M had to deal with the impact of dust and mess 
while the area dried out. Shes unhappy with the cash settlement offered by RSA. So Ive 
looked carefully at whats happened to see if RSA has done anything  wrong.  And if so what  
it needs to do to put things right.
Mrs M has raised some other concerns  about the service shes received from RSA and its 
agents. Our investigator  has explained that RSA hasnt had the chance to respond as they 
werent part of the original  complaint  or its final response letter. 
Ref: DRN23430682I can see a separate  complaint has now been raised. And I think thats the right approach. It 
will allow RSA the opportunity to investigate and respond to Mrs M. So for the purposes of 
this decision Ill deal with Mrs Ms complaint that RSAs cash  settlement was too low. 
When Mrs M contacted RSA about her claim she said she wanted to use her own repairer. 
So RSA arranged for a surveyor to look at the damage and decide  what  needed replacing 
under her home insurance  policy. It said it would then offer a cash settlement to cover the 
necessary repairs or replacements.
Ive looked at the scope  of works identified and it includes  the cost of repairs  to the flooring 
and electrics and removing and re-fixing various items such  as the sink and worktops. The 
scope also includes the cost of replacing some damaged kitchen units  and removing and 
refitting existing doors and drawer fronts  to new units  as necessary.
I think RSA has acted  fairly in offering to pay for the costs of repairing anything  damaged  by 
the escape of water.  When Mrs M decided to organise the repairs  herself Id expect her 
insurers to offer a fair and reasonable settlement instead of carrying out the repairs itself. 
And I think thats what its done.  
I realise Mrs M says shes been  quoted a higher figure for restoring her kitchen area. And 
shes had to pay additional sums  for ongoing repair  work. But Mrs M had the choice  of 
asking for the damaged items to be repaired by RSA or accepting  a cash settlement to cover 
the cost of repair or replacement. 
By choosing  to organise the work herself Mrs M has the opportunity to repair or rebuild the 
kitchen however she wants. But I wouldnt expect  RSA to offer any more  than the cost it 
estimates it could carry out the repairs for itself.  That wouldnt be fair. The cupboard doors  
werent damaged  by the leak. They can be re-used on new units which  I understand wont 
be visible once the doors are fitted.  So there shouldnt be any problems with new units not 
matching the existing  kitchen.
I know Mrs M was also unhappy some tripping hazards had been left in the kitchen area.  
Our investigator provided a timeline  in her letter and I can see her complaint about  the 
unfinished flooring wasnt dealt with initially. But from what Ive seen the surveyors  then tried 
to contact Mrs M by phone and email  in the period leading up to RSAs  final response letter. 
And I cant really say it couldve done any more at the time. 
I know Mrs M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think  the cash  settlement offered 
by RSA is reasonable for the damage caused by the leak. Its approach  is in line with terms 
of Mrs Ms policy. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Andrew Mason
Ref: DRN23430683ombudsman
Ref: DRN2343068