K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms R took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1995. It seems  likely that she was sold PPI at the 
same time. 
The PPI wouldve helped cover  the repayments  on her credit card for up to 12 months  at a 
time if she couldnt work. It also provided some  life cover. 
Ms R has mentioned several  complaint points, although her main concern appears to be that 
she doesnt believe she gave her consent for the PPI to be added.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Rs complaint should be upheld.  Ms R disagrees,  so her case  
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Its not certain when  the PPI was sold. Lloyds  only has records  dating back  to 2000. But I 
think its most likely  that the PPI was sold at the same time the credit card was taken out. I 
dont have any evidence  to suggest  otherwise and this is the most  usual  time for PPI to be 
sold. 
Ms R says that she cant remember taking the PPI. She initially  said that if she had taken it, 
it wouldnt have been useful for her because she was self-employed  and may not have 
benefitted from some of the cover. However,  she also said in her original questionnaire to 
Lloyds that she was told she had to have  the PPI. 
I am not surprised that Ms R cant remember clearly  what happened  during a sale over 23 
years ago. Lloyds say that however  the credit card was sold,  Ms R wouldve had a clear 
choice about whether  to take the PPI. Lloyds has provided sample copies of the application 
forms that were in use at the time, and I can see from these that a clear choice was offered.
The PPI would also have  appeared each month  on Ms Rs credit card statement. If she 
hadnt agreed to buy it, I think she wouldve queried  it when she saw it. I also have to take 
into account that Ms R has also stated  that she was told she had to have it, which 
contradicts her later testimony that it was added without her knowledge or consent.
On the limited information I have available to me I cant safely  say that the PPI was added  
without Ms Rs knowledge or consent.  
Ref: DRN29462792Although Lloyds doesnt know  for sure how the PPI was sold,  it has accepted  that it would 
have personally  recommended  the PPI to Ms R. This places a greater responsibility  on 
Lloyds to take steps to make sure it was right for Ms R, so I think this is a fair way to 
approach the issue. 
There has been some confusion about  Ms Rs circumstances at the time of sale.  Ms R 
initially said that she was self-employed at the time of sale.  But shes  later said that she was 
actually employed.  Ive looked at the policy in place  at the time and I dont think  this makes a 
difference. If Ms R had been  self-employed then the terms of the policy  wouldnt have made 
it more difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
Ms R told Lloyds in a telephone conversation about her complaint that she was employed for 
a minimum of 18-20 hours a week. She said she wouldnt have received sick pay or 
redundancy pay, and that she didnt  have any savings. So I think she was eligible for the 
policy and would have  found the cover useful and suitable.
Ms R has since  said that her work was seasonal, and that she worked  fewer  hours  than she 
told Lloyds in her original complaint to them. She also stated in her questionnaire to this 
service that she was a student at the time and not working. 
I dont think I can be satisfied that Ms Rs alternative recollections of her circumstances is 
correct. Having listened to the call between  Ms R and Lloyds I am satisfied that Ms R gave 
her best possible recollection  as she was given the opportunity to work out the chronology  of 
events and seemed  to eventually do so with some  certainty. Ms R hasnt explained  how she 
later established  that her circumstances were different.  So, on balance, I think its most  likely 
Ms R was working in the way she told Lloyds in her original conversation  with them.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Ms R all the information it shouldve  done. But I dont  think 
more, or better, information  wouldve  made Ms R act differently and not buy the policy,  
because I think it was suitable for her. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt need  to pay back all of the premiums Ms R paid.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms R because when the policy  was 
sold, Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Ms R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Ms R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium (based  on an assumption the PPI was taken out in 1995)- 
and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint. I dont think the policy was mis-sold,  so Lloyds Bank Plc 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms R.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Ms R any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Ref: DRN29462793Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2946279