K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  gave him loans  
irresponsibly.
Background
This complaint relates to 12 instalment loans given  by Sunny to Mr D between  2015 and 
2017. The loan amounts  ranged from £100  to £600, and each loan were repayable  over six 
months. All of the loans have  been repaid.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  had been  wrong to provide  the first five loans, but he felt 
that it shouldnt  have given loans six to twelve to Mr D.
Sunny responded to our adjudication  and suggested  that it wasnt  in agreement because:
-it considered the value of the loans,  and the attached  repayments,  to be relatively  
modest compared to Mr Ds income.  As such,  it didnt accept that the loans were 
unaffordable, and;
-it doesnt agree that Mr D had become persistently reliant  upon  short  term loans. It felt 
that the break in lending of over three  months between loans four and five, coupled  with 
other shorter gaps in borrowing suggests that Mr D only took out a loan as and when he 
needed it. 
Because the parties havent agreed  the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN22288012the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Before lending to Mr D, Sunny asked  him for details of his income and expenditure, including  
any other short term credit commitments  - and its told us that it also obtained information 
from credit  reference agencies, although I havent seen this.
Having considered the circumstances of Mr Ds case  I agree with the adjudicators  
recommendation not to uphold his complaint about loans one to five. Even  though some of 
the loans overlapped, the aggregate  value  of monthly repayments  didnt  represent  a 
significant proportion  of Mr Ds monthly  disposable income. And I havent seen anything in 
the information that Sunny obtained  that I think shouldve given it cause for concern about  
the affordability of those  loans.
But Ive also looked  at the overall  pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen, from this pattern 
alone, that further lending  was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
this was the sixth loan that Mr D had taken out across more than 10 months  and hed 
been borrowing  from Sunny for around seven  months of that period;
at that time, loan five was still outstanding. Loan  five had been given in March and was 
scheduled for repayment over six months  by the end of August. It appears that only one 
monthly repayment had been made  by the time loan six was provided  - which would 
imply that the latter loan was being  used, in part, to repay the earlier loan;
I think that this pattern  of lending was an indication that Mr D was struggling  to manage 
his finances and that Sunny ought  to have realised  that it was more likely than not Mr D 
Ref: DRN22288013was having to borrow further  to cover the hole in his finances created by repaying 
previous loans.  
So, whilst I acknowledge  Sunnys view that the loan repayments represented a relatively  
modest proportion of Mr Ds income, I do consider that the overall pattern of Mr Ds 
borrowing suggested that hed become persistently reliant on short  term loans. Because he 
wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Sunny, Mr Ds indebtedness  was being 
prolonged, which meant that hed been paying  a significant amount of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Sunny over a long period.
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to lend money from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time;
the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for 
these high-cost loans.  
In these circumstances Im upholding Mr Ds complaint in relation to loans six to twelve.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr D paid on loans six to twelve;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six means that any information  about loans 
six to twelve is negative. So all entries about loans six to twelve  should be removed from 
Mr Ds credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as set our above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228801