K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy that Unum Ltd stopped paying  the benefit under an income protection  
policy it had taken over when she reached  60 years  of age.
background
Miss C had the benefit of a group income protection policy through her employer (the policy).  
Many years ago, Miss C became too ill to work and made a successful claim on the policy.  
She received the monthly benefit up to December 2017, when  she turned 60.
She contacted Unum  to ask why the monthly benefit  had stopped. It confirmed that the 
policy only paid out until Miss Cs 60th birthday. It said this had been selected by her 
employer when first setting up the policy.  Miss C doesnt think  thats right;  she says the 
policy should end on her retirement age and so she should continue  to receive the benefit  up 
to state pension age which, for her, will shortly be increasing to 66 years  of age. 
Unhappy, she complained to us. Our investigator  didnt  think  Unum had done  anything 
wrong so didnt recommend Miss Cs complaint be upheld. Miss C disagrees and has made 
further points  in reply. Her complaint has now been passed to me to look at everything 
afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Miss C will be disappointed but hopefully she will understand my reasons for not upholding 
her complaint when  I explain  why. 
Unum hasnt been able to provide  us with a copy of the policy  terms. However, I have seen a 
claim form completed shortly after Miss C became too ill to work. It contains information  such  
as the date Miss C became too ill to work, the date payment was due to commence under 
the policy and the benefit amount.  Important to this complaint, it also lists the termination 
date of the claim; and that date coincides with Miss Cs 60th birthday. 
Ive also seen a private  health insurance  entry  sheet  from around the same time. This also 
lists the termination date as a date which coincides with Miss Cs 60th birthday.
So, overall, Im satisfied Unum hasnt  unfairly stopped paying the policy  benefit to 
Miss C with effect of her 60th birthday.
When making this finding, Ive considered  all of Miss Cs comments  including  what she says 
about her recollection  that the policy terminated on her retirement date, and this should be 
taken to be her state pension age. Ive also considered the press  articles shes  sent us. 
I appreciate what Miss C says about  the increase to the state pension  age for women  since 
the policy started and that if its right that her claim terminates on her 60th birthday, shell  be 
left without the monthly benefit under the policy but will not yet be eligible to receive her state 
pension. But I dont  think that means when  the policy was taken out by her employer, it 
hadnt selected her 60th birthday as the termination date. And on the balance of probabilities,  
Im not persuaded that it was a term of the policy that any claim she made would end on her 
Ref: DRN25591122retirement date or state pension age. For the reasons set out above, I think  its more  likely 
that the claim ended  when she reached  60.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2559112