K820x#14complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that GKFX Financial Services Limited (GKFX) unfairly withheld his 
trading account  balance  after closing  the account.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. 
The adjudicator referred  to GKFXs  suspicion of market abuse in Mr Ds account  and to 
terms and conditions for the account  which reserved its discretion and right to close  the 
account as it did and to withhold his account balance. She noted that section 15 of the terms 
allowed GKFX to void trades  that may have been based on pricing  manifest errors, latent 
prices or force majeure and concluded  that it had grounds  to draw such  a conclusion in Mr 
Ds case. In support of his complaint Mr D also asserted that GKFX did not communicate  
with him properly in addressing the matter, but the adjudicator considered  that it dealt with 
his complaint in the appropriate  manner.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. His complaint included  reference to GKFX beginning,  
prior to its decision to close the account,  the process of remitting a part of his account  
balance for which he had submitted a withdrawal request. That remittance did not take place 
and the same applied to another withdrawal request he says he made  after GKFXs closure 
decision. In response  to the adjudicators view Mr D said that at the very least  GKFX  should 
be obliged  to complete the remittance for his initial withdrawal request as it had already 
began to do so before it decided to close his account. He also said GKFX is abusing  its 
terms for the account by using them arbitrarily to void trades and to withhold funds. The 
matter was then referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicators for broadly the same reasons.  
Under section 15 of the terms for Mr Ds trading account trades can be voided where they 
may have been based on manifest  errors, latent prices or force majeure.  GKFXs  concern 
relates to an alleged abuse  of latent prices within trading  in his account. The effect of section 
15 was that it required  only a suspicion of such abuse in order to take avoid by voiding 
trades. To put it another way, using the language from section 15, in order to void trades  it 
required only a basis to say that such trading may have  taken  place. I have not seen 
evidence of a higher  burden of proof upon GKFX or evidence  to persuade me that GKFX  
exercised its right under section 15 arbitrarily.  It appears from evidence  that it had 
reasonable grounds to consider that the alleged abusive trading may have taken place in Mr 
Ds account. 
The effect that follows from voiding the trades in Mr Ds case  is that proceeds of those trades  
also become nullified.  Those proceeds  were the basis for the account balance  he sought  to 
withdraw, so I do not consider that his initial withdrawal request makes a difference. GKFX 
appears to have established  grounds  to void the relevant trades and to close  his account 
after his request but, importantly, before remittance for that request  was completed.  It 
retained the position to apply the effect of the voided  trades to the account balance  as it was 
Ref: DRN23914762when it made its decision  to void them, irrespective of when Mr D asked to withdraw part of it 
or when  the incomplete withdrawal process  began.  
I also agree  with the adjudicators observation that GKFXs engagement with Mr D in the 
matter and up to its final response was appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 9 August 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2391476