K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains TSB Bank Plc has continued to charge fees and interest on an account it 
said it was going  to close. He also complains TSB hasnt allowed him to set up a repayment 
plan. 
background
Mr D has a current account  with TSB with an overdraft.
TSB wrote to Mr D to say that it was going  to close his account. Mr D says that TSB 
continued to apply charges and interest  after his account closed. He complained to TSB 
about this. Mr D also says that he wanted  to set up a repayment  plan to clear his overdraft 
but TSB kept on telling  him to speak to us. Hes complained about that too.
TSB investigated Mr Ds complaint about charges and interest but didnt uphold  it. It said that 
it hadnt been able to close  his account when it had said it would because  it was overdrawn. 
TSB said that it had written to Mr D to say that he needed to clear the overdraft before the 
account could  be closed, and that it would apply charges and interest until he did so. Mr D 
was unhappy  with TSBs response and so complained to us. He has a number of complaints 
about TSB with us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint that TSB continued to apply charges 
and interest to his account. They also looked into Mr Ds complaint that TSB wouldnt allow 
him to set up a repayment plan. Our investigator  didnt think TSB had acted fairly as it hadnt  
given Mr D an opportunity  to set up a repayment  plan. So they recommended  that TSB 
refund the charges and interest it had applied to Mr Ds account and pay him £200 in 
compensation.
Both sides initially accepted our investigators recommendations. Mr D, however, says that 
TSB hadnt adjusted his account when he called a couple of days later to arrange a 
repayment plan.  Mr D was very upset  about  this. He said he was no longer happy to accept 
our investigators recommendations as he now felt TSB should  pay him £600  in 
compensation instead. Mr D asked for a decision from an ombudsman so Ive looked into his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB wrote to Mr D to say that it was going  to close his current account  in sixty days. His 
account was approximately £3,000 overdrawn when TSB was meant to close it. Ive seen a 
copy of the letter that TSB sent to Mr D, and it says that TSB wouldnt close  the account until 
the overdraft was repaid and if the overdraft wasnt repaid then it would continue to apply 
charges and interest. So I dont think TSB did anything wrong  when it didnt close Mr Ds 
account when  it said it would as the overdraft hadnt been cleared.
TSB wrote to Mr D asking him to call to discuss his account and repaying  his overdraft. Mr D 
says he did just that and TSB told him he had to speak to us instead. Im satisfied that this is 
what TSB told Mr D, even  though  TSB hasnt been  able to provide a recording of this 
particular call, as Mr D rang us the same day to explain what  had happened.  Ive also heard 
Ref: DRN27996232other calls when Mr D has told TSB that he would  like to set up a repayment  plan and hes 
been told he has to speak to us instead. I can understand why Mr D found  this frustrating 
and confusing  particularly when it was TSB who had written  to him asking to call to discuss  
a repayment plan. I also dont think it was helpful given that Mr D wanted  to set up a 
repayment plan for his overdraft. Had he been able to do so, its likely that would have led to 
the charges and interest on his account  being frozen. So I agree with our investigator that 
TSB should refund the charges and interest that it applied. I also have  to decide what  
compensation, if any, TSB should pay Mr D for the trouble and upset hes been caused.
Ive already accepted that it would  have been frustrating and confusing when TSB kept on 
telling Mr D to speak  to us when he wanted to arrange a repayment plan. It meant that Mr D 
got letters chasing him for the outstanding  balance  despite  the fact that hed been trying  to 
repay it. I also accept that it must have been worrying for Mr D to see the amount he owed 
going up because  of the charges and interest that TSB was applying.  Im aware that Mr D 
has been having problems with depression, and Ive taken this into account too. I can see 
that Mr D was very upset  that TSB didnt adjust his account after both sides  accepted our 
investigators recommendations. I dont, however, think  it would be fair to take that into 
account when  deciding how much trouble and upset to award.  Thats because we normally  
give businesses up to four weeks to arrange  settlement  obviously its better if they can do 
so sooner. So I wouldnt necessarily have expected TSB to have adjusted the account only a 
couple of days  after both parties  accepted our investigators recommendations. For the 
reasons, I think that the £200  that has already been offered is fair and reasonable and I 
wont be increasing it. 
Mr D appears  to be in financial difficulties, and hes tried to tell TSB about this. TSB needs  to 
treat Mr D positively and sympathetically if he is in financial difficulties. Both sides will need 
to talk about what happens  next, and its likely that this will need to include agreeing  a 
repayment plan.  I hope both sides now do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
TSB Bank Plc to:
refund  all of the charges and interest its applied to Mr Ds account  
from 2 January 2018 onwards; and,
pay Mr D £200 in compensation for his material distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799623