K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream)  was irresponsible to lend 
her money.
background
Mrs T out seven instalment loans with Lending Stream  between December 2010 and 
September 2017.
Mrs T said that Lending Stream had partially  upheld her complaint so she would like us to 
look at her other loans  as they were  for larger amounts.
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Stream had offered to do enough  and didnt 
recommend that Mrs Ts complaint be upheld. 
Mrs T asked  for her complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman so it has come to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure   
Mrs T could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have  done more  to establish that any lending 
was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN28069042I think that its important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream  was required to 
establish whether  Mrs T could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether  the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  defines sustainable  as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ts complaint.
loans one to three
Lending Stream has already offered to refund the interest and charges that Mrs T paid on 
loans one to three. And it will remove any negative information about the three loans from 
Mrs Ts credit file.
As Lending Stream has already offered to do what I wouldve required it to do had I upheld  
Mrs Ts complaint about loans one to three, I dont think I need to say anything more  about 
these loans.
loans four to six
There was a gap of almost five years between repaying loan three and taking out loan four. I 
think that this effectively broke the previous chain of lending. And in the absence  of any 
evidence to the contrary, it was reasonable of Lending Stream  to assume  that Mrs Ts 
financial situation had improved.
Lending Stream recorded Mrs Ts monthly income  to be £4,000 before agreeing loans four to 
six. Her declared monthly expenditure varied between £1,087 and £1,535.  Although Mrs T 
was borrowing more  money than before for loans four and five, Lending Stream  expected  
her to repay the loans over six months. 
Im satisfied that Lending Streams checks went far enough.  Based on the information that 
Mrs T gave  about her financial situation, it appeared as though  she could afford  to repay  
each loan. It follows that I dont require Lending  Stream to do anything about  these loans.
loan seven
There was then a break  of more than six months between  repaying loan six and taking  out 
loan seven. So I cant reasonably say that Lending  Stream shouldve been  alerted to a 
possible dependency on short term lending. 
Ref: DRN28069043Lending Stream has given  us evidence that it asked  Mrs T for details of her income and 
expenditure. Again Lending Stream recorded  a monthly income  of £4,000  with outgoings of 
£1,185.
I think that Lending Stream carried out adequate checks. From the information  it held about  
Mrs T it looked  as though  she could afford  to repay  loan seven from her disposable income.
To put things right  for loans one to three, Lending Stream should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mrs T paid on loans one to three;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any negative information  about loans one to three from Mrs Ts credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Lending 
Stream must give Mrs T a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint in the sense that I find that Lending 
Stream has already offered  to do enough by taking the above steps if Mrs T accepts my 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2806904