K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly gave him a loan which was 
unaffordable.
background
Mr M complained to Lloyds about  two loans but as the first one was taken out on 17 
November 2008  and repaid on 30 October 2013 it said his complaint was out of time. Mr M 
accepted this but said it gave some context to the second loan. He said he had an overdraft, 
a number of payday loans  and other  loans at the time. A quick look at his bank statements 
wouldve shown this. It wouldve also shown discretionary expenditure including  on adult  
services sites which was become increasingly addictive.
Lloyds said Mr M applied  for the second  loan online on 27 July 2014. It was credit  scored  
and based on the information  available at the time it thought it was affordable. It said it 
appeared to be used  to refinance  existing  borrowing.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds had done  anything wrong. She couldnt  see there was 
any adverse information  on his credit  record that wouldve  suggested he couldnt afford the 
loan.
Mr M wasnt happy with this. He said Lloyds shouldve taken into account the transaction  
history on his bank account.  He said he was regularly overdrawn at the time, had a debt that 
was with a debt collector and had recently taken out a number of short term loans. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision  but I dont  think  there was anything in the 
history of his bank account or his credit  record that wouldve  led Lloyds to conclude  the loan 
was unaffordable.
Mr Ms bank account seems to indicate  that he had sufficient  disposable  income, after taking  
into account his necessary  expenditure, to be able to make  the monthly payments on this 
loan. And he was within his overdraft limit. The problem  seems to be his non essential 
spending. And he seems  to accept that. 
The checks  a lender should carry out should be proportionate  to the size of the lending and 
the cost of repayment. But we cant say that a lender shouldve done any particular check. It 
seems to me that Mr M met Lloyds lending criteria based on the information available  to it at 
the time.  Banks are entitled to set that criteria  using  commercial judgement and I cant  find 
that Lloyds acted unreasonably  in applying it to Mr Ms application. There were a number of 
small short term loans but looking at Mr Ms account  overall, and his disposable income, I 
dont think this wouldve  been enough for Lloyds to consider  his loan was unaffordable. And 
in any event Mr M paid these off after he was given  the loan.
Ref: DRN24645112But Mr M thinks this lending  was not only unaffordable but irresponsible  and says that Lloyds 
shouldve taken into account his discretionary expenditure  from the conduct of his account. 
I know hell be disappointed when I tell him I dont  agree. 
Irresponsible lending  is whether there is another reason for not giving credit over and above 
the affordability. A customer is entitled to spend his money how he chooses, and it isnt up to 
a bank to monitor  an individuals spending. As Ive already said, Mr M met Lloyds criteria for 
lending. And whilst there were large number of transactions to a particular merchant over the 
period leading up to his application for a loan, Mr M was conducting his account satisfactory. 
So even though Mr M was using money  for certain  websites, the conduct of his account was 
such that I dont think  Lloyds should reasonably have been  aware  that this was a problem for 
him. A bank cant refuse to lend just because a customer  is using his funds in this way. 
Theres no evidence Mr M told Lloyds he had a problem and he wanted  it to help him. I can 
see from Lloyds records that he last made contact in December 2013  and didnt  make  any 
further contact until August  2015.  So I dont think this was irresponsible  lending.
Mr M repaid his previous loan on 30 October  2013. I cant see this would affect Lloyds 
decision to grant his loan application nine months later.
So for all those reasons  I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2464511