K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  Mrs L says 
AXA France  IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background and summary to complaint
Briefly:
In 1996 Mrs L took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying  for a high street store  card 
during a store visit.
The policy provided  protection for Mrs L's store card payments in the event she couldn't  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each  month  and it cost no more  than £1.00  for every £100 Mrs 
L owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs L has told us she was employed as an assistant. She said she 
wasnt entitled to any sick pay (I think its likely she was entitled to some statutory sick pay) 
and didnt have  any other means  she could've used to make her repayments  in the event 
she was unable to work.  Mrs L has said she had a medical condition  many years before  the 
sale.
According to AXA's records, Mrs L paid around £138  in total for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
The adjudicator didn't  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely that Mrs L chose  to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate  it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs L, through her representative disagrees the complaint comes to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mrs L's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs L have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA had to make  it clear that PPI was optional.
Ref: DRN25249272AXA hasnt got a copy of Mrs L's store card application  not surprising given the passage of 
time. Businesses dont  have to keep records indefinitely. But based on what  weve seen 
many times before, the store card application typically  used  around  this time had a separate  
section for PPI, which required a customer to either  tick, or place their signature  in a box to 
take out the cover. This section didnt  say or imply that PPI had to be taken out.
Because Ive not seen anything to persuade  me that Mrs L saw something very different  
when she took out her card and PPI, I think its more  likely than not that she indicated she 
wanted PPI by ticking or signing  the relevant section on her application.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs L knew  the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
the information   
AXA says it didnt recommend or give advice to Mrs L to take out PPI. Mrs L hasnt said 
either way. Looking at what  happened  in this case, Im not persuaded Mrs L was given 
advice - Ive not seen  anything to suggest  that AXA considered Mrs Ls individual 
circumstances and/or recommended she take out PPI.
This means  AXA didnt  have to ensure the cover  was right or suitable for Mrs L. But it did 
have to give her enough  clear  and timely  information  about the policy,  so she could make an 
informed decision about it.
Given the available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave  Mrs L about  
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  For example  I think its unlikely the true cost of 
the cover  was explained and the fact the premiums could attract interest,  or that she was 
clearly told she couldnt  claim  for existing  medical  conditions (subject to time limits.)  
But as I found  above, Mrs L likely chose to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her - for example  Mrs L was eligible for the cover 
and she was in permanent employment.
I can see that Mrs L told us she had a medical condition  in 1967, which required medication. 
But this was the year of Mrs Ls birth.  So its possible that this was only something Mrs L had 
or suffered from in early childhood  shes not said or implied that her condition was ongoing  
and/or it caused  her problems into adulthood. Shes  also not told us that she ever had to 
take time off work because of her condition. So theres no evidence that her condition  
impacted her ability to work.
So in light of the available evidence, Im not persuaded Mrs L wouldve likely thought that her 
condition would be the main reason she need time off work in the future  and need to claim 
on the policy. So I dont  think  better  information  about the existing medical  condition  
exclusion wouldve put her off taking out PPI.
In addition Mrs L wasnt caught by any of the other significant exclusions  and limitations on 
cover, so I think she still had some  good  reasons to take out the cover   it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So overall, I think 
Mrs L wouldve taken out PPI in any event.
Ref: DRN25249273conclusion
While AXA might not have  done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs L PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I think  its likely shed have still gone 
ahead and taken  out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mrs L has lost out as a result of having  PPI, so AXA doesnt have to 
pay back to Mrs L what she paid for PPI.
Mrs Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  These  general  points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly  applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained  the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Ls individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Ls particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2524927