K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled  a subsidence claim 
under her buildings  insurance policy.
background
There is a detailed history  of events going back to 2007 that has led to this complaint. At that 
time, it wasnt  thought  that subsidence was the issue  affecting  the property, but Ms D raised 
a new claim in 2014 (cracks in the property).  UKIs appointed contractors didnt  think  
subsidence was an issue but identified a risk posed by trees in a neighbours garden.  Ms D 
says she engaged work privately to repair the house at a cost of around  £10,000,  and 
£2,000 to remove trees.
However, cracks reappeared, and Ms D made another claim in 2017  which  UKI investigated. 
This time it was thought  subsidence was a possibility and a drainage survey revealed issues 
with underground pipes. Repairs  were  apparently completed in the summer of 2017 and a 
period of monitoring the stability of the house took place until August 2018  when  it was 
considered stability  had been  achieved.
After a meeting  in April 2019 UKI confirmed  it was ready to carry out further repairs, but 
Ms D believed the foundations should  also be inspected, which UKI refused to do. UKI said it 
wasnt necessary and Ms D instructed her own contractor to report. This report  came 
through in November but in October  Ms D had instructed UKI to go ahead  with the repair  
work, and the drains were  repaired shortly  after.
UKI had accepted some responsibility  and said it would  discuss  the redress  it thought was 
fair. But when our investigator looked  into the matter no offer was evident.  He explained that 
poor service had led to a substantial delay and there was confusion  over an excess 
payment. He took into account Ms Ds situation such as a cold house due to gaps between  
brickwork and considered  the delays had a big impact.  So, he said UKI should  pay £2,500 
compensation. UKI had offered to consider Ms Ds costs of around £10,000 in repairing  the 
property in 2014 which the investigator thought was fair. 
UKI agreed  but Ms D didnt on the basis that she wanted considerably more compensation 
to better reflect the living  conditions  shed  suffered  and costs  of around £2,000 to remove 
trees. But the investigator didnt change his mind, and on the tree costs said they hadnt  
been raised with UKI so Ms D would need to complain about that issue  separately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint  there is no issue taken that the way UKI handled the claim ultimately 
caused significant delay in carrying out a lasting and effective repair.  And where things 
currently stand is what amount of money fairly reflects  the impact of the delay on Ms D and 
what amount should fairly be paid to reflect Ms Ds out of pocket costs?
A suitably  qualified contractor inspected Ms Ds property in 2014 and the subsequent report  
gave detailed reasons as to why it wasnt thought that there was subsidence and general 
advice was given.  This included  the removal of conifer trees that were  apparently  situated  on 
Ref: DRN24273182a neighbours  property.  Having considered  the circumstances  at that time and the details 
within the relevant  report, Im not persuaded that UKI did anything wrong.
When issues arose again in 2017  more detailed investigations took place, including  the 
drainage system. And it was here that issues were  found which were impacting the 
movement of Ms Ds home.  The issues were  repaired, and it was eventually concluded that 
the home was stable.  But the reality was that this took a significant period as it was found 
that the drains hadnt been  satisfactorily  repaired.  And further work had to be carried out as 
Ms D contacted UKI in June 2019 to point this out.
More repairs still needed to be carried out and this demonstrates a significant delay of more 
than two years. I can understand  how frustrating  this was for Ms D in addition to the 
expenses she said she incurred in relation  to the claim  in 2014. And when she was 
mistakenly asked to pay an additional excess of £1,000, I appreciate this impacted her 
distress at the entirety of the situation  she was faced. I agree that UKI neither handled the 
claim promptly or fairly  and issues around  the repairs  took too long and needed Ms D to be 
more involved because  of the delays. 
The investigator recommended,  and UKI agreed, £2,500 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience Ms D has experienced.  Ms D wants £20,000 - £25,000  compensation given 
the matter has been  ongoing for years. Having considered this very carefully I think  it only 
became clear that subsidence was an issue in 2017 given previous inspections from 2014  
gave other  valid reasons  for the cracking. But when the drainage was found to be 
problematic and subsidence  an issue  the claim and repairs should have been dealt with 
promptly. But they werent and in fact drainage repairs were  still needed  in 2019. This then 
effectively put on hold other related  repairs and Ms D was living in a home  with significant 
cracks and having  to facilitate and arrange meetings and contact with UKI.
UKI in its own view acknowledged the loss of two years on the claim; further delay because 
of monitoring;  loss of use of rooms in her home; that Ms D had to sleep on the sofa as some 
rooms were out of use; UKI considered  a substantial amount of compensation was 
warranted. UKI considered the impact  on Ms D that, in UKIs words, was evident  in her calls 
and emails, making her vulnerable, and also the fact that given the delays a larger scope  of 
work was now required  because damage had worsened.
It is plainly  evident  that Ms D suffered  a severe amount of distress  and inconvenience  given 
the length of delay because of how UKI handled  the claim. And her living standards  were  
more cramped than they should have been.  Given the length of delay I do think  the impact 
was severe and to reflect  this and the cramped conditions as a result,  Im satisfied £2,500 
compensation is a fair award. 
UKI has agreed to consider Ms Ds expenditure for repairs and work carried  out when it was 
considered the cracking was considered settlement in 2014  rather  than subsidence. The 
investigator pointed  out that Ms D would need to provide receipts  or other evidence  of costs, 
but I havent seen any. That being  said, UKI has agreed to consider those costs  and Ms D 
will need  to provide proof of work  carried out and paid costs. Included  within  this will be the 
tree costs  Ms D has mentioned, subject  to her giving UKI sufficient evidence  of cost and that 
it was related to the advice she was given  in the 2014 claim. 
Regarding Ms Ds own engineer, Im not satisfied that this was a cost she had to incur. Its 
apparent that while UKIs service was poor, at the time Ms D instructed her engineer she 
was in contact  with UKI and there  was no suggestion at that point  UKI wouldnt carry out 
Ref: DRN24273183work. And it was clear what type of work  was required. Ms D was concerned about whether 
the property needed to be underpinned, which UKI said wasnt  required. Having read Ms Ds 
engineers report  theres  nothing new to what UKI had already found, and there was no 
finding by anyone that the property required underpinning. Im not satisfied its fair to require 
UKI to refund the cost of this report.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require U K Insurance Limited to do the following;
Pay Ms D £2,500 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
oUKI must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Ms D accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must  also pay 
interest* on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Consider the evidence Ms D provides in relation to the costs  she says she incurred 
as a result of the 2014 claim. For the avoidance of doubt  this includes the cost of tree 
removal Ms D says she paid
oWhere refunds are made interest* must be added at the rate of 8% a year 
simple from the date the cost was paid to the date the refund is made.
UKI has already  said it will deal with the remaining repair issues  identified  in the 
schedule of works with Ms D and I consider that to be fair. UKI must make  
arrangements within  28 days  of the date on which we tell it Ms D accepts my final 
decision for those repairs  to be carried out in accordance with the schedule of work.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
interest* - if UKI considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, 
it should tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms D a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2427318