K821x#15The complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide), didnt do enough  to help when she 
fell victim to a scam.  She says Nationwide should reimburse her for the money she lost.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 26 February  2021. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out, in detail, the background to this complaint and my 
provisional findings.
In short,  I provisionally  concluded that Nationwides decision not to refund Mrs B for the 
payment of £3,998.75 she made  to the scammer was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I reached this opinion on the basis  that Nationwide followed Mrs Bs instructions to make  the 
payment and I havent seen any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. I also provisionally  
concluded that Nationwide acted in a prompt and timely manner in trying  to recover  the 
funds for Mrs B, but unfortunately no funds remained that could be recovered.
Within my provisional findings,  I also considered  that Nationwide  had provided Mrs B with 
mis-leading information  during its communication with her and this gave Mrs B an 
expectation that her money was to be recovered. This, coupled  with the way Nationwide 
subsequently delivered the opposite outcome to Mrs B, that no funds were actually able to 
be recovered, was severely distressing for Mrs B. And because of this I intended to direct 
Nationwide to pay Mrs B a further £500,  on top of the £150 it offered. This was in recognition 
of the poor service  Mrs B received.
Nationwide responded, agreeing with my provisional  findings  and confirmed it didnt have 
anything further  to add.
Mrs B responded and set out a number of points that she considered  hadnt been  
addressed. 
Ive summarised Mrs B points:
Mrs B considered the first payment was flagged by Nationwide  and that Nationwide  
were trying to contact her by phone and because it couldnt  reach  her, the payment 
went through. Mrs B considers Nationwide should have stopped the payment instead 
of allowing it to go through.
With regards to the telephone call with Nationwide on 27 November 2018, she 
doesnt believe Nationwide told the police of all the details of the conversation she 
had with Nationwide.  Mrs B had said to the adviser she was leaving the house  to 
attend a parents evening. Mrs B says that the police told her that forced entry  is a 
last resort and had they known Mrs B wasnt at home, they would have gone to the 
school to locate  her instead.
Nationwide had the worse and in fact one of the most easy secure system for 
transferring money.  In short, I take from this that Mrs B considers Nationwides  
systems werent preventative in stopping the payment from going through.
Ref: DRN27463442Mrs B considers that fraudulent bank accounts  shouldnt be able to be opened and 
as the recipient bank was a UK based  bank  account   her money should be 
recovered.
Mrs B doesnt understand why UK banks in other identical cases  act differently  and 
that most  cases result in the money  being paid back to the customer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed Mrs B additional  comments in response  to my provisional findings I havent 
seen anything that changes the outcome. I remain  of the opinion I reached within my 
provisional decision.
In reaching my provisional findings and subsequently in reaching  my final decision I have 
considered all the evidence and the testimony presented to me by both parties.  Im sorry that 
Mrs B felt some points werent addressed. I will now address Mrs Bs further comments  in 
response to my provisional  findings.
The first payment
Nationwide, as explained within my provisional findings, stopped the second payment. This 
was because its systems picked up that it was a second payment made in quick  succession 
which indicated the possibility of fraud. So Nationwide stopped  the payment and didnt 
release it until it had verified the matter with Mrs B. As the payment had been  stopped,  then 
when Mrs B informed Nationwide she had been  a victim of a scam, this payment didnt go 
through and was returned. 
But, and importantly, the first payment had gone through   it didnt flag on Nationwides  
systems that Mrs B was potentially at risk of financial harm. If the first payment had flagged 
on Nationwides systems,  it wouldnt have been  released. Nationwide  would have stopped  
the payment until it had verified the payment with Mrs B. 
Nationwide wouldnt have stopped the payment,  tried to contact Mrs B, and if it couldnt get 
in contact with her, choose to release it. The payment simply wouldnt  have  gone  through  
until it had been  able to get in contact with Mrs B.
Nationwide reaching  out to Mrs B regarding the suspicious activity was it contacting  Mrs B 
about the second payment that it had stopped  not the first.       
Ref: DRN27463443The telephone call with Nationwide  on 27 November 2018
As explained within my provisional decision, Nationwide once the threat of suicide had been 
made, and in this case multiple times, during  a very distressing  call, had to take the 
necessary steps  and inform the police.  While  Mrs B subsequently went  to a parents evening  
and wasnt at home when the police attended, the actions  of the police arent  ultimately the 
responsibility of Nationwide. Nationwide had a duty to inform the police  and this was as a 
result of Mrs B threatening to take her own life multiple times.  The threat of suicide cannot 
be taken lightly. Mrs B had said during the call that she will definitely kill herself if the 
problem wasnt sorted that day. It isnt for the call handler to determine whether Mrs B would 
indeed attend  the parents evening or not, but as the threat to take her own life had been 
made, and as Mrs B was also extremely distressed  at the time,  the call handler  took the 
correct actions in informing the police  straight away.  
So I remain  of the opinion that that I dont hold Nationwide  responsible for any damage 
caused to Mrs Bs property by the police when  it attended Mrs Bs property. Nationwide had 
a duty to inform  the police  and it did so. Nationwide are not responsible for the actions the 
police subsequently took in ensuring  Mrs B was ok and not at risk of harming herself.
Nationwides systems regarding transferring money and was it preventative in stopping the 
scam
As explained within my provisional findings, the starting position  at law is that a bank is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make,  in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the customers account. 
Mrs B authorised the payments  and Nationwide carried out Mrs Bs instructions. 
But that isnt the end of the story, firms like Nationwide have certain  obligations to protect 
customers from fraud. So Nationwide should  have had systems in place to look out for 
unusual transactions  or other  signs  that might indicate that its customers  were at risk of 
fraud (among other things). And in some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel  
used, have taken  additional steps, or make  additional checks, before processing  a payment, 
or in some cases declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect  customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
I took the above into account in looking at whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in 
its dealings with Mrs B when she made a payment of £3,998.75, or whether it should have 
done more than it did.
Having done so, I was of the opinion that there  wasnt  anything  unusual or remarkable about 
the first payment or the amount that ought  to have alerted Nationwide to the possibility Mrs B 
was being scammed.  
In this case, Mrs B had enough funds in her account and the payment wasnt clearing or 
emptying Mrs Bs account, which can often be an indicator of a scam. And Mrs B had 
previously made similar large payments. 
All things  considered, I remain of the opinion  that I dont think  there were grounds for 
Nationwide to be suspicious  Mrs B may be a victim of fraud at that time the first payment 
was made.  And I remain of the opinion that the fact Nationwide didnt flag the first payment 
as suspicious was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN27463444And with second  payment, this was stopped.  And this was because  Nationwides systems 
picked up that Mrs B was making a further payment to the same  account in quick  succession 
 which  its systems identified as an indicator its customer may be potentially being scammed  
or at risk of financial harm. 
Mrs B concerns about fraudulent  bank accounts being opened and the recovery of the funds
I considered these particular concerns of Mrs Bs within my provisional decision. For ease, I 
will reiterate what  I said on these particular concerns:
I do understand Mrs Bs frustration and concern that payments simply shouldnt be able to 
be made to fraudulent accounts and these  accounts  shouldnt be able to be opened. The 
recipient bank wasnt Nationwide  but unfortunately, fraudsters are able to set up bank 
accounts that will on the face of it seem genuine  and often it isnt known that it is being  
used to fraudulently  receive funds until a scam is reported. But once reported, banks can 
then implement measures  such as restricting access, blocking payments or closing accounts 
and reporting  the information to the relevant authorities. I note that in this case, the receiving  
bank informed Nationwide that it had restricted the account as soon as it was informed. 
Although I realise  that this will be of little consolation to Mrs B given it still wasnt able to stop 
the funds from leaving  the account.
Nationwide contacted the receiving bank straight after Mrs B had let it know  she had been 
the victim of a scam. Nationwide then sent the receiving bank an indemnity to recover the 
funds. So I am satisfied that Nationwide took the appropriate steps and did so in a timely 
manner. Unfortunately, despite  the receiving bank  blocking the account when informed of 
the fraud by Nationwide,  the funds had in fact already been moved by the fraudster and 
there were no funds that could be recovered. 
Mrs B concern that other customers have  been refunded when  they have been a victim of a 
scam
Within this decision, I cant comment on or speak to the actions of other banks or financial 
institutions  and the decisions  they may or may not make regarding whether they wish to 
issue a customer a refund for any money lost as a result of a scam.
Within this decision I can only look to see whether  Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably  in 
its dealings with Mrs B when she made the payment, and the actions it subsequently took 
when informed of the scam. First, that involved considering whether the payment was 
authorised by Mrs B, and second whether the payment was unusual  and if it was, did 
Nationwide take any additional steps to prevent its customer from being at risk of financial 
harm. And third,  and finally, whether Nationwide acted in a prompt manner in seeking to 
recover any funds when  informed of the scam. 
In this case, I was satisfied that Mrs B authorised  the payments in question and there wasnt  
anything unusual or remarkable about the first payment or the amount that ought  to have 
alerted Nationwide to the possibility Mrs B was being scammed.  Nationwide also took the 
appropriate steps in trying to recover the funds  when  informed of the scam and it did so in a 
timely manner. It was unfortunate that the funds  had in fact already been  moved  by the 
fraudster and there were  no funds  remaining  that could be recovered.
Summary
Ref: DRN27463445Overall, while  I appreciate the outcome  will come as a disappointment to Mrs Bs, 
Nationwides decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I say this because  it followed Mrs Bs instructions to make the payment  and I havent  seen 
any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. Nationwide  also acted promptly  in trying to 
recover the funds,  but unfortunately no funds  remained that could be recovered.
But as set out within my provisional findings, Nationwide  did provide Mrs B with mis-leading 
information. That mis-leading information gave Mrs B an expectation that her money was to 
be recovered. This, coupled with the way Nationwide  subsequently delivered  the opposite  
outcome to Mrs B  that no funds  were actually able to be recovered  was severely  
distressing for Mrs B. Nationwide should pay Mrs B a further £500, on top of the £150 it 
offered, in recognition of the poor service  Mrs B received. Nationwide agreed  with my 
findings on this aspect and agreed with the amount proposed. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision,  Nationwide Building 
Society are not required to refund the payment Mrs B made. 
But I direct  Nationwide  Building Society to pay Mrs B a further £500 on top of the £150 it 
offered as compensation for the distress  it caused her by providing mis-leading information 
about the recovery of the funds. 
So in total,  I direct Nationwide Building  Society  to pay Mrs B £650 for the poor service she 
received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27463446Copy of Provisional Decision
The complaint
Mrs B says Nationwide  Building Society (Nationwide), didnt do enough to help when she fell victim 
to a scam. She says Nationwide  should reimburse her for the money  she lost.
What happened
On 21 September 2018 Mrs B received a voicemail which  she believed was from the HMRC. 
Unfortunately this was a scam. Mrs B called the number  back and was tricked into believing she owed 
money to HMRC and that there  was a pending court case against her. The scammers  directed Mrs B 
to the official HMRC website to confirm that the number they had called from was the official number  
of HMRC. Its likely  that the number was a digit out but Mrs B, due to a number of personal  
circumstances around this time, was in a vulnerable  state  and because of the pressure  at the time 
believed it was a genuine  call and didnt notice the subtle difference. Mrs B subsequently ended up 
making two payments from her account to the scammer under the belief she was paying a genuine 
outstanding tax bill.
Both payments were  made on 21 September 2018.  The first payment  was for £3,998.75 and the 
second payment was for £1,300.
After the call with the scammer,  Mrs B thought something didnt seem quite right.  Mrs B contacted 
HMRC and discovered that she had in fact been scammed and that HMRC wouldnt call and ask for 
money. 
Mrs B contacted Nationwide straightaway  to report the scam and to stop the payments.
Nationwides systems had in fact stopped the second payment. The second payment  had flagged  on 
its systems  as it was a payment that was made to the same account details  as the first and was a 
payment that was made in quick  succession   which it has said is an indicator of a potential  scam.  
But unfortunately the first payment had gone through.
The Nationwide adviser explained to Mrs B that the second payment hadnt gone through and took 
the details of the scam and how it had unfolded. The adviser then checked with a manager  to see if 
the first payment could be refunded. The adviser explained that as Mrs B had authorised the first 
payment, she wasnt eligible  for a refund. The adviser  then explained that Nationwide would try and 
contact the beneficiary  / receiving bank (the bank used  by the scammer)  to see if it could recover the 
money.
Mrs B called later on the same day to see if the funds had been recovered. In this call Nationwide 
explained that it had contacted the receiving bank and was working towards recovering the money  
from the receiving  bank.  The adviser also explained that the receiving  bank had explained that the 
account used by the scammer had been blocked. Nationwide explained  to Mrs B that it can take up to 
21 days for the recovery of the funds to happen and if it wasnt able to recover the money  or if the 
situation changed then Nationwide  would call Mrs B and update  her with what  was happening. The 
adviser then checked to see if Mrs B was ok, as she had been distressed  throughout  the call. Mrs B 
explained that she is concerned that the scammer will empty the account and she wont be able to get 
her money  back.  The adviser explained that the scammers account had been blocked and the 
scammer wasnt able to take out any money and Nationwide were now trying to get Mrs Bs money  
back. Mrs B was reassured  by this news as she had been distraught  at the prospect  of losing so 
much money.
Nationwide sent an indemnity request to the receiving bank for recovery of the funds.
Mrs B called Nationwide again on 27 September 2018 for an update and Nationwide  say Mrs B was 
advised in this call that the money was going to be refunded.  
Ref: DRN27463447Over the course of next month  or so, Nationwide  followed  up its indemnity request to the receiving 
bank but didnt receive a response.
Mrs B called Nationwide during this time and after Nationwide had explained to her that it had sent a 
third chaser  to the receiving bank, Mrs B logged a complaint as she didnt feel Nationwide were  doing  
enough to get her funds back.
The complaint was logged and on 27 November  2018 Nationwide called  Mrs B with its outcome. In 
short, Nationwide explained it had received a response from the receiving bank, and the receiving 
bank had advised Nationwide  that no funds remained  in the account.  So Mrs Bs payment wasnt able 
to be recovered and there  was nothing more it could  do for her and she wasnt due a refund.
This call and the outcome  of Nationwide informing Mrs B that the funds were  not able to be 
recovered, distressed Mrs B severely given she believed  Nationwide were getting her money  back. In 
short, she threatened to take her own life several times throughout the call and accused Nationwide of 
mis-leading her about the recovery of her funds. The Nationwide adviser considered Nationwide 
hadnt done anything wrong and Mrs B hadnt been mis-led. As Mrs B was unhappy  with the outcome 
the adviser explained  the complaint will be escalated and Mrs B will receive further communication 
about her complaint. And as a result of Mrs B threatening to take her own life, the adviser  explained to 
Mrs B that he will be informing the police. Mrs B said that she was going out to a parents evening  but 
again threatened to take her own life later that day if the funds  had not been recovered.
After the call, Nationwide did call the police, and the police did visit Mrs Bs home address. As Mrs B 
wasnt home, the police gained entrance to Mrs Bs property and in doing so caused some damage  to 
the front door and some  damage  at the rear of the property.
Nationwide issued its final response on the matter on 3 December 2018.  It explained  that an 
indemnity had been issued to the receiving  bank, but the receiving bank advised  no funds remained.  
So Mrs Bs funds could not be refunded.
With regards to Mrs Bs concern that she was mis-led  about the recovery of the funds, Nationwide, 
having reviewed the calls did explain that in the call of 27 September 2018 Mrs B was advised  that 
the money was going to be refunded and that her expectations had been raised as a result of this. 
Nationwide also explained  that during the call of 27 November 2018 its adviser had been concerned 
about Mrs Bs wellbeing  and under a duty of care Nationwide passed its concerns  on to the police. 
Nationwide explained while  damage had been caused by the police  this was outside of Nationwides 
control.
Nationwide as a result of its poor service in mis-leading Mrs B around the recovery of the funds, 
offered Mrs B £150 in compensation.
Mrs B declined this offer of compensation and referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint. With regards to the first payment Mrs B had made, they 
didnt think Nationwide ought to have done more to identify the payment as potentially fraudulent  in 
the circumstances. And they also felt Nationwide  couldnt have reasonably  done anymore  to try and 
recover the funds from the receiving bank. They were satisfied Nationwide  had contacted the 
receiving bank straight after Mrs B had informed it that she had become  a victim of a scam, but 
unfortunately no funds remained in the account that could be recovered. So they didnt believe 
Nationwide should refund the £3,998.75 Mrs B lost due to the scam.
Our investigator also concluded that had Nationwide been more empathetic in its call, police 
involvement wouldnt  have  been required. So the investigator considered Nationwides offer of £150 
for mis-leading Mrs B wasnt  enough and that it should pay a further £150 and that it should  also pay 
an additional amount to cover the cost of fixing the damage caused to Mrs Bs property.  
Ref: DRN27463448Mrs B disagreed with the outcome. Mrs B still considered Nationwide should have done  more to 
prevent the loss of her funds and should have taken steps to stop the first transaction. Mrs B also 
considered that the recipient bank was at fault for allowing a fraudulent bank account to be opened. 
Mrs B also advised that she had spent £2,650  on the damage caused to her property.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account  relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the 
time. 
With this complaint, I will first look at whether  Nationwide should have done more  to prevent the 
payment being made and then second, whether Nationwide did enough to recover the money from 
the recipient bank once it was informed that Mrs B had been scammed.  Finally I will then look at the 
information Mrs B was provided with by Nationwide  when she contacted  it about the fraud claim and 
the impact this information had.
The payment
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
customers account. 
It is the case that Mrs B authorised  the payment in dispute. And under  the Payment  Service 
Regulations 2017 (which  are the relevant regulations in place here) that means  Mrs B is responsible  
for the payment.  That remains the case even though Mrs B was the unfortunate victim of a scam.
There are times when I might expect a bank to question a transaction  or payment, even  though it may 
have been properly authorised. Broadly speaking,  firms  like Nationwide have certain  obligations to 
protect customers from fraud.
At the time at the time, I consider Nationwide  should fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter various  risks,  
including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing  of terrorism, and preventing fraud 
and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud  (among other  things). This is particularly so 
given the increase  in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are 
generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used,  have taken additional 
steps, or make  additional  checks, before  processing  a payment, or in some cases  declined to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm 
from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Nationwide  acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs 
B when she made  a payment of £3,998.75, or whether  it should  have done more  than it did.
Ref: DRN27463449Ive thought about this carefully. From  what Ive seen, there isnt anything  unusual or remarkable 
about the payment or the amount that ought to have alerted Nationwide to the possibility Mrs B was 
being scammed. Banks process a high volume of transfers and transactions  each day. And a bank 
has to strike a balance as to when it should possibly intervene  on a payment against not holding up or 
delaying its customers requests. 
In this case, Mrs B had enough funds in her account and the payment wasnt clearing  or emptying 
Mrs Bs account, which  can often be an indicator  of a scam. And Mrs B had previously made  similar  
large payments. I dont think there were grounds for Nationwide to be suspicious Mrs B may be a 
victim of fraud at that time. All things considered,  I think the fact that Nationwide didnt flag the first 
payment as suspicious  was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
With second payment, this was stopped. And this was because Nationwides systems picked up that 
Mrs B was making a further payment to the same account in quick succession  which it says it 
systems identify as an indicator its customer may be potentially being scammed or at risk of financial 
harm. 
I do understand Mrs Bs frustration and concern that payments  simply shouldnt be able to be made  to 
fraudulent accounts and these  accounts shouldnt  be able to be opened. The recipient bank  wasnt 
Nationwide  but unfortunately, fraudsters are able to set up bank accounts  that will on the face of it 
seem genuine  and often it isnt known that it is being used to fraudulently receive  funds until a scam 
is reported. But once  reported, banks can then implement  measures such  as restricting access, 
blocking payments or closing accounts and reporting the information to the relevant  authorities.  I note 
that in this case, the receiving bank informed Nationwide  that it had restricted the account  as soon as 
it was informed. Although I realise  that this will be of little consolation to Mrs B given it still wasnt able 
to stop the funds from leaving the account.
Did Nationwide do enough to recover the funds?
I have also gone on to look at whether Nationwide  acted promptly and in a timely manner in trying to 
seek to recover the funds once it was notified of the scam. 
Nationwide contacted the receiving bank straight  after Mrs B had let it know she had been the victim 
of a scam. Nationwide then sent the receiving bank an indemnity to recover the funds. So I am 
satisfied that Nationwide took the appropriate steps and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, 
despite the receiving bank blocking the account when  informed  of the fraud by Nationwide, the funds  
had in fact already been  moved by the fraudster and there  were  no funds that could be recovered. 
Did Nationwide provide Mrs B with mis-leading information  and what  was the impact?
When Mrs B logged  her fraud claim, Mrs B was provided  with mis-leading information. During the call 
on 21 September 2018,  the call handler   whom I found to be very empathetic and provided  Mrs B 
with a thoughtful  and caring service  unfortunately explained to Mrs B that the scammers  account  
had been blocked and the scammer wasnt  able to take out any money  and that Nationwide were now 
trying to get Mrs Bs money back. 
So Mrs B was of the understanding that her money remained in the recipient bank account, the 
account had been blocked and was told no funds  could  be withdrawn,  and Nationwide were  simply  
going to recover the funds. Given the fact that Mrs B has been distraught that she had been  scammed 
 hearing this didnt only just raise Mrs Bs expectations it in essence confirmed to her that the funds 
were being  recovered. 
This was unfortunately  not the case. Scammers  often move funds  quickly  to prevent  recovery and this 
is what happened  here.
Ref: DRN274634410Nationwide say Mrs B was also informed  that her money was to be refunded in a call on 
27 September 2018. Unfortunately this call wasnt provided to our service  but Nationwide have 
accepted that this mis-leading information was provided  to Mrs B. And I see no reason to doubt this 
was what Mrs B was told.
This level of expectation, in my mind,  led to the phone call of 27 November 2018 taking the course  it 
did. 
When Nationwide called Mrs B to advise that the funds hadnt in fact been recovered and Mrs B 
wasnt going to be refunded, this outcome  alongside  what Mrs B believed was going  to happen 
regarding the recovery of the funds  severely distressed  Mrs B. 
I dont think the Nationwide adviser had prepared  for, delivered or handled this call well. It seems to 
me that the adviser was simply  delivering the outcome  that had been  reached by Nationwides fraud 
team and wasnt aware of Mrs Bs previous  calls, what she had been told about  the recovery of the 
funds and the adviser wasnt  therefore prepared  for Mrs Bs reaction to the outcome.
Ive summarised  some  of parts of this call as it is salient in the reason for the police being called  
which resulted in the police attending Mrs Bs property.
When Mrs B was informed that the funds couldnt be recovered, Mrs B said she was told that the 
money was in the account. At this point Mrs B seemingly had a panic  attack on the phone and also 
started screaming uncontrollably. And Mrs B said that she was going to die and that she was going to 
take her own life and asked who had taken the money. 
The adviser  explained that as Mrs B made the payment to the account, she was unfortunately  liable. 
Mrs B became inconsolable. Mrs B screams to the adviser please dont say this to me, and I want 
my money  and then repeatedly screams no and I am going to die on multiple occasions. The 
adviser then explains there was nothing Nationwide could do for her and that the next steps Mrs B 
should take is to contact action fraud  to which Mrs B said she had done and screams at the adviser 
to not say that. Mrs B again said that she was going to die and was going  to kill herself  and also said 
what have you done.  
As Mrs B had become inconsolable  and had threatened her own life the adviser informed Mrs B that 
he has a duty to inform the police. Mrs B screams,  and then repeatedly screams  dont and I want 
my money  and it was your fault.
Mrs B asks for a manager  and the adviser explained that there  wouldnt be anyone else that can 
assist you with that.  
Mrs B says that it was Nationwides  fault as it had transferred the money and it had not protected her 
account and then repeatedly screams you didnt  in regard to her considering Nationwide  didnt 
protect her account.
The adviser  says that the payment was authorised  by yourself  Im afraid.  Mrs B reiterates that she 
was told that the money remained in the receiving account and that she would get it back. The adviser  
explained that he was sorry Mrs B felt that way. Mrs B asked to speak to someone  with responsibility 
to which the adviser explained I am the person responsible for your complaint. The adviser then 
explains that if Mrs B isnt happy with the outcome it can be escalated  internally, and that Mrs B will 
receive a response  from someone more  senior. 
Mrs B then screams uncontrollably that she wants  her money and please   in reference to helping 
her. Mrs B then says again that she was told that the money hadnt gone (from  the receiving bank 
account) and that she has been told that the bank should  give it to me. 
Ref: DRN274634411The adviser  explained that if someone has been telling  you that it is untrue. Mrs B also says that 
you kept telling me that the money is coming to which the adviser states,  that was not what  was 
said and there was nothing to say that there was money that was coming to you at all at any stage.  
Mrs B says,  yes always  with the adviser saying, who told you that and that we said that we were 
filling out a form, there was nothing that was said about  a refund to yourself. Mrs B says, you did it. 
The adviser  then says we did? I dont believe so.
The adviser  then says that if action fraud or the police  had told her that she would get a refund then 
they had given incorrect information.  Mrs B then asks for the recipient bank account  information  as it 
was too much money to lose. The adviser  explains that he cannot  provide that information  and then 
goes on to say that the police  will be visiting your home just to make sure that you are okay to which  
Mrs B replies no and that she has a parents evening to go to and cannot  stay at home. The adviser 
explains that he has to inform the police.
Mrs B again reiterates that she was told that the money was in the account (still in the recipient bank 
account) to which the adviser says, we wouldnt have told you any information  like that. Mrs B says 
to listen  to the phone calls and that Nationwide had misled  her to which the adviser says that I dont 
believe that you were  mis-lednot by Nationwide  at any time.  The adviser also states that Mrs B has 
to accept that she authorised the payment and is liable for it.
The call at this point switches slightly to the adviser  and Mrs B discussing the service  Mrs B has 
received (as a result of Mrs B considering she has been  mis-led) and that the adviser  hasnt looked 
into that aspect and that he can do so and that he can listen to all the calls Mrs B has previously had.
The adviser  then, in rounding off the call again makes  Mrs B aware that as she has threatened  to 
commit suicide, he has to inform the police. Mrs B says that she is going right now (presumably  to 
the parents evening) but that at night she will definitely kill herself  if the problem  isnt sorted that day.
The issue around  the recipient bank  being  informed about the money  and that the money  had been 
stopped was discussed again.  The call ultimately  ended with the adviser saying that Nationwide will 
look into the service Mrs B has been provided  with. Mrs B again  asks when she will receive  her 
money  with the adviser explaining that he has discussed this aspect. Mrs B again says she was told 
one thing (about the money being stopped) and is now being told something different  and that she 
has been misled and asks to speak to a manager with the adviser explaining that he is the complaint 
handler and no manager  is available. Mrs B again says that she is going  to die with the adviser 
explaining that the will call the police  after the call.
From listening  to the call, and while  I appreciate  it was a difficult call for both parties, the adviser, 
despite Mrs B saying she had been told the money had remained in the recipient account (which she 
had been told by Nationwide in an earlier  call on 27 September 2018), was fairly dismissive of Mrs Bs 
concerns. 
The adviser  in response to these concerns used phrases such  as who  told you that, we said that 
we were filling  out a form, there was nothing that was said about a refund  to yourself,  we did? I dont 
believe so, we wouldnt  have  told you any information like that and I dont believe that you were 
mis-lednot by Nationwide at any time. All of these  confrontational  phrases to Mrs B, in essence 
calling her a liar, were said to her at a time when  she was clearly extremely distressed. And the 
reason Mrs B was so distressed was down to the personal circumstances  she had going  on at that 
time, the fact she had been a victim  of fraud and the outcome she was now hearing form Nationwide 
against the backdrop of what she thought was happening  with the recovery of her funds. And on top 
of that, the Nationwide adviser  hadnt listened  to any of Mrs Bs previous calls about  what she was 
told  but still said the phrases above. The level of service provided  here falls short of what  I would  
expect  and even more  so given the level of distress Mrs B was in.
Ref: DRN274634412Because of this, I am minded to say that I dont  think  Nationwides offer of £150  compensation  for 
mis-leading Mrs B about the recovery of her funds is sufficient. Nationwide agree  it mis-led Mrs B in 
its call of 27 September 2018, but the impact  of that expectation on Mrs B is more significant, 
especially when I consider  the way in which Nationwide  delivered its outcome to Mrs B in its call of 
November 2018. 
I intend  to say that Nationwide should pay a further £500 in addition  to the £150 it offered as 
compensation for the level of service  it provided  Mrs B. 
The damage  to Mrs Bs property
Mrs B did threaten to take her own life and did so on more than one occasion. And I am mindful  that 
Mrs B was inconsolable at points.  While I can understand that our investigator concluded that had the 
adviser handled  the call in a more empathetic way, police  involvement  might not have been 
necessary, meaning the damage to Mrs Bs property may not have come about,  I have to bear in 
mind that Mrs B did threaten to taker her own life and did do so multiple times.  Once the threat  of 
suicide has been made, it cant be taken  lightly.  So I agree with the steps Nationwide  took. Mrs B had 
threatened her own life multiple times. Nationwide  had no other option other than to inform the police.
It follows that I dont hold Nationwide  responsible  for any damage caused to Mrs Bs property by the 
police when it attended Mrs Bs property.  Nationwide  had a duty to inform the police   and it did so. 
Nationwide are not responsible for the actions the police subsequently took in ensuring Mrs B was ok 
and not at risk of harming herself.
Summary
Overall, while  I appreciate Mrs Bs been the unfortunate victim of a scam,  I think Nationwides 
decision not to refund her in this instance was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I say this because it followed Mrs Bs instructions to make the payment and I havent seen any reason 
why it shouldnt have done this. And unfortunately, as the funds had in fact already been withdrawn,  it 
wasnt able to recover  the funds for Mrs B.
But Nationwide did provide  Mrs B with mis-leading information.  That mis-leading information gave Mrs 
B an expectation that her money was to be recovered. This, coupled with the way Nationwide  
subsequently delivered the opposite outcome to Mrs B, that no funds were  actually able to be 
recovered, was severely distressing for Mrs B. And because  of this I intend to direct Nationwide to 
pay Mrs B a further £500, on top of the £150 it offered, in recognition of the poor service  Mrs B 
received.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im currently intending to say Nationwide are not required to refund  the 
payment Mrs B made. But I intend to direct Nationwide  to pay Mrs B a further £500 on top of the £150 
it offered as compensation for the distress  it caused her by providing mis-leading information about 
the recovery  of the funds. So in total,  I intend to direct Nationwide to pay Mrs B £650.
I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision  by 12 March  2021.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2746344