K820x#14complaint
Ms Rs complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) wrongly 
provided information about her motor insurance  claim to solicitors. She said that prejudiced 
her personal  injury claim and she lost thousands  of pounds as a result.  
background
Ms R was involved  in a car accident  with another driver.  LV instructed solicitors  (who Ill call 
L) to act for her in a personal injury  claim.  The solicitors (who Ill call K) acting for the other 
drivers insurer  wrote to LV and asked  it to provide information about  her motor claim under 
section 35(2) of the Data Protection  Act 1998  (DPA).
LV replied  to K answering their questions. Ms R thought this breached DPA. She said LV 
shouldnt have provided any information  and it had prejudiced her personal injury  claim by 
doing so. She said shed  had to accept the £2,000 the other drivers insurer offered her 
instead of the £12,000  to £15,000  she should have got. Ms R said L had told her LV had 
breached DPA.
LV didnt think it had done anything wrong and said this was a usual request between 
insurers. It also said it was obliged to answer  Ks questions. Ms R remained unhappy and 
brought her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator looked into things but didnt recommend Ms Rs complaint be upheld. She 
thought LV had acted fairly in responding to K. She said shed listened to calls between LV 
and L and L said there hadnt been  a DPA breach. She also hadnt  seen  anything  from L to 
show that Ms Rs personal  injury  claim had been affected by the information LV provided.
Ms R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
My role here isnt to decide if theres  been a DPA breach or not. Instead Ive considered 
whether I think its fair and reasonable for LV to have  provided the information and whether 
this caused Ms R a financial loss.
LV provided information to K in 2017 so the relevant legislation here is the DPA 1998. The 
DPA regulates the processing of personal information and requires organisations to keep  it 
secure. It generally restricts the disclosure of personal information to third parties unless an 
exemption applies.
LV told Ms R it had released the information under section  29(3). This wasnt  correct as I 
can see K made its request for information  under section 35(2).  This permits an organisation 
to provide information to another when necessary for the purposes  of legal proceedings 
(including prospective legal proceedings), obtaining legal advice, and otherwise upholding 
legal rights. 
Ref: DRN27502912LV said it was obliged  to answer  Ks questions  but DPA only permits it to provide 
information it doesnt oblige it to. So I think LV could have better explained to Ms R why it 
answered Ks questions. And I think it would have been helpful  for it have initially  been 
clearer about the correct section of the act it had disclosed it under. 
Ms R said her solicitor had advised her LV had committed a serious DPA breach. But Ive 
listened to calls between  LV and L. L thought it would have been better for the request to 
have been passed to him and he expressed  concerns that LV had replied without checking 
with Ms R. But also said no when LV asked  if he thought theyd breached DPA. 
LV thought  it would  be beneficial to Ms R for it to answer Ks questions as shed made the 
personal injury claim over a year after the accident. It said its usual practice between  
insurers and didnt think the information it provided should have impacted on Ms Rs 
personal injury claim as it was factually  correct. I dont think LV was obliged to answer  Ks 
questions but Im satisfied  that in this particular  case it was reasonable for it to do so. And 
even if I accepted it shouldnt have provided the information, Im not persuaded this caused 
Ms R a financial  loss.
Ms R said she lost over £10,000  as she had to take a settlement offer due to the information 
LV provided K. But I havent seen anything to support  this other than her comments.  In fact 
in the call between  LV and L, L confirmed  he was satisfied  LV hadnt provided  anything that 
should affect Ms Rs claim and he said he was happy to go ahead and take the matter  to 
court. So, I dont think its likely LV prejudiced  Ms Rs personal injury claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Ms R was hoping for. But when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint Im not going to ask LV to do anything 
further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN2750291