K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Phoenix  Wealth Services Limited caused  a delay in transferring her 
personal pension  to Standard Life. She said her pension fund suffered financial loss 
because of the delay.
background
Mrs B transferred her pension fund from Phoenix  Wealth to Standard  Life. But there was a 
mistake in the transfer details, and Standard Life couldnt reinvest the fund straight  away. 
Mrs B says she missed out on a rise in the markets while her money wasnt invested.
Our adjudicator concluded that Phoenix  Wealth was responsible for the delay in the fund 
being invested. He found that Phoenix Wealth had quoted an incorrect  reference number on 
the CHAPS transfer  form, and included it in the wrong section of the form. The adjudicator 
considered it was this error that had prevented  Standard Life from promptly  investing  the 
money.
Phoenix Wealth didnt  agree  with the adjudicators conclusions, so the complaint was passed  
to me.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 5 September  2019. I said I didnt intend 
to uphold the complaint. Ive summarised  my provisional findings below:
-Phoenix Wealth had provided a copy of the CHAPS transfer confirmation received 
from its bank,  showing  the details Phoenix Wealth had included  in the transfer  
instructions were correct.
-But there was another CHAPS payment document, which  I understood was received 
by Standard Life. The beneficiary reference number  on that document  was incorrect.  
Phoenix Wealth had also been  told that the number was quoted  in the wrong place 
on the instructions.
-When Phoenix Wealth became  aware of the discrepancies between the
CHAPS documents,  it tried to find out what had happened. Having looked at the 
enquiries that were  made, I thought it was likely that when Standard  Lifes
bank received the money, the large amount meant it was put into a suspense 
account. It was possible  that when the money  was moved from that account, the 
reference number  error  was made  at that stage. But Phoenix Wealth wasnt  involved 
at that point.
-On the basis of the available evidence, I wasnt able to safely  conclude
that Phoenix Wealth was responsible for the incorrect reference number received by 
Standard Life. So I at that stage I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
find Phoenix Wealth responsible for the loss suffered by Mrs Bs pension  fund while  it 
wasnt invested.
Mrs B responded to say, in summary, that:
-Phoenix Wealth hadnt entered the reference  number in the correct  position on its 
instructions to Standard Life. 
Ref: DRN24438082-Phoenix Wealth sent the cash incorrectly  referenced  with Mrs Bs policy  number, 
rather than Standard Lifes reference number.
-Phoenix Wealth had altered its procedures for transferring  funds, which Mrs B 
considered was acknowledgement that its previous systems  could cause problems 
for receiving schemes.
-She maintained  that the problems  arose  because Phoenix Life didnt  provide  
Standard Lifes  reference number in the correct format on the transfer instructions. 
Phoenix Wealth didnt  make any further representations in response to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again carefully at all of the evidence provided in connection with Mrs Bs transfer. 
Ive also noted  everything Mrs B has said in response to my provisional decision.
I accept that Phoenix  Wealth  may not have included Standard  Lifes  reference number in 
exactly the same position on the instruction form as requested by Standard Life. But Im still 
not persuaded that was the cause of the delay in investing Mrs Bs money. Thats  because  
even though the number  may not have been in the right position on the form, the correct 
reference number  was used. Although the reference number wasnt very clear on the copy of 
the CHAPS payment document,  this was confirmed  by Phoenix Life in its letter  of 6 April 
2018.
Phoenix Life has also provided an example of another instruction to Standard  Life that was 
in the same format  as Mrs Bs, and which it says was successful. So it seems that Standard  
Life had in other cases been  able to identify their reference number in the different field,  
even though it may not have been  where  it was expected. 
Ive also reconsidered  extracts from Standard  Lifes records, when it was trying to identify 
Mrs Bs payment. 
It seems  the money was received from Mrs Bs pension fund and I note there was a 
suspense number showing  in Standard  Lifes records. I appreciate theres a difference of 
opinion here,  but this suggests to me it was held in suspense, if not necessarily moved  to a 
different account,  while Standard Life made enquiries.
But I dont in any case think  that that particular  aspect  is central  to whether the complaint  
succeeds. My view is that it was the incorrect D number received by Standard  Life which  
caused the delay in reinvesting the pension funds. Importantly, I note that the D reference 
number showing on Standard Lifes enquiry records was completely different to Mrs Bs D 
reference number.  I understand that this did relate  to a different customer. 
So from what Ive seen,  I think its likely that incorrect details contributed to the delay in 
investing Mrs Bs money. But I still dont  think I can safely say that Phoenix Wealth  was 
responsible for that. At no point on the CHAPS  or Origo transfer records completed  by 
Phoenix Life does  that different D reference  number appear. And so whilst it must have 
Ref: DRN24438083been added  at some point  in the process, the available  evidence  doesnt support the 
position that it was Phoenix Life which did so. 
It may have entered the D number in a different field, but it was nevertheless the correct 
reference number,  and as Ive already said, Standard Life was able to successfully process 
this type of format  in other instances.
I understand Phoenix Wealth  has changed a number of its systems, but not just its process  
for completing Standard Life instructions. So I dont consider this point  means Phoenix 
Wealth has accepted  its previous  process  created problems investing  with Standard Life.
Overall, Im not persuaded theres  enough  evidence to show  Phoenix Wealth  made the error 
that caused the delay  in investing  Mrs Bs pension monies. So I dont consider it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2443808