K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) to him alongside a loan in 2001.  
background
In 2001, Mr P borrowed £4500 from HSBC  to buy a car. The term of the loan was three  
years. At the same time, he was sold PPI cover.  This was a single premium policy,  which 
meant he had to borrow extra on top of the loan to pay for PPI. He also had to pay interest 
on that extra part of the loan. The total cost of the premium including interest was £706.81. 
In his complaint,  Mr P told us that he didnt know he had a PPI policy.  He said he wouldnt 
have agreed to the cover if hed known about  it. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint  
should be upheld.  
Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicator and he set out some detailed reasons why. In 
summary, he said he was a first time borrower and was nervous  when  taking the loan out. 
He said he would have  been able to make payments towards his loan from savings if hed 
lost his job. He did not accept that the cost of the policy had been made clear to him. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr P has told us. After doing  so, Im afraid I havent 
upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below.  
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr P during a meeting in an HSBC branch. I cant  
know what was said during that meeting.  So to help me decide whats  likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mr P remembers about the sale.  And Ive also considered the 
paperwork HSBC sent to us from the time of the sale. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr P would have known PPI was optional and 
he didnt have to buy it if he didnt want it. I know Mr P feels  strongly that PPI was added 
without his knowledge. I dont doubt that what he told us is what he honestly remembers  
about what happened when PPI was sold. But I also have to take into account that its 
difficult to remember precisely what happened such a long time ago. 
Looking at the paperwork, I can see the PPI is set out separately on the loan agreement. 
Theres a box with the cost of the loan, including interest at the top of the agreement. 
Underneath that is another section which deals with PPI and shows  the total cost of the 
policy. The total cost is also broken  down  to show the premium  cost and the amount of 
interest that would be paid. I can also see that Mr P had to sign a separate  document to say 
that he wanted PPI. So although I appreciate  Mr P doesnt now remember,  I think  at the 
time, he probably knew hed bought a PPI policy. I think the wording on the documents  is 
sufficiently clear to show that PPI was optional. So it follows that I think the person selling 
the cover  would have  also made that clear.  Ultimately, given the weight of evidence,  I cant 
say that PPI was added to the loan without Mr Ps knowledge. 
Ref: DRN28626712Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a higher test for HSBC to satisfy because  it then 
had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ps needs. To help me decide whether it was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought  about 
what Mr P told us about his personal circumstances at that time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the policy,  Mr P would have been covered for 
up to three  years if hed become unwell. If he was made redundant, his loan repayments 
would have been paid for up to 12 months. 
Mr P told us that he would  have  received  statutory  sick pay from his employer.  He also told 
us he had savings  worth between six and 12 months  of his salary.  I havent seen any 
evidence of Mr Ps savings. Its not entirely clear  to me why he would have  taken this loan 
with HSBC if he had savings for considerably  more  than that amount. But even if I accept 
that Mr Ps savings were  at that level, the PPI would have covered Mr P for up to three 
years. It follows that I find the PPI would have  covered Mr P for longer than the existing 
means he had in place. 
Mr P also told us that his family members would  have  been able to help him out if hed lost 
his job. And I dont doubt that it would have  been  their intention to do so. But circumstances 
can change and theres no guarantee that assistance would have been available to Mr P as 
and when he needed it. 
I can see from the documents that if Mr P cancelled the policy  early,  he wouldnt have got a 
pro rata refund. What  that means  is that if he cancelled the policy half way through the loan, 
although hed have got some refund, he wouldnt  have got half of his money back. So that 
would be important if HSBC should have known  that he was likely  to cancel the policy before 
the end of the loan. 
But I dont think HSBC  should have necessarily thought that Mr P would cancel early.  He 
told us this was the first loan hed taken out, so it doesnt look as though he had a propensity  
to refinance. And the loan was for a car, which  wouldnt have suggested  to HSBC that he 
was likely to pay it off before the end of the term. 
Mr P told us that he was in good health at the time he bought the PPI, so I dont think hed 
have been affected by any of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent 
seen anything unusual  about his circumstances  that would have stopped  him from making  a 
successful claim  if he needed to. 
With all of that in mind,  I think the policy probably was suitable  for Mr Ps needs. 
Even so, HSBC still had to give Mr P enough information about the cover so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  That information had to be fair, clear and 
not misleading. Mr P is adamant that the cost wasnt made  clear.  But as I said above, I think 
the PPI was set out separately on the loan agreement and Mr P would have reasonably  
known the cost of the policy and the cost of the associated interest. 
Its still possible that HSBC didnt tell Mr P everything it should  have done. So the question  
for me now becomes whether he would have acted  differently if hed been given all of the 
information about the cover. But Ive set out above how I think the PPI could have been 
helpful for Mr P if hed been out of work. The cost is comparable to other policies that were 
available at that time. And although I appreciate  he doesnt now remember, I think he 
Ref: DRN28626713probably chose  this policy at the time  so it looks as though he wanted this type of cover.  
On that basis, I dont think more or better information  would  have put him off buying this 
policy. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr P, but after considering all of the evidence  before  me, I 
havent upheld  this complaint. I dont need  to ask HSBC to take any more action in relation 
to it. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank  Plc. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 20919.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862671