K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  about the administration of her online wrap account  by Aviva Life and 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva).  Ms K complains  she has been unable  to obtain an accurate 
statement of her investments since July 2018. She says there is no correlation between  the 
figures provided online on the customer  interface  and the trends shown by the individual 
fund performance sheets. Ms K says she has no confidence that Aviva  understands the 
exact value of her funds.
She also complains that the charges shown on her account are inaccurate. In addition Ms K 
complains that Aviva  has failed to provide  her with a tax certificate for the year 2017-2018.
background
I issued a provisional decision (attached) in September 2019 in which I outlined the 
background to this case. That document forms a part of this decision. I concluded that Aviva 
should pay some further compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms K and it 
should provide  her with an accurate statement setting  out the value of her plan. But I didnt 
think it was fair and reasonable for the fees to be waived. 
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.  It said there were  ongoing issues  and initially it said 
it was still working on the annual  pension  statement. Aviva  provided a summary of all the 
deposits received  on Ms Ks pre-retirement account (from end of August 2017  to beginning 
of December 2019) which  it said was to assist with her financial planning. It also said a 
statement for the last quarter (June  to September  2019) had been uploaded and could be 
viewed by Ms K on the My Aviva  app.
Mrs K disagreed with my conclusions. Ms K said I had misunderstood her complaint as she 
wasnt looking for financial recompense  but wanted a resolution where Aviva provided the 
correct details for her wrap account  both online  and via written communications. 
She said she wasnt complaining about the availability of the information on the online portal  
but the fact it wasnt accurate. Ms K said the calculations Aviva had carried  out on the 
information it received  from third parties  were  incorrect. She pointed out these issues  had 
been ongoing from some  14 months.  
She raised  some further questions about the accuracy of the online information and pointed 
out discrepancies. 
Ms K reiterated that she still hadnt been provided  with a correct annual  pension statement 
from 2018.
She also said that although  there  had been a number of updates  to the website none  of 
those updates had addressed the issues  she had reported.
Further information was made available to Ms K on the online account and Ms K was also 
provided with the list of deposits received in her pre-retirement account. 
Ref: DRN21209832Mrs K accepted that the information contained in the summary of deposits received 
appeared to be correct  although it wasnt set out like a statement. She raised a number of 
further points  about  the available information  including the content  and format of the 
quarterly statements now available on her online  account. She asked why the charges 
breakdown only appeared  on one of those quarterly statements. Ms K also complained she 
hadnt been notified those  statements were available. 
We asked Aviva for some further information.  Aviva said it was now providing  quarterly 
online statements rather than an annual statement as per the requirements bought in by the 
MIFID II directive  (which  came into force on 3 January  2018).  It said it was intending to 
provide any missing quarterly statements for the period from 3 January 2018  onwards but 
there would be no further annual  statements. Aviva  said this was because it had to 
concentrate its resources on providing the quarterly regular statements.
Aviva confirmed that unfortunately that meant  there would be a gap in Ms Ks statements 
between the end of August 2017  and the beginning of January 2018. The first quarterly 
statement (in time) to be issued would be the one for 2 March 2018.
Aviva said there was no alert as such to notify  Mrs K that the quarterly statements were 
available but there  was a notifications section in the top right hand corner of the screen on 
the My Aviva  app. It said Ms K could go into the notifications section and view the quarterly 
statements from there.
Aviva confirmed it was required to provide a break down of the charges on an annual  basis  
which was why that break down had only appeared on one of the quarterly statements. It 
said the next break down of the charges  would  be in September 2020. 
 
It confirmed that following  the points raised by Mrs K it had checked the quarterly statements 
and it was satisfied  they are correct and complete. 
It provided a copy of the tax certificate for 2017  to 2018 which it said had been  uploaded  in 
November 2018.
Ms K reiterated that she still didnt have an accurate annual statement from September  
2018. She said that the online information;  such  as the quarterly statements and the tax 
certificate, was very difficult to locate. Ms K also complained that the information in the 
quarterly statements was not set out clearly. 
Ms K said the gap in her statements was unacceptable and must  be in contravention  of 
previous requirements  in place before the quarterly statements  were  introduced.  
Ms K pointed out that her tax certificate was provided about eight months late and had been 
difficult to locate. She asked when  the missing quarterly statements would be made  
available. She also asked whether she would receive a yearly cost breakdown  for the year 
ending September  2018.
Ref: DRN21209833my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the representations 
received in response to my provisional decision,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the same  view for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, a copy  of which 
is attached, and forms part of this final decision,  together with the reasons set out below.
I take into account that Aviva has recently provided Ms K with a record  of deposits received 
on her pre-retirement account and two quarterly statements  that provide an up to date value 
of her pension. 
Aviva has said it cannot provide an amended  annual  pension  statement to correct the 
incorrect one issued  in September 2018.  It has said it will provide any missing quarterly 
statements with the first quarterly statement being the one for 2 March  2018. So 
unfortunately there will be a gap in the statements provided to Ms K. Ms K understandably  
is unhappy about this and says it is unacceptable. 
I note Aviva has also provided a breakdown of the charges in a recent quarterly statement 
and said that Ms K will now receive a breakdown of charges on an annual basis. 
I also note that Aviva  didnt provide Ms K with a tax certificate for the year 2017/2018 until 
November 2018.
I can see that progress  has now been made to provide Ms K with accurate  information about 
her pension plan although Ms K has had to wait for a considerable amount of time. It is 
regrettable that Ms K wont receive  an amended annual statement for 2018 and the quarterly 
statements wont cover  all of that period. But I dont  think Aviva is being  purposely unhelpful 
to Ms K. I think  the difficulty is that this is a significant issue  affecting  a number of customers 
so Aviva is concentrating its resources on the most pressing issues  such  as up to date 
quarterly statements. Although I appreciate that isnt much  comfort for Ms K who quite  
reasonably would like all her statements. 
I note Ms K says that Aviva is failing  to comply with the requirement to provide an annual  
pension statement as it has only provided an inaccurate statement which  states she made  
no contributions. I cant force Aviva to produce something which it says its simply unable  to 
do. But I can compensate Ms K for any financial loss and the trouble and upset caused up to 
this point by its failures. And if Ms K was still of the view that funds were  missing, Id be able 
to ensure that this was rectified.  Although it seems Ms K now accepts that the record  of 
deposits is correct.
I do acknowledge there is still missing information which  should  have  been  available  to Ms K 
sometime ago. But I consider Ms K now should have sufficient information to carry out her 
financial planning and will in due course  have further information that should provide her with 
a fairly  detailed record of the value and performance  of her pension  plan during 2018 and 
2019. This should hopefully also assist Ms K with any obligations she may have to complete 
a tax return.
Ref: DRN21209834We have tried to obtain more information  for Ms K in relation to the issues she has raised  but 
ultimately a number of these issues are still ongoing, so time frames  for resolution arent 
certain. 
Theres a limit to what I can require Aviva to do  and this is to tell Aviva that its statements 
need to be accurate and issued in a timely  fashion. If it says that they are accurate, as it now 
does, but Ms K considers  that errors are still being made or there are omissions of figures 
which Aviva  is required  to provide, she can refer a complaint back to us. And if we agree,  we 
can make  further awards  and ultimately  if we agree that errors  are continuing to be made,  
refer the matter to the regulator. And this latter course of action  is one which is in any case  
open to Ms K.
Overall, given the amount of time that has passed and the impact on Ms K I remain of the 
view that £350  is insufficient compensation in the circumstances.  I consider Aviva  should 
pay Ms K a further £200 in compensation. Aviva should also provide the missing  quarterly 
statements from 2018 together with a costs breakdown  for the relevant period  as per the 
requirements of the MIFID II directive.
Finally, its worth reiterating that Aviva has confirmed that there would be no charge for 
transferring this pension  to another provider. If Ms K feels that the relationship  between  her 
and Aviva has broken  down and/or  has lost faith in Avivas ability to provide her with 
accurate and timely information, transferring to a different provider is of course  an option 
available to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that Ms Ks complaint against  Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited is 
upheld in part and it must pay Ms K a further £200  in compensation as outlined in this 
decision. It should also provide the missing  quarterly statements as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN21209835Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms K complains  about the administration of her online wrap  account  by Aviva Life and Pensions UK 
Limited (Aviva). Ms K complains she has been unable to obtain an accurate statement  of her 
investments since July 2018.  She says there is no correlation between the figures provided online on 
the customer  interface  and the trends shown  by the individual  fund performance sheets. Ms K says 
she has no confidence that Aviva understands the exact value of her funds.
She also complains  that the charges shown on her account are inaccurate. In addition Ms K 
complains that Aviva has failed to provide her with a tax certificate  for the year 2017-2018.
background
In January 2018 Aviva  launched an upgraded online  platform. In July 2018 Mrs K examined her online 
account and found that the information presented there did not correlate  with the trends shown by the 
individual fund performance sheets. She also received an annual statement  in September 2018 which 
was incorrect  as it stated no money had been paid into her pension in the last 12 months. Ms K said 
this was incorrect as she had made regular monthly payments and transfers into her pension.
Ms K complained  to Aviva  about  the information  presented on her online account  and the incorrect 
statement. She also complained the charges on her account were incorrect  and that she had not 
received a tax certificate  for the year 2017/2018
Aviva upheld  Ms Ks complaint. It apologised and said unfortunately there had been some difficulties  
following the upgrade of its online platform. It said it was dealing with these issues  as a matter of 
priority but Aviva was unable to say when they would  be resolved.  Aviva accepted that Ms K had 
been caused  trouble and upset and paid £200  in compensation.
Aviva said the charges  showing on Ms Ks account were  correct but they looked  different because the 
time period  for calculating the charges had changed. It said that over time the same  amount of 
charges would be paid. However Aviva said the adviser charges had stopped since June 2018. It said 
it would discuss this with Ms Ks adviser.
Ms K was unhappy with the compensation offered. She felt that the issue was still unresolved and 
Aviva should reimburse her for the charges she had paid.
The adjudicator considered the complaint and felt that the trouble and upset award  should  be 
increased by a further £150.  She noted Aviva  had said in its final response letter that it would  provide 
Ms K with an amended statement of her pension  together with a statement  of her contributions but it 
still had not done so. The adjudicator felt Ms K had been  caused further trouble  and upset  by this and 
because she still not been able to access the true value  of her investments online, meaning  shed had 
to contact Aviva each  time to find out information.
The adjudicator also said the consumer shouldnt  pay any transfer fees should  she wish to transfer 
her investments to another provider.
The adjudicator felt that administrative  fees charged by Aviva on Ms Ks account since July 2018 
should be reimbursed and paid into Ms Ks account. She also said any future fees should  be waived 
until the problems  with her online account were resolved.
Aviva agreed  to pay a further £150 to Ms K for the trouble and upset caused.  Aviva confirmed  that it 
didnt charge  transfer  fees. But it didnt agree with the adjudicators view regarding the fees. It said
Ref: DRN21209836The charges Aviva  take are to administer all the policies and investments we hold and cover potential  
changes to the cost of any fund management, changes in taxation or regulation  across the whole 
platform.
Aviva said it would be unfair to other customers to waive Ms Ks fees.
As no agreement could  be reached  the complaint  was referred to an ombudsman for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ms K has an online wrap account with Aviva.  The Aviva Platform is described in the terms and 
conditions as follows:
Aviva Platform means the online portfolio  management service provided  by Aviva, including the 
provision of transaction and administration facilities for Your Investment  Portfolio.
It also says:
21. Aviva Platform
You will normally be able to view Your Investments  24 hours a day via Our Online Service.  There may 
be occasions however, when this is not possible. For example, if We suspend  services for repair, 
maintenance, blackout/outage for migration,  or for reasons beyond Our control.
In the event  that You are unable to access  Our Online  Service You can contact Us by telephone on 
any Business  Day on 0800  068 2170.
Investment data is supplied to Us by third parties. All figures are in Sterling unless otherwise stated 
and are based  on the information  supplied  to Us and accepted in good faith. Whilst  We make every 
effort to ensure  the accuracy of information  posted on Our Online Service  and communicated to 
Clients We cannot accept responsibility or be held liable  for any inaccuracies or errors which  may 
subsequently lead to loss.
Ms K has been able to access  the online service but the difficulty is that since July 2018 some of the 
information shown there has been inaccurate. Avivas terms and conditions provide that it isnt liable 
for any loss that may occur as a result  of any inaccuracy  of data supplied by third parties. But the 
information which Ms Ks said has been wrong  isnt related to this- the detail  relating to charges and 
missed contributions is in Avivas control. As it happens, in this case, Ms K hasnt said that the 
inaccurate information provided has caused her any financial loss.
However it is clear  that Ms K has received  poor customer  service from Aviva.  Ms K has been unable  
to access  accurate information online since July 2018. She has been provided  with an inaccurate 
annual statement that didnt recognise  the contributions shed made to her pension  over the 
preceding 12 months. Aviva  also hasnt  provided Ms K with a tax certificate for the year 2017/2018.
So I can understand  why Ms K is frustrated  by the issues with her online account and doesnt feel 
confident that Aviva  has a clear and accurate  account of the value  of her funds.
Ref: DRN21209837Ms K has a significant amount of money invested with Aviva in her Self-Invested  Pension Plan (SIPP), 
stocks and shares ISA and personal  savings. So I appreciate these issues must  have caused,  and 
continue to cause her trouble and upset.
Aviva accepted at an early stage that there was a problem. It said:
The trends  showing incorrectly on the client reports, has been  a major issue  for us, and we are 
working closely with our service provider with a view to resolving this issue.  As of yet we have  no 
timescale for when  this will be resolved.
Aviva has agreed  to pay a total of £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Ms K. But 
unfortunately it still hasnt been able to resolve  these issues for Ms K.
Ms K says that Aviva  should reimburse her charges.  The adjudicator has also said it should  also 
waive any future  charges until the problems  are resolved.
Aviva disagrees  and says its charge  is there to cover a number of costs involved with administering  
policies and investments.
The charge is described in following part of the terms and conditions:
Aviva charge
This is deducted on a monthly basis and is calculated  on a daily basis as a percentage of the 
average ISA Portfolio value on each day including  any new money  allocated  but not yet cleared  in 
Your Cash Account (We reserve the right to vary this).
The charge is calculated based on the value  of all the assets in Your ISA Portfolio.  For further 
information, please see Your illustration  for the charge rate applicable  and Your transaction  history for 
the actual charge.
The platform  is described  as an online  portfolio  management service. I think that access to accurate 
information online is one aspect of that service but isnt something that is guaranteed at all times 
under the terms  and conditions. I also accept that there are technical issues which are currently 
preventing this from happening and I note Aviva has said it is trying to resolve these  issues as a 
matter of priority. I understand these issues are affecting other  Aviva customers and are not restricted  
solely to Ms K.
In order  to conclude that Ms Ks charges should be reimbursed I would  have to consider that she was 
receiving no service at all, or so little service as to render  it of no use. But that is not the case  here as 
Aviva is still holding and managing her investments,  it is still applying her payments and there is still 
the facility to carry out transactions. Ms K is also able to contact  Aviva directly  to obtain information  
about her account.
I appreciate this is a frustrating and concerning  situation for Ms K. But, I am not persuaded that it 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  to reimburse her charges or waive future charges. 
It would be impossible  to assess, for example,  how far into the future any problems might run. I think 
the best way of resolving  this is to compensate Ms K for the problems experienced to date, and to 
give Aviva  an opportunity to put things right  see further commentary below. If this fails to happen, 
Ms K can of course then complain about any further issues she encounters  and brings those 
complaints to us if shes dissatisfied with the response or actions  of Aviva.
And so thinking about what has happened to date, and what Aviva  needs to do to put things right, I 
am aware that Aviva told Ms K almost a year ago that it would  provide her with an accurate  amended 
Ref: DRN21209838statement of her pension and a record of her contributions and it still hasnt done so. In addition the 
issue with her online  account still hasnt been resolved. So given the amount  of time that has passed 
and the impact on Ms K I dont think £350 is sufficient compensation in the circumstances. I consider 
Aviva should pay Ms K a further £200 in compensation. I also would reiterate the adjudicators 
request that Aviva must provide Ms K with an accurate  statement setting out the value of her plan.
I note that Ms K originally complained about  the charges on her account as she felt they were 
inaccurate. Aviva has explained in its final response letter  that this was due to a change in the timing  
of the calculation  point  of charges and I accept that explanation. So, I dont intend to uphold that part 
of the complaint.
I also note that Aviva  has confirmed that it doesnt charge transfer fees should  Ms K wish to transfer 
her funds to another provider. And although I dont think Ms K should  need to transfer to ensure  she 
receives accurate and up to date information, this is nevertheless a course of action which  is open to 
her.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Ms Ks complaint against Aviva Life and UK Pensions Limited should 
be upheld in part and Aviva should pay Ms K a further £200 for the trouble and upset caused. It 
should also provide Ms K with an accurate pension statement.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2120983