K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) wouldnt pay for a replacement 
central heating boiler after he called on BGI under his home emergency insurance policy,  its 
engineer damaged his existing boiler, and it couldnt  be repaired.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 September  2019, a copy of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.  
BGI accepted my provisional decision. Mr C didnt respond to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr C nor BGI has provided any fresh information or evidence in response  to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision before      
8 December 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20966502COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 13 SEPTEMBER 2019
complaint
Mr C complains that British  Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI)  wouldnt pay for a replacement central  
heating boiler after he called on BGI under his home emergency insurance  policy, its engineer 
damaged his existing boiler, and it couldnt be repaired.
background
In June 2018  Mr C booked an appointment with BGI to carry out the annual service for his central  
heating boiler. BGIs engineer attended  and advised that a new diverter valve was required.  
The engineer returned  the next day. However  in the course of trying to undo the nuts holding the 
valve to the boiler, the connecting pipe sheared off. Having checked online,  the engineer said that 
because of the age of the boiler a replacement  part was no longer available. So BGI said Mr C would 
have to buy a replacement boiler.
Mr C complained to BGI. He said that instead of using  a spanner of the correct  size on the nuts the 
engineer had used what Mr C described as gland nut pliers. Mr C didnt think they were the proper 
tool for the job and that was why the connecting pipe had sheared off.
He was now faced with paying some £3,000 to replace his boiler. As the damage was caused by 
BGIs engineer, he thought  BGI should  meet the cost of this, and should compensate  him for the 
holiday he had had to cancel and the inconvenience  he had suffered.
BGI didnt accept his complaint. It said its engineer was experienced and had used the same tool for 
this job on various occasions  in the past without issue. It thought  that for the part to break  as it had 
done, it would have to have been in poor condition. So BGI wasnt responsible  for the boiler becoming  
irreparable.
Mr Cs complaint had been reviewed by its service manager and its senior customer  manager who 
were both of the same view.  So BGI said it wouldnt accept liability  for the costs of replacing the 
boiler. It did pay Mr C £50 as a goodwill  gesture  because of the stress  and inconvenience he had 
suffered.
Mr C didnt accept this and complained to us. He produced a report  from a plumbing and heating  
engineer, whom Ill call P, which Mr C said supported his view that BGIs engineer was responsible  
for the broken  part. The relevant part of his report  is as follows:
On arrival I found the boiler to be isolated and drained  down with a broken  union connection pipe 
from boiler diverter valve assembly which was sheared off. This part was unobtainable spare  which  
meant the boiler was not repairable.  In my time as a plumbing and heating engineer which is over 30 
years I have replaced many diverter valves on older boilers which  I use a spanner on the unions with 
no issues as pipe grips  can slip on union nuts and round off flat edges off the nuts so pipe grips are 
not advisable. In my professional opinion  due to the breaking of the part Mr + Mrs C had to replace 
the boiler sooner than they had anticipated and certainly  sooner than they had planned for.
In response, BGI said its field team believed  that the part would  have broken whoever replaced it as it 
had become brittle  due to wear and tear over time. Whilst another tool could have possibly been 
used, the engineer was the expert  and would  use the tool he felt fit for the job.
This engineer  had replaced the part in question using the same tool for other customers  multiple 
times without any issues. So BGI didnt  believe  the tool used was the cause; it was the condition of 
the part that meant  it broke.
Ref: DRN20966503BGI pointed  out that the work history for this boiler showed that since 2014 it had been advising Mr C 
to consider purchasing  a new boiler due to the age and efficiency of his appliance,  but he had 
declined a quotation. (In its renewal letter in May 2018  BGI also reminded Mr C that the manufacturer  
had stopped  making his model of boiler and some parts were becoming difficult  to source.)
Our investigator said BGI and P didnt agree  on why the part failed. BGI believed it failed as a result of 
wear and tear. Ps report suggested this was less clear. Because  of the disagreement as to why the 
part failed the investigator thought  BGI should bear the cost of the replacement boiler itself.
The investigator said the age of the boiler meant it would  have to have been replaced in the near 
future. But the actions of BGIs  engineer meant the expense arose  sooner and unexpectedly.  The 
investigator said BGI shouldnt have to pay the cost of installation and labour for replacing the boiler, 
but should  pay compensation of £300, inclusive  if the £50 it had already offered, for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused  Mr C.
Mr C accepted the investigators recommendation. 
BGI responded to say it had sought advice from a technical expect within  its organisation who sat on 
the Gas Safe council. He advised that having looked at the connection that was broken  and the 
location of the connection within the boiler  it was reasonably  clear that the connection  nut could  have 
been worked  on with either a suitable sized spanner (fixed or adjustable) or grips.
The engineer carrying out the repair would determine which  tool was appropriate, either  through 
suitability or choice. He also advised that irrespective of whether a spanner or grips  were  used to 
attempt to undo the connection nut, it was unlikely  that the tool choice alone was the sole cause of the 
part breaking.  It was more  likely  that the part was seized due to age and that the force  applied, in 
attempting to undo the connection, caused the part to break.
BGI didnt agree that it should be making  a contribution towards the new boiler cost given it didnt 
believe its engineer was at fault.  The boiler was old and there was going to be a risk when changing 
parts due to wear and tear. It didnt feel it should be penalised  for this by covering the cost for a new 
boiler and significantly increasing  the gesture of goodwill.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I find that I disagree  with the conclusions the 
investigator came to.
The evidence  of P suggests  that in his professional  opinion it would  have been preferable to use a 
spanner on the relevant  part rather than pipe grips. The reason he gives is that this avoids  slippage 
on the nuts which can damage the nuts and make them difficult to grip. 
This may be so. But theres no evidence that this is what happened here and caused the part to 
break. BGIs  technical expert suggests the force applied  to try to undo the nut resulted  in the part 
breaking because it had seized due to age, and this would have  happened whichever  tool was used.
Having considered  carefully the available evidence, I think its more likely than not that the cause of 
the part breaking was that the nut had seized because of the age of the boiler, and it was the force 
applied to try to free it and possibly  the age of the part itself, rather  than the particular tool used,  that 
resulted in the break.
That being so, Im not persuaded  that BGIs engineer  did anything wrong.  So I dont think  its 
reasonable to require BGI either to contribute anything towards the cost of replacing  Mr Cs boiler, or 
to increase the compensation it has offered for the distress and inconvenience Mr C suffered.  
Ref: DRN20966504my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr C or from BGI by 27 September 2019, I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2096650