K822xcomplaint
Ms O is unhappy with the proposals by National House-Building Council (NHBC) for dealing  
with several defects under section 2 of her building warranty (years 1 and 2).  
background 
Ms O bought  a new property with the benefit  of a warranty with NHBC in November  2016.  
After she told NHBC  of a number of defects,  that needed remedying under section 2 of the 
warranty, NHBC agreed to operate its resolution  scheme.
NHBC issued  reports  in March and May 2017  following site visits. It issued two further 
desktop reports in September  and December 2017  giving  the builders further deadlines, the 
last one being 26 January  2018.  I issued a jurisdiction  decision,  setting out the issues that 
came within our jurisdiction. These  were those that hadnt been resolved by the 28 July 2017  
deadline and were the following (numbering taken from previous reports):
1 Heating makes a loud grinding noise when boiler/fan  shuts down.
4 Bath panel.
13 Master bed - furniture moves when  walking on floor.
14 Kitchen - French doors  have defects
16 Draughts are coming through doors  and windows.
20 Master bed - box requires vents/access opening/repair/redecoration.
22 Living  room - door is sticking, and cracking  sound.
Ms O says those matters (or works associated with them) have not been  carried  out (or 
carried out satisfactorily). She is unwilling to have the builders  back  to her home,  mainly  
because she feels they have been  incompetent but also because  of the way they have 
treated her (which she describes as bullying  and harassment). Further  she applied for 
arbitration under the Consumers Code for Home Builders to the Centre for Effective Dispute 
Resolution (CEDR) in respect of issues not resolved by the builders. That action was 
dismissed as the builders  werent party to the contract for sale. NHBC has confirmed that it 
doesnt affect the warranty between it and Ms O.
After referral to this service our investigator  said that NHBC should have taken over the 
works after the July deadline, instead of allowing the builders further time. She proposed  that 
it pay compensation of £500 and take over the outstanding work. NHBC agreed to the 
compensation figure but pointed out that the policy stated that if it chose to, it will pay the 
policyholder what  it would  cost it to have the work done. It said we seemed to imply that it is 
responsible to take over the works required when this is not the case and under normal  
circumstances, it would  meet its liability under the terms  of the policy  by paying a cash  
settlement sum. It was willing to carry out a reinspection of any outstanding matters,  but said 
it would  have to consider  any new evidence  Ms O provided.
As highlighted by Ms O, in a further view our investigator proposed that the compensation be 
increased to £600,  NHBC pay Ms Os cost of postage  for sending in evidence  after 28 July 2017,  
and consider the costs of any independent  reports Ms O sent in. 
Ref: DRN29195502I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that NHBC should  take over the issues set out 
above (save  for the heating, which Ill mention  below).  It should  arrange for the work to be 
carried out by contractors other than the builders. With regard to the windows and french  
doors I said that NHBC should arrange  a site visit to establish what works  needed  to be 
carried out over and above those recommended by the windows installer having regard to 
Ms Os expert report. I also said it should  pay the proposed  compensation.
NHBC accepted my provisional  decision. It wanted to emphasise that with regard to the 
windows, its visit will be to assess the windows  for compliance with its technical 
requirements (standards).  As I have said, this may not mean it will be carrying  out work  as 
suggested in the report from Ms Os expert.
Ms O didnt accept my decision.  As her comments are so detailed,  I will summarise them  in 
my findings  as they relate to each issue. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a preliminary point,  as Ms Os comments are so detailed, I intend only to comment  on 
those points I think are relevant to the consideration of her complaint.  I wont change the 
style of my decision nor shall I be changing  my findings (which are now final), except where 
set out below.
scope of this decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I have already  explained the issues I will be considering. I remain  of the view that all the 
other issues raised in the resolution  reports are outside my jurisdiction. In addition,  I wont  be 
considering the following:
NHBCs handling  of Ms Os complaints. Complaints handling by a business isnt a 
regulated activity so doesnt come under my powers to deal with. I would observe that a 
good deal of the correspondence with NHBC concerned the other issues  in the 
resolution reports which  again dont come under my powers  to consider.
This services handling of Ms Os complaints. My role as an ombudsman is to consider 
the merits of a complaint. To that end I wont be listening  to recordings of telephone 
conversations Ms O or NHBC have had with the investigator. Any action agreed  is well 
documented.
Whether this services  file is complete.  This service operates  as an alternative dispute  
resolution service to resolve complaints informally  between the parties. I think  it 
reasonable to assume that we have all the information  the parties have given  us. As has 
been explained to Ms O if she believes  we havent seen  any particular document  then 
she should  provide it or indicate when  it was created and what she believes it says. I 
should also add that I wont be setting out a detailed analysis of the complaints or the 
evidence. I will set out only those  points I consider relevant to resolving the dispute.
Ref: DRN29195503The dispute between  Ms O and the builders referred to under the Consumers code. I 
have already said (in my jurisdiction decision)  that the fact that the builders  have 
successfully had the arbitration  dismissed for not being a party to the sale,  has no 
bearing on NHBCs liability under the warranty. In so far as Ms O wants to raise a 
complaint about NHBCs  failure  to ensure that the builders were parties to the house 
sale it that is a new issue which she should  raise with NHBC. I cant consider it as part 
of this complaint.
Ms O says that she had been assured by this service that we can consider the way NHBC  
handled her complaints. She has quoted to me points from a number of decisions on our 
website where she says we dealt with complaints handling. I have set out the position 
factually and legally here  complaints handling  by a business  isnt a regulated activity. I 
have to distinguish  here between complaints about the claim and how NHBC handled it, and 
how it addressed her complaints. All the decisions she quoted and our investigators views 
dont deal with complaints  handling. The latter would include Ms Os complaints to the CEO 
of NHBC,  any chasing up she had to do of that complaint and any delays in the complaints 
procedure. I cant see anywhere  that she has been  told by us that we would deal with 
NHBCs complaints handling.
To the extent that she objects to what I say in the ensuing  two paragraphs I think  it important 
not to raise expectations.  Ms Os complaints to us raised a lot of issues  which simply dont 
come within my power to consider. 
Regarding the Consumer  Code Ms O says her complaint is that NHBC admit  that the builder 
is bound  to adhere to the code, yet he has refused to do so. Again thats  a new issue and I 
dont see it as being relevant to the complaints  Im considering here.  
1 heating makes a loud grinding noise when boiler/fan shuts  down
In my provisional decision I said:
Following Ms Os concerns about the noise made by the boiler, the builders replaced the 
original boiler. Ms O remained concerned about  the noise and It was agreed that the boiler 
manufacturer and plumber would undertake a joint visit. At that visit it was found that a 
pressure relief valve housed within the front bedroom service  boxing was set to zero, 
effectively preventing pressure relief  of the heating  system during operation. The valve
was re-set, but, NHBCs investigator  commented that this work was undertaken several  
months after replacement  of the original.  In the resolution report of 12 May 2017 NHBC 
recommended that the builders arrange a fully independent inspection of the heating  system 
to check for any un-diagnosed faults with the installation. As the resolution report  said that 
the guidance in that report must  be followed, by implication the builders were to correct any 
such faults.
That report  was issued  in July 2017.  It found  no faults with the system, but said that the 
inhibitor level (preventing  scale  and corrosion) was too low. It recommended flushing the 
system and refiling  with the correct level of inhibitor. NHBC was satisfied  that this was done, 
noting in its December 2017 report that the inhibitor  levels and residual scale presence  were 
checked by water sample testing undertaken and confirmed that the system levels  were  
acceptable.
Ref: DRN29195504Ms O advises us that the builders confirmed no such flush was done when the new boiler  
was fitted, and she doesnt believe it was carried out after the report.  She has shown us her 
email correspondence  with the manufacturers  of the boiler which says that:
it is entirely possible  that the system  bypass  being closed and/or the system having 
debris in it could both cause  problems within the boiler, (possibly  with the pump).
whether a scale  build up will cause an issue depends on the severity of it.
Ms O also had the water samples taken in July 2017 and in December 2017 independently 
checked (as did NHBC). Both confirmed that the December 2017 sample showed there to be 
appropriate levels of inhibitor.
I understand that the original problem  with the noise  was remedied by the replacement of the 
motorised valve on the system.
Ms O has also done her own research and believes  that the whole system was incorrectly 
fitted. She doesnt  accept that the report was independent or correct. She would like a new 
independent report  to be carried out.
Whist I appreciate Ms Os research, I cant  find that there are any further  faults with the 
system. I think  it reasonable  to rely on the expert report  commissioned  Ive seen no expert 
evidence to counter  it. As to whether a system flush was carried out, Ive noted that the 
December 2017  sample testing reported that the inhibitor level and residual scale presence 
were acceptable  (also confirmed by the testing Ms O had carried out). So, it seems likely to 
me that such a flush was carried out, so this complied  with NHBCs resolution.
The correspondence with the manufacturers points to possible  faults in the future if a scale 
build up had taken  place or in connection  with the setting of the pressure  valve.  I understand 
that Ms O has had the boiler serviced but still has concerns  that the warranty might  have 
been invalidated. But from the point  of view of NHBCs liability,  which  is after the deadline 
expired for builders  to carry out recommended  work, on 28 July, it has arranged for the work 
it recommended to be carried out. 
I dont propose to require  NHBC  to take any more action concerning the heating system. Ms O 
incurred costs for testing  the water samples but I dont propose to require NHBC to reimburse  
that outlay as the tests didnt produce any different  result from the action already taken.
Ms O wants her cost of the boiler service  to be refunded as the warranty is likely to have 
been invalidated. Ive seen no evidence  that it has. Servicing  the boiler is the homeowners  
responsibility and something a prudent homeowner does regardless  of any warranty in order  
to ensure the long-life of the boiler and avoid faults  developing  with the heating  system.
Ms O says the builders  are simply lying when they say they flushed  the system. She also 
says that I said Id seen  no evidence to contradict the builders heating report  of July 2017.  
I didnt say that  I said Id seen no expert  evidence  to counter it. While I appreciate that she 
has produced correspondence  with the manufacturer, they didnt come and inspect the 
system, so theres no expert report to counter the expert commissioned. If there are faults 
with the boiler  they are technical ones which need technical expertise to find. If for example  
I were  to tell NHBC to flush the system,  I dont  know whether that would harm it if it had 
already been flushed. And I cant say from the evidence that it hasnt.
Ref: DRN29195505Nevertheless Ms O has said in response  that the heating  is still making  a grinding noise and 
has shown us photos of corrosion at the bottom of her radiators. Ive put those to NHBC and 
proposed that it go out again and check the system to see if it complies with its technical 
requirements and if not to carry out any necessary work. It has agreed to do so and I will 
make a direction  accordingly.
4 bath panel 
In my provisional decision I said:
The bath panel was removed  it was refitted but not resealed. I understand this was done 
badly, so remains to be completed. NHBC should  arrange for the work to be carried out in 
accordance with my directions below.
Ms O wonders why I have  not highlighted (or awarded for) the fact that the NHBC have  done  
nothing about  this since Spring 2018  (almost 2 years ago),  when it previously accepted that 
this had been done badly  by the builder. She makes the further  point that NHBC has 
accepted the previous views of the investigator so I should also be addressing  why they 
have never  done  anything  about  anything (in 2 more years) under these circumstances.
NHBC accepted the investigators views but Ms O didnt, including  her views about our 
jurisdiction. Put simply Ms O was unwilling for NHBC to come out and do the work  unless  it 
accepted all the items under the resolution scheme  which she disputed. It was expected that 
an ombudsmans decision would be issued following the investigators views which for 
various reasons  hasnt  happened until now. I dont think  I can criticise NHBC for not taking 
action in response to our views when  Ms O didnt accept them.
13 master bed - furniture moves when  walking on floor 
In my provisional decision I said:
The recommendation  is that the builders  remove the floor covering to allow  for localised re-
fixing of the floor deck in the bedroom. It also confirmed that the builders would  deal with the 
uneven step at the top of the stairs  and the step in the floor covering between  the lounge  
and the kitchen.
Ms O also raised concerns following the above work  regarding  stability of the bannister  rail. 
NHBC said this should  be assessed and rectified  if defective along with any unresolved 
carpet re-laying work.
I believe some re-fixing  likely took place  but Ms O says the work  wasnt satisfactory, with 
protruding nails. To clarify,  NHBCs liability is to carry out any work  identified in its resolution  
report which the builders  hadnt carried out by the deadline (28 July 2017). It would have 
expected the builder  to carry that out to a reasonable standard.  So, it should arrange for the 
work (including remedying any defective  repair)  to be done  as set out above again  in 
accordance with my directions below.
I note that Ms O thinks I should make it clear what works need to be done, or NHBC will twist 
out of it. I dont need to  the work  is set out in the resolution report  and NHBC will have to 
carry out that work. Should it not be done  satisfactorily or completely Ms O will have the right 
to raise a further  complaint about it.
Ref: DRN2919550614 kitchen  french doors have defects
16 draughts are coming through doors and windows
In my provisional decision I said:
These issues essentially relate  to the same  problem  faulty glazed units  (some of them  are 
scratched) and faulty seals. NHBC required the builders to commission  from the window 
installers an inspection  and defects report covering the scratched double-glazed units  
(DGU), the draughts  through  the windows and the cause of the DGU spacer  bar seal defects 
and confirmation  of whether they will be replaced. In November 2017 the window installers 
produced a detailed list of work  to the areas which  require attention.
Ms O was dissatisfied with the list of work  although noted  that a substantial number of the 
panes of glass  needed replacing. She noted that the list didnt  deal with the spacer bar 
defects and that it dismissed the need to do anything about  the excess  of sealant  around 
some of the panes  which is unsightly.  It didnt recognise that there were any problems with 
the handles which just needed lubricating. She commissioned her own report  from an expert  
who found that there were substantial problems with the seals, excess  sealant and handles.
NHBC was sent that report  but pointed out that the windows  had to comply with its technical 
requirements which might be different to the standard  required by Ms Os expert. It has 
however agreed  to assess additional issues raised by the report to determine if these works  
are also required as well as the works already  agreed at the time of issue  of the report.
Since Ms Os report specifically deals with issues not dealt with (although  intended to be) by 
the window installers,  I think NHBC should reassess the windows  in the light of Ms Os 
expert report. It will need to do a site visit in that respect so I cant presume that the 
windows, apart from the issues identified by the installers, dont comply with NHBC 
requirements. It should arrange to carry out any repairs identified by the window installers 
and any further  ones identified by its site visit. The work should be arranged directly between  
NHBC and the window installers.
Ms O has incurred  costs of £903.72  from paying an expert. As the report identified further 
issues not dealt  with by the window installers,  I propose to require NHBC to pay those  costs.
In her response, in summary  Ms O objects to the window installers coming back  to do the 
repairs as she says they are incompetent and are legally  part of and answerable to the builders. 
I can understand Ms Os objections, but the situation  here is slightly different to the builders. So 
as far as I know theres no breakdown in the relationship with the window installers and they 
are, I can confirm, a different company to the builders. Im also aware that there could  be 
problems in getting another window installer  in to repair the work of another  installer.  
Ms O says the windows  installer is only willing to carry out the work  it deems  necessary. But 
if NHBC requires  work to be done it would expect the windows installer  to do it, or appoint  
someone else. Nevertheless Ill remove the requirement for NHBC to use the original 
window installers.  It can just take over the work and if it proposes  to use an installer Ms O 
doesnt want, it will have  to either appoint an alternative or cash settle.  But if it cash settles 
NHBC might say it will only pay what it would have cost it to carry out the repairs.  I should  
also add NHBCs caveat  here  the site visit will be to assess  the windows in the light of 
Ms Os expert report. This may not mean it will be carrying out work as suggested in the 
report from Ms Os expert. If Ms O, after the site visit still remains  unhappy she can still raise 
a further complaint about the matter.
Ref: DRN29195507Ms O has paid her expert and wants me to add interest to NHBCs payment  Im happy  to do so.
20 master bed - box requires vents/access opening/repair/redecoration
In my provisional decision I said:
The boxing in the front bedroom was accessed to do work on heating valves, however the 
boxing was damaged during removal of the lid. It was agreed that the boxing  would be 
replaced with a new unit which would be accessible, ventilated  and free from damage.
NHBC recorded in its December 2017 report that this work  had been  carried  out. As I 
understand it Ms O says that this was carried out poorly. According to NHBCs internal 
emails it agreed that this was poor, incomplete and not as required. Unless Ms O is now 
satisfied with the work, it should arrange  for his to be carried out again  in accordance with 
my directions below.
Ms O believes I have  been inconsistent here, accepting NHBCs word  on other items but not 
on this. I can only say that Im assessing each matter on the evidence. The issue here is that 
the work  has been done poorly  and Ms O has shown us photos of it. Unlike  the boiler I dont 
need a technical expert  to decide the matter. I stand  by my finding.
22 living room - door is sticking, and cracking sound .
In my provisional decision I said:
NHBC recommended  that the builders ease the bedroom door and re-fix/ decorate the 
lounge frame architrave.
It reported this to be resolved, however Ms O has concerns that re-decoration  of the door and 
frame is still required and that the hinges are now grinding and the repairs  to the door frame at 
the hinge are unsightly NHBC said this should  be assessed  and rectified as required.  It should 
arrange for this to be carried out, again in accordance with my directions below.
Whilst I note that Ms O wishes me to expand on this and set out the work  she believes needs 
doing, I wont do so. NHBC  has to ensure the work complies with its technical requirements.
carrying out of the work
In my provisional decision I said:
I dont think its practical, or fair to Ms O to expect  her to have the builders return  to 
complete the work. She has had substantial issues with them over poor workmanship. And 
while NHBC could compel  them, contractually to return, I dont think from the tenor of the 
correspondence with Ms O, that they would do so willingly. I shall therefore require that 
NHBC formally  take over the work from the builders  and arrange to have any work Ive 
identified above  (save for the windows/doors) carried out by a different contractor. Regarding 
the windows and doors, as is I said above  NHBC first needs to do a site visit and then it can 
arrange for any necessary, outstanding work  to be done.  If its not willing to do this, it should 
pay a cash settlement to Ms O to enable her to have the work carried  out by a contractor of 
her choice. If that applies, NHBC should  pay the cost of the work a reasonable private  
contractor rate, rather than any rate it might  get by arranging for the work itself. But it will still 
Ref: DRN29195508have to assess the windows because its best placed to determine, in the first instance,  if 
they comply with its technical  requirements.
Ms O would like me to make  a more direct criticism of the builder  and to go into more detail 
about the correspondence.  She also says I shouldnt say that NHBC could contractually 
compel the builders  to return. I should  point out here that I was addressing Ms Os concerns  
that the builder  might  return. Normally NHBC can, if it thinks  it appropriate, appoint the 
original builder to carry out repairs even after it has taken the matter over. It doesnt have in-
house contractors.  I dont intend  to go further into the actions of the builder. This complaint 
concerns NHBC.
compensation 
In my provisional decision I said:
Im aware that Ms O has been caused a great deal of distress  by the work that has had to 
be carried out to her property, and the way it was dealt  with. She has raised with us 
substantial issues about her health and how its affected her employment. But I have  to bear 
in mind that a lot of the work was carried out under the resolution scheme for which as Ms O 
is aware I have no power to make any awards.  Her substantial dealings  with the builders 
over and above the work listed in this decision also do not, as Ive said above come under 
my powers to deal with. 
For the complaints  I have  upheld that fall within my jurisdiction, I believe a suitable award of 
compensation is the £500 award  proposed.  I take into account, but only after 28 July 2017,  
that NHBC should have  taken over the matter  much sooner, rather than issue desktop  
resolution reports without  carrying out a site visit. I also think NHBC didnt take sufficient 
account of some of the poor workmanship  in carrying out repairs. I should add that I dont 
think Ms O failed  to co-operate with the repairs/site visits, as the builders reported to NHBC.
I wont award compensation for the work  involved in Ms O dealing with NHBCs complaints 
process, or this offices process and I wont make  any award  for Ms Os expenses  or her 
time incurred  in typing  up and sending  us her complaints. We dont usually award  costs  of a 
consumers expenses of presenting a complaint, bearing in mind  that this is a free service to 
consumers. This would only be appropriate if the consumer needed to pay for technical  
expertise in presenting their complaint, and I dont  believe that to be the case here.
I would correct the award here  it is £600. Ms O believes I should look at correspondence 
from January 2017 onwards and that the award  is derisory. She believes it doesnt take 
account of the health issues she has suffered nor of her employers letters,  detailing how it 
affected her employment.  She has suffered for over two and a half years which she thinks I 
should take account of. She further believes that we do award  consumers expenses  which  I 
should make  an award for here.
As Ive said above  this issue hasnt been  outstanding since Spring 2018 because  of NHBCs 
failure to take action.  As Ive also said our jurisdiction over NHBC starts after July 2017 when 
it should have  taken over the work.  I simply  dont have the power  to look at matters before 
then. I think for the period in question and bearing  in mind the limit of my powers  here, the 
compensation to be pad is fair and reasonable taking into account Ms Os health  issues,  My 
view is that, although  occasionally we have awarded  consumers  expenses  in making a 
complaint its not appropriate to do so here. 
Ref: DRN29195509I have noted that in our view of May 2018  it was proposed  that NHBC pay Ms Os costs  of 
postage, for Ms O sending the evidence to it after 28 July 2017, which it accepted.  So it 
should pay those  costs, plus interest. Ms O should  produce the relevant receipts she wants 
payment for to NHBC.
bullying
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms O complains of NHBCs failure  to deal appropriately with, or to tackle, bullying and 
intimidating behaviour  on the part of the builders towards her. Most of the contact with the 
builders took place whilst it was being  dealt  with under the resolution  scheme.  Under the 
warranty the builders  had the primary responsibility for carrying  out any work. NHBC can, as 
in this case instruct the builders to carry out work but its not responsible for the builders 
conduct. I note in any event that the builders  deny any bullying or intimidating behaviour. We 
carry out investigations of the documents but where  there is an allegation like this it isnt 
usually possible,  without corroborative  evidence,  to make a finding.
Ms O believes the bullying has continued to the present day eg the builder sending out 
invitations to buy their new homes.  And that she has produced evidence of the bullying 
behaviour which I should  assess. I dont think I can add much more  to what Ive said.  NHBC 
isnt responsible for the conduct of the builder  while its operating  its resolution scheme. Nor 
is it responsible for actions taken by the builder which have nothing to do with the repair 
work at the property.
bias
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms O believes  NHBCs claims  investigator was biased  being over friendly with the 
builders. She believes he may have worked for the builders in the past. Given  that NHBC 
denies this, I cant  really take this any further. I dont  find the resolution reports, completed 
by NHBC after it should  have taken over the claim in July 2017, to be out of the ordinary.
Ms O says she has produced countless examples of bias eg the claims investigator 
discussing matters with the builder without involving her. I can understand that Ms O had the 
perception here that the investigator was biased  against her. 
I think for me to make a finding I would have to say that I thought NHBC deliberately made  
decisions against Ms O and against  its own requirements, because of its relationship  with 
the builder. Rather than a decision Ms O disagreed with (even  if it was overturned later by 
evidence). I dont think there  was any bias (as Ive defined it) here.
rule 27
Ms O is disappointed that I havent addressed this. She believes that NHBC  had the option 
to take over all future works at her property under R27 because of the breakdown in 
relations with the builder.  And that I should require it to do so. Rule (not regulation)  27 is part 
of the terms and conditions between NHBC and the builder.  It sets out what  NHBC will do, 
and what the builders liability is, if it takes  over any work. The rule is operated entirely  at 
NHBCs option. As far as Im aware  NHBC wont use R27 in respect of future works which 
havent yet been identified. I certainly have no power to require it to do so as no complaint  
Ref: DRN291955010within my jurisdiction has yet been  made whereby it might be required. NHBC has taken (or 
will be taking  over) the works listed here, so effectively will be invoking R27.
NHBC deliberately blocking claims
Ms O believes that as Ive upheld  complaints,  this proves that NHBC deliberately  blocked the 
claims in an effort to avoid  payment of them. As the issues Ive upheld  relate to resolution 
reports in which NHBC specifically set out work for the builder to do, I dont think  it can be 
said it deliberately  blocked it. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaints and require National House-Building Council to:
Carry out an inspection of the boiler and heating  system to establish if it complies with 
NHBCs technical  requirements. Thereafter to arrange  for any works identified by that 
process to be carried out by contractors other  than the builders. If it isnt willing  to do that it 
should pay a cash settlement  to Ms O at the rate she would have to pay a private contractor.
Take over the following works  (as set out in more detail above) and arrange for them  to 
be carried out by contractors other than the builders. If it isnt willing  to do that it should 
pay a cash settlement to Ms O at the rate she would have to pay a private contractor:
o4 Bath panel.
o13 Master bed - furniture moves  when walking on floor.
o20 Master bed - box requires vents/access  opening/repair/redecoration.
o22 Living room - door is sticking, and cracking sound.
Take over the following works  and arrange  a site visit to establish what  works  need  to 
be carried out (if any) over and above those recommended by the windows installer, 
having regard  to Ms Os expert  report,  in accordance with NHBCs technical 
requirements. Thereafter,  arrange for any such  works  to be carried out in respect of the 
following issues in the resolution reports:
o14 kitchen  French doors have defects
o16 draughts  are coming through doors and windows.
pay £903.72  to Ms O in respect of her expert  report and add simple interest* at 8% per 
year from the date Ms O paid it to the date of payment.
pay Ms Os cost of postage in respect of sending evidence to it, on production of the 
relevant receipts, from 28 July 2017  and add simple interest* at 8% per year from the 
date Ms O paid each item to the date of payment.
pay £600 compensation to Ms O.
*National House-Building Council is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct  tax 
from any interest paid. Should  Ms O request it, National House-Building Council should 
provide her with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if 
appropriate, she can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN291955011Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ray Lawley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2919550