K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1996. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mr H. But its clear  he had it on 
his account so it mustve  been added either when Mr H took out his credit card or some time 
after. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with our adjudicators view. Mr H 
mainly says that he had significant sick pay so he didn't need the PPI policy.  He also said 
that if the cost and benefit had been made  clear,  and hed known it was optional,  then he 
wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mr H being able to remember everything  as it happened so long ago. So I cant  know  
exactly what the bank  mightve said to Mr H when he took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if Mr H 
wouldve filled in a form like this as its unclear  how he took out the PPI. So Im not relying on 
this.
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. It looks  to me as if 
Mr H couldve  benefitted from having  PPI if hed needed to claim. So, on balance, I think its 
more likely that Mr H decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added 
PPI to his account  at his request. 
As Lloyds  wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mr H, it said in fairness to him it would treat this 
as an advised  sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to him. This means  Lloyds 
not only had to give Mr H important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for him. So Ive 
looked at Mr Hs complaint with this in mind. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mr H based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Ive checked the terms in policy documents  that were in use during the period  when  Mr H 
signed up for PPI. 
Ref: DRN27884222Mr H was eligible for the PPI cover. He mentioned that he wouldve got full sick pay for 
6 months followed by 6 months'  half pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve paid 
more than his minimum  credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As Mr H mightve  also had some 
additional costs  if he was too unwell  to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been 
a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially as hed only have got half his usual pay after 
6 months off work. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mr Hs credit card repayments  if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
I dont know if Mr H wouldve always been able to rely on the sale of shares (that in any 
event didnt belong  to him) if he couldnt  work and had money problems. So I think  PPI 
provided Mr H with a useful benefit in his particular circumstances.   
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if this wouldve affected 
Mr H. So I dont think that having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  put Mr H off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr H made a claim. But I think Mr H chose to take out the policy   so it 
looks like he wanted this type of cover. It seems to have been affordable for him. When  he 
was paying for PPI this was shown on his monthly  statements  and he couldve cancelled the 
policy at any time if his circumstances changed  or he no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Mr H wouldve made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think hed still have  taken out 
the policy. This means Mr H hasnt  lost out as a result of anything  that Lloyds may have 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision, I've taken into account  everything Mr H has said, including the 
comments hes made in response  to our adjudicators assessment. He mentioned that he 
mightve had some  difficulty filling out an application form on his own.  But I dont know  the 
circumstances in which he applied  for PPI. So this makes  no overall difference to my 
decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2788422