K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) and its handling of a loan for which
Mr and Mrs B are guarantors. Mr and Mrs B want Lloyds to accept their offer in full and final
settlement of the loan holders debt.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision on jurisdiction issued in 
March 2019. A copy of that decision is attached to this. 
In the provisional  decision  I explained why I thought that Mr and Mrs B were  consumers  of 
Lloyds for the purposes of their being guarantors on a loan, and the enforcement  of that 
guarantee. 
I explained that I thought  that Mr and Mrs B were entitled to complain about:
Lloyds not updating them (Mr and Mrs B) about the outstanding balance of the 
account at an earlier stage;
Lloyds refusing to accept monthly repayments from Mr and Mrs B; and 
Lloyds refusing Mr and Mrs Bs offer to settle the debt  at £10,000
My provisional decision has been shared with the parties for their comments.
 Lloyds has not responded to the provisional  decision. 
Mr and Mrs B have  responded, correcting part of my understanding in that they felt that 
Lloyds should  have offered more help to them to mitigate their losses,  rather than that Lloyds 
should have been proactive in the sale of the business.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also set out that they believe that the balance quoted by Lloyds is too 
high and that it includes a credit card balance which was not linked to their guarantee.
I appreciate their concern over this, and whilst it appears from the evidence I have seen that 
Lloyds is only pursuing the debt linked  to the Ms business loan, if Mr and Mrs B are 
concerned about  whether a credit  card balance has been included  they will need to raise this 
as a complaint  with Lloyds. 
In respect of my understanding  of their complaint, I am grateful for their correction. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  not commented on the issues in my provisional decision relating  to what 
they can, and cannot complain about.  
The business has not responded.
In the absence of further evidence or arguments,  my view remains that Mr and Mrs B are 
consumers of Lloyds,  but that their standing as consumers  is limited to their being 
Ref: DRN23371112guarantors, rather  than parties  to the account. As a result they would not be entitled to the 
same level of information as account holders. 
I therefore adopt the reasoning and decision  from my provisional decision as my final 
decision on jurisdiction and will look only at the merits of the following issues:
Whether Lloyds should have updated  Mr and Mrs B about the outstanding balance of 
the account at an earlier stage;
Whether Lloyds was wrong  to refuse to accept monthly repayments from Mr and Mrs 
B; and 
Whether Lloyds was wrong  to refuse Mr and Mrs Bs offer to settle the debt  at  
£10,000
In respect of the merits of the complaints,  the adjudicator has already set out a view to Mr 
and Mrs B on these issues. 
This was that Mr and Mrs B were not entitled to information about the account which  would 
otherwise have only been discussed with the account holders. 
Accordingly, Lloyds  was under no obligation to discuss the account arrears with Mr and Mrs 
B at any point prior to Lloyds seeking  to pursue the debt against the guarantors.
The adjudicator also set out that Lloyds was entitled to refuse to accept monthly instalments, 
and / or the settlement  offer extended by Mr and Mrs B, as it had no obligation  to do 
otherwise. 
I am of the same view as the adjudicator. Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have found 
themselves in a difficult situation in respect  of the loan enforcement,  I do not think  that 
Lloyds has acted unfairly towards  them.  
Lloyds was under no obligation to update them on the Ms management of the account, and 
in fact would  have been restricted  from giving  out information on the account  to non account 
holders. 
Lloyds was also entitled to reject a repayment  method  from Mr and Mrs B when the account  
had failed with the account holders, and it was not obliged  to accept any offer of settlement 
made by Mr and Mrs B, that was less than the debt outstanding.
As a result, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs B, I agree with 
the view set out by the adjudicator that there is no evidence of Lloyds acting wrongly. 
As a result I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I do not uphold 
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and do not ask Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Ref: DRN23371113Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2337111