K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Virgin  Money Plc acted unfairly and unreasonably either  when 
giving them a mortgage or by refusing to lend more money now or let them remortgage 
without paying  an early repayment  charge (ERC). They  want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage  with Virgin and also a Help to Buy equity loan, for which  
theyd applied through a broker.  They asked Virgin to let them remortgage in order to repay 
the equity loan. Mr and Mrs D said that Virgin had told them  that it wasnt  possible to borrow  
more money under  the terms and conditions  of their mortgage, and the only way forward  
was to take out a new product and pay the ERC. Mr and Mrs D said that the mortgage offer 
they accepted hadnt  made this clear and wanted to be able to either borrow  more money or 
switch without paying the ERC.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to Virgin. It said that the broker recommended the mortgage  so it 
didnt mis-sell  it to Mr and Mrs D. Virgin pointed out that the mortgage  offer did set out the 
ERC and the terms of the offer.
Mr and Mrs D complained  to us. The adjudicators view was that Virgin  wasnt at fault. She 
said that it wasnt possible to borrow more under the Help to Buy mortgage  and this was set 
out in the mortgage offer.  The adjudicator  said that repaying the mortgage to get a new 
mortgage to repay the equity loan did mean the ERC would be due, and she didnt think that 
this was unfair or unreasonable.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed.  They thought the position shouldve made clearer to them  at the 
start and the wording  used was misleading.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage was taken out through a broker. Its the role of the broker  to explain the terms 
and conditions of the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs D, and ensure that its suitable (including the 
impact on future borrowing); it isnt the role of Virgin. 
The government requires  lenders to refuse to lend more money  to Help to Buy consumers if 
they wish to rely on the connected government guarantee; this is why both the Key Facts 
Illustration and the mortgage offer state clearly that no extra  lending  will be given. I dont 
think it matters  where within the document that is stated, as long as its set out clearly, as 
was the case  with Mr and Mrs D. The whole document should be read. I also dont think  that 
its necessary to make it clearer  that when a lender says no extra money will be lent, it 
means no extra money will be lent at all as this isnt the case.  Its clear  that Mr and Mrs D 
could borrow more  by remortgaging. The problem  for them is that such  a remortgage does 
count as repaying the mortgage product early and trigger the ERC.
Ref: DRN24002322ERCs are lawful if they are a genuine pre-estimate of the losses that the lender may face if 
the mortgage is repaid early (and the loss can be calculated over a number of mortgages 
and products) and if the ERC is set out clearly in the mortgage offer. The ERC  was set out 
clearly in Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage offer, and again its for the broker  to explain that this 
means if the mortgage  is repaid early  (for example, to take out another product  to repay the 
equity loan),  the ERC will be due. I note that the ERC can be reduced if a Virgin  product is 
taken out. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my 
decision before  12 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2400232