K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that shes been unfairly charged by PSA Finance UK Limited (PSA) for 
damage to a car that had been supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss D under a hire purchase agreement with PSA that she 
signed in July 2015. At the end of the agreement arrangements were  made  for the car to be 
collected from her by a third party on behalf of PSA. An inspection  report was prepared at 
the time of collection which identified the following chargeable items:
an incomplete service history charged  at £200,  
preparation marks from a poor repair to the front bumper charged at £75
preparation marks from a poor repair to the front door charged at £122
damage to two of the alloy wheels charged  at £65 each
missing spare key charged  at £100
An invoice for charges  was sent to Miss D for that damage and for excess mileage charges. 
Miss D complained about the charges and in particular said that the car had been properly 
serviced and all repairs had been  undertaken by a reputable garage. Miss D said she had 
kept the car within the limits of the mileage  agreed and she shouldnt  have to pay the 
charges.
In its final response PSA agreed to reduce  the charges for the service history  and the poor 
repairs to the front bumper and door by 25%. In addition, PSA reduced the excess  mileage  
charge. Miss D wasnt satisfied with this response, so she complained to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and recommended  that it was upheld in part in 
relation to the front door damage. He said that the photographs  didnt  show  the damage and 
didnt support any charge. He recommended that this charge should be waived. He thought  
that the reduced charges  for the other  items were fair and reasonable and didnt recommend 
that PSA do anything  more in relation to those charges.  PSA accepted the investigators 
view.
 
Miss D didnt agree and has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D signed the hire purchase agreement in July 2015. Immediately above her signature  it 
says:
This is a Hire-Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974. Sign it only 
if you want to be legally  bound by its terms.
On page 2 of the agreement the annual mileage is shown as 6000 miles. Miss D also signed 
an adequate explanation  document  confirming  that the mileage had been  agreed and 
exceeding the agreed mileage would incur a charge.  The terms and conditions which 
Ref: DRN28336792accompanied the agreement set out the requirements to care for the vehicle under 
paragraph 6.
Before Miss D returned the vehicle, PSA wrote to her and explained what  would be required 
if she returned her car. The letters that I have seen referred to the terms and conditions and 
set out what would be expected. Miss D was reminded that a full-service  history was 
required, and any damage should be repaired before handing the car back to avoid any 
charges.
Miss D returned the car in September 2018. I can see from the collection report that the 
damage was recorded  and photographed  and the mileage on collection was recorded as 
25532. I have seen the report  with photos  of the damage.
In her initial letter of complaint  Miss D agreed  with the charges for the two alloy wheels and 
for the replacement of the missing key. The key has subsequently been found but the car 
was sold at auction very shortly after collection. In these circumstances I think  it was 
reasonable to charge for the missing  key to reflect the loss in value at auction. The letter  
sent to Miss D before the car was collected  clearly sets out that the spare key should be 
returned. 
I can see that the car did cover more than the agreed mileage. Miss D says that a higher 
mileage was agreed at the dealership, but I havent seen any evidence of this and the 
agreement is clear. PSA has agreed to reduce the excess mileage charge to reflect that a 
higher mileage may have been  agreed  with the dealership and not reflected in the signed 
agreement. I think  this is fair and reasonable and so I cant  ask PSA to do anything  further.
The remaining  issues  are the damage  to the bumper and door caused by a poor repair  and 
the incomplete service  history.
 
I consider it to be clear  from the photos  in the report that the damage  to the front bumper is 
more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and tear. 
The photograph shows imperfections  and a bubbling effect in the paintwork. I think it is 
reasonable for the PSA to charge for this item and I think the 25% reduction  of the initial  
charge proposed is fair and reasonable.
I agree  with the investigator that the charge for the incomplete service history  is also fair. I 
agree with Miss D that the service has been carried out by a reputable  garage  and the 
service book stamped.  However, the manufacturer recommends yearly  services or at 
16,000-mile intervals  whichever is sooner. Although Miss D has not covered enough miles 
for 3 services, she has had use of the car for 3 years and so the car ought to have been 
serviced each year.  In these circumstances the car has not been  serviced  in accordance  
with the manufacturers recommendations and PSA is entitled to charge for the loss of value 
at auction. PSA has agreed to reduce this charge  by 25% which  I agree is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.  
Our investigator thought that the photographs of the front door contained in the inspection 
report didnt show any damage  that would justify  a charge. PSA has agreed with the 
investigators view and agreed to remove the charge for this item. I have considered  the 
photograph and I agree that it doesnt  show enough  damage that would  justify  a charge so I 
think that PSA should remove the charge for this item.
Ref: DRN28336793I can appreciate why Miss D is unhappy, especially as the car was sold very quickly  after 
collection and she hasnt  been able to have an independent inspection carried out. I dont  
think PSA did anything wrong  by selling the car straightaway and it is entitled to charge for 
loss of value at auction for damage  that is outside  reasonable  wear and tear. Looking  at the 
inspection report,  other  than the charge for the door, I think  the charges are supported  by the 
photographs of the damage. PSA has agreed to reduce the original charges which I think  is 
fair and reasonable and so I cant ask it to do any more than remove the charge for the door.
 
my final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ds complaint in part and direct  
PSA Finance UK Limited to remove the charge for the door in addition  to the reductions it 
has already made. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2833679