K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim on his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Ms car was involved in an accident in November 2017.  Admiral said the car was a total 
loss. They  appointed an independent  assessor to examine  and value the car. The assessor  
said there were examples  of similar cars for sale in excess of £2,500 that were  in very good 
condition. They said Mr Ms car wasnt in good  condition as it had pre-existing damage. The 
assessor took into consideration the pre-existing damage and gave the pre-accident  market 
value of Mr Ms car as £500. That implied the cost of putting right the pre-existing damage 
would have cost £2,000.  And as Mr Ms policy excess  was £600  more  than the settlement 
value of the car  Admiral didnt pay Mr M anything.  Mr M felt Admirals  decision was unfair. 
He said he had seen  a number of cars similar to his advertised between £4,000 and £8,000.  
He therefore said he felt his car was worth £5,000. Mr M complained.
Mr M was also unhappy about  Admirals  service, in particular he said he wanted to speak to 
a specific member of staff but he wasnt put through to her. Admiral upheld  Mr Ms complaint 
in part. They accepted their service could  have been better and they offered him £150  
compensation to address that. Admiral said their pre-accident market valuation  of the car 
was correct. As Mr M didnt think  that was fair, he brought his complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into the complaint. She felt that Admiral  hadnt dealt with Mr M 
fairly. She found  the evidence  given  by Mr M convincing, and she was satisfied from the 
evidence that the car was worth around £4,000. So after the deduction of the £2,000 for pre-
existing damage  and £600  for the policy excess,  she suggested that Admiral  pay Mr M 
£1,400. As Admiral  didnt agree with our investigator,  the complaint was passed  to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 8 March  2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part.
My role is to decide if Admiral have dealt with Mr M in a fair and reasonable way.
valuation of the car
Mr Ms policy says that in the event of the total loss of his car, Admiral  will pay the 
market value of it immediately before the accident.  Ordinarily we expect  insurers to 
value cars using several industry accepted trade guides. But In this case, as Mr Ms 
car is almost 30 years old, the guides cant be used as they dont provide values 
going that far back. Mr Ms car is rare and is accepted  as being a classic.
In the absence of the guides, we expect insurers to look to other information to give a 
fair valuation. In this case Admiral instructed  an independent  assessor. He has 
provided a report in which he said the pre-accident  market  value  of Mr Ms car should  
be £500. He said the car had pre-existing damage unrelated to the accident.  He also 
said that while you can find examples for sale in excess of £2500, it is for vehicles 
that are in very good  condition, not like this example. He implied that the cost of 
Ref: DRN27489012putting right the pre-existing  damage  to Mr Ms car was £2,000. Although  he later told 
our service  that the pre-existing damage  would cost £2,500 to put right. While he 
listed and photographed  the pre-existing damage, he didnt provide a breakdown of 
costs.
The independent assessor provided a number of adverts  of cars for sale he said 
were similar to Mr Ms car. I have looked  at those adverts. Only one was similar to Mr 
Ms and that was advertised for sale at just under £4,000. I have also seen  the 
adverts provided by Mr M. They  range between £4,000  and under £6,000. Most of 
them are priced at around £5,000.  I therefore dont think Admirals  pre-accident 
market valuation of £500 was reasonable given  the number of similar  cars advertised 
for much higher. Given most  of the cars advertised were for around  £5,000,  allowing 
for some reduction after negotiation, as is expected, I think a fair valuation  of Mr Ms 
car, without  its pre-existing damage, would be £4,500.
I am satisfied from the evidence that Mr Ms car did have pre-existing damage 
unrelated to the accident as outlined in the independent assessors  report. While he 
didnt provide a breakdown of the costs for putting right the pre-existing damage, he 
initially implied it would cost £2,000, but later said £2,500. I think  it would be fair to 
use the lower figure of £2,000 which was the amount initially implied.  But we don't 
think its fair to deduct the total cost of repair from the valuation. It is accepted 
industry practice to halve  the cost of repair of the pre-existing  damage and deduct 
that sum from the valuation. So in this case, £1,000 should be deducted from the 
£4,500 leaving  £3,500.  A further £600  will have  to be deducted for the policy  excess. 
That would leave  £2,900 that I intend to require  Admiral  to pay Mr M as the pre-
accident market  valuation of the car. Simple interest  at 8% a year should be added to 
that amount  from the date of claim  until the date payment is made to Mr M.
poor service
Admiral have already  accepted that their service could have been better and they 
offered Mr M £150 compensation.  I think that amount is reasonable and its in line 
with the kind of compensation our service  awards  for complaints of similar 
seriousness. Im therefore not asking Admiral to do anything  else.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr M accepted my provisional findings. 
Admiral said:
The independent assessor inspected Mr Ms car and said it was in poor condition 
with pre-existing damage.
As Mr Ms car wasnt covered by the trade guides, the assessors valuation was 
based on internet  research. 
The assessor is an expert whose evidence should be given  more  weight.
The adverts provided by Mr M were  of newer  cars with lower  mileage  and mostly  in 
excellent condition,  therefore they were not comparable with his car.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
Ref: DRN27489013In response to Admirals  comments, I would like to say the following. I made  it very clear  in 
my provisional decision that I accepted the assessors evidence that there was pre-existing 
damage that would  need  around  £2,000 worth of repair work to put right. I acknowledged 
that and deducted half of that amount, in line with industry practice, from the valuation.  Had 
the repairs to the areas identified by the assessor  been carried  out, then I think Mr Ms car 
would have been in very good condition.
While the assessor is considered an expert  in this field,  he produced some adverts that bore 
no resemblance to Mr Ms car. For example, from the adverts  he provided two were around 
15 years  younger than Mr Ms car, which were clearly not comparable to Mr Ms. While the 
adverts provided by Mr M were not identical in all aspects (age, mileage and other  
specifications), some were very similar to his. And given how rare his type of car is and its 
limited availability, its not surprising that no identical cars could  be found. The valuation of 
rare cars like Mr Ms isnt an exact science,  but from the adverts provided some were  very 
similar. So I think the valuation I suggested in my provisional decision based  on the available  
evidence is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr M £2,900. Simple  interest at 8% a year should  be added  to that 
amount from the date of claim until the date payment is made to Mr M.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Admiral consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr M how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr M a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN2748901