K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that his credit file with Equifax Limited doesnt show  him as being on the 
electoral roll at his stated  address.  He says this has affected his ability to obtain credit.
background
Mr A says he moved into the address in question and then successfully applied  to the local 
authority to be added  to the electoral roll. Shortly after this, he noticed he wasnt  being 
shown as on the electoral roll at the address  on his credit file, so contacted  Equifax. He also 
had applications  for credit  declined by two lenders.
Mr A has supplied  a letter  from his local authority, written to him at the address, confirming 
his application  to be added to the electoral register was successful.
In its final response letter,  Equifax said it cannot  reflect Mr As registration on his credit 
report because the address  is not a residential property. 
Our investigator found that Equifax hasnt done  anything wrong as its source of address 
information doesnt show the address as being  a residential one.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and will explain why.
To reach my decision, Ive looked  at whether Equifaxs refusal to show Mr A as being on the 
electoral roll at that address  is reasonable, given its usual process and what it knows  about 
the address.
With regard to the electoral roll, Equifaxs website  says it obtains information from local 
authorities. But it also says the electoral roll detail, shown on a credit  file, starts with the 
name of the residents . So I think this means  that the purpose of showing electoral roll 
information is to confirm that the consumer lives at the respective address. I think Equifaxs 
website gives further indication of this purpose  where it says:
How does the electoral register affect credit reports?
Lenders use the information from the electoral register to  confirm your identity  
when you make an application for credit. The register shows your name and 
address and also how long you have been  registered at that  address, this 
provides an easy way to check both personal  information and how stable  you 
are in terms of residence .
The letter Mr A supplied  from his local authority  says hes been added  to the electoral roll. 
But Royal Mail doesnt list the address as residential. An internet search on the address 
Ref: DRN28335492shows that it belongs  to a mail box company which offers virtual addresses  and physical 
boxes for mail delivery. 
Ive not seen that Mr A has provided  any other evidence to Equifax indicating  the address  is 
residential. So, I think its reasonable  that Equifax isnt satisfied that the address Mr A has 
supplied is a residential address. And I think its website indicates that the electoral roll 
information it shows on individual  credit files is supposed to be for residential  addresses. 
Given that Equifax  isnt satisfied that the address Mr A has supplied  is a residential address,  
I dont think its done anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint  against Equifax Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2833549