K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  handled a claim 
they made under their home contents insurance policy following a burglary at their home  
address.
 
background
On 28 November 2016 Mr and Mrs F suffered a burglary at their home address, during 
which a substantial quantity of jewellery  and other personal items  were stolen. Mr and Mrs F 
contacted the police promptly who provided  a crime report in which  each item that had been 
stolen was recorded. Some items of the stolen  jewellery were recovered.  However,  the 
majority of the items stolen were  disposed of.
At the time of the burglary Mr and Mrs F held contents insurance with Lloyds. But they also 
held buildings  and contents insurance  with another insurer, who Ill refer to here as E.
When Mr and Mrs F attempted to claim for their loss under their policy with Lloyds it became 
aware that they were also insured with E. So, it told Mr and Mrs F at the outset that they 
couldnt be dual insured  or claim for their loss from two separate insurers.  It therefore asked 
them to decide  which insurer they wished to utilise  to make their claim.
Mr and Mrs F told Lloyds  they wanted  to pursue  their claim with it. So, Lloyds appointed a 
personal claims consultant (PCC)  to oversee their claim. Both the PCC and Lloyds explained 
that Mr and Mrs F would  need to provide  confirmation that they had cancelled their policy  
with E. Mr and Mrs F said they provided the requested information  to Lloyds and their PCC 
on numerous occasions. However, they say Lloyds still wouldnt process their claim. 
Being unhappy with the delays they were experiencing in making a claim with Lloyds Mr and 
Mrs F complained. But Lloyds didnt uphold their complaint. In its final response, it said it 
hadnt progressed  Mr and Mrs Fs claim because, while it was aware they wanted to claim 
under their Lloyds policy, it hadnt received confirmation that their policy with E had been  
cancelled. 
After Mr and Mrs F received Lloyds final response to their complaint they provided evidence 
from E that their policy had been cancelled on 18 January  2018.  However,  Lloyds told them  
it needed evidence  that their policy  with E had been  cancelled from inception and that any 
claim with E had been permanently closed. 
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response Mr and Mrs F referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. They 
didnt think Lloyds had acted fairly  and recommended  it pay Mr and Mrs F £50 for their 
distress and inconvenience. Lloyds initially rejected our investigators  view but later agreed 
to pay Mr and Mrs F £50 the compensation our investigator had recommended.  However, Mr 
and Mrs F didnt  feel the amount proposed recognised the trouble  and upset theyd been 
caused. So, they asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26316402Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Fs home was burgled in November 2016 and that 
possessions of significant value were stolen.  Mr and Mrs F held a contents  insurance policy  
with Lloyds. But they also held a buildings and contents insurance policy concurrently with E.
As our investigator explained where a consumer is dual insured, as Mr and Mrs F were here, 
its standard practice for both insurers to return 50% of the premiums  the policyholder paid 
whilst being insured under both policies because theyd each be liable for 50% of a claim. 
This is reflected in the terms  and conditions of Mr and Mrs Fs policy with Lloyds, which  state 
where a claim is brought for something which is covered by another  insurance  policy  Lloyds 
will only pay its proportionate share of any claim.  
In this case Mr and Mrs F agreed to cancel  their policy with E and pursue their claim with 
Lloyds. It agreed to accept and progress their claim as a sole insurer  even though the terms 
of Mr and Mrs Fs insurance policy entitled  it to settle this claim on a 50% basis.
Lloyds agreed  to settle this claim subject to it receiving confirmation that Mr and Mrs Fs 
contents policy with E has been cancelled from its date of inception and that no claim will 
therefore be paid out by E under that policy. 
I can understand why Lloyds would want this information  it wants  to ensure theres no 
double recovery here. And its seen  evidence that Mr and Mrs F had attempted  to claim 
under their policy with E while also communicating with Lloyds about  making a claim. In view 
of that I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lloyds to tell Mr and Mrs F it wouldnt progress 
their claim without  the requested evidence.
I can see that on 18 July 2019, in Lloyds  final response to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, it told 
them it wasnt able to proceed with their claim because  it hadnt received confirmation from 
them that their contents policy with E had been cancelled.  It said it had sent reminders  to Mr 
and Mrs F telling them it needed this information but it hadnt received a response.
Mr and Mrs F said they provided Lloyds with the evidence it needed on multiple occasions. 
However, the only evidence Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs F telling Lloyds they had cancelled  their 
policy with E was in an email they sent on 25 July 2019. Lloyds has provided our service 
with detailed and comprehensive contact notes,  which dont record  any earlier  confirmation 
of cancellation  from Mr and Mrs F. So, I think,  on balance, its most likely  that if they had told 
Lloyds or their PCC  earlier than on 25 July 2019  this would be recorded.
In Mr and Mrs Fs email  of 25 July 2019 they provided written confirmation  from E that it had 
cancelled their insurance policy on 18 January 2018. But Lloyds said it had concerns that 
this post dated  the date of the burglary. So, it told Mr and Mrs F that, as cover remained in 
force in November 2016, this wouldnt prevent them pursuing a claim with E if they wished.
I think Lloyds could  have  been clearer in its final response letter as to what  information it 
would need in order to progress Mr and Mrs Fs claim.  I also think it ought  to have explained 
at the outset that it would  also require confirmation  that their contents  policy  with E had been 
cancelled from the inception date. 
Mr and Mrs F provided Lloyds with the information  Lloyds asked for in its correspondence of 
18 July 2019.  So, I can understand why they thought theyd done everything Lloyds had 
asked. They were entitled to rely on Lloyds to tell them what  it needed to progress their 
claim. And they couldnt  have known  Lloyds also required confirmation that their policy with 
E had been  cancelled from the date of inception until they were  told. 
Ref: DRN26316403I think, to reflect the distress and inconvenience this all caused,  a modest amount of 
compensation is fair. Its clear that Mr and Mrs F dont feel the award our investigator  
recommended Lloyds pay adequately recognises  their experience.  But, in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied £50 is a reasonable amount that fairly  
recognises the impact  this all had. Its in line with what I would have suggested had no offer 
been made, and its consistent with our approach in similar scenarios. So, I wont be telling 
Lloyds to increase  that amount.
I understand that Mr and Mrs F still havent provided Lloyds with adequate  confirmation that 
their policy with E has been cancelled from its date of inception and that any claim with E 
has been permanently  closed. It isnt clear why that information remains outstanding and I 
think its something Mr and Mrs F should be able to obtain from E. 
In order for Lloyds to progress Mr and Mrs Fs claim it will require that information. As Ive 
already explained it isnt unreasonable for Lloyds to insist  on having that information before it 
can proceed with their claim. So, I cant fairly  conclude Lloyds has acted unreasonably in not 
progressing Mr and Mrs Fs claim in the absence of the information it requires.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited 
should pay Mr and Mrs F £50 to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Julie Robertson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2631640