K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim made on his motor 
insurance policy. He wants  increased compensation for the distress caused by its level of 
service. 
background 
Mrs B, a named driver on the policy, had a collision with another driver whilst both were 
reversing their cars. AXA told Mr B and Mrs B it was trying  to settle the claim on a 50/50  
basis. But Mrs B received proceedings from the other driver.  She told AXA but a County  
Court Judgement (CCJ) was applied against  her. Mrs B said her credit card company  
subsequently wanted to close  her account. 
AXA apologised to Mr B and Mrs B for not responding to the other drivers correspondence  
in time. It offered Mr B £500  compensation. The CCJ was removed  from Mrs Bs credit  file 
and AXA provided  her with a letter  saying  that it had been applied in error. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  AXA hadnt 
responded to the other drivers correspondence in time and this had led to the CCJ being 
applied to Mrs B. He thought it was likely this had affected Mrs Bs credit  card account. So 
he thought it should pay a further £150  (£650 in total) compensation for their upset and 
inconvenience. 
AXA didnt reply  to the adjudicators view. So the complaint has come to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business has made an error,  as AXA has done here,  we expect it to restore  the 
consumers position,  as far as its possible to do so. We expect it to consider the impact  of 
the error  on the consumer. 
AXA agreed that it hadnt responded  to the other drivers solicitors in a timely fashion. This 
meant that proceedings were issued and then a CCJ was applied  to Mrs B. To put things 
right, AXA paid Mr B £500 compensation for the distress caused  by the CCJ. It acted to have 
the CCJ removed.  Mr B said he accepted this unless there was a subsequent impact on the 
familys credit.
Mrs B then had a letter from her credit  card company saying  it would cancel her card as it 
was a responsible  lender and referring  her to her credit report. Mr B said the only negative  
information on this was the CCJ. They contacted the credit  card company and it requested  
them to get a letter from AXA saying that the CCJ was an administrative error.  They  did this, 
after pressing AXA for some weeks. The result was that the credit card was reinstated.  
Mr B said the cancellation of the credit card would have had a great  impact  on his family, 
causing hardship and angst. He said he had to chase AXA for six weeks  to get a letter  to 
send to the credit card company  explaining what had happened. 
Ref: DRN27394082I cant see evidence that the familys credit  actually suffered due to the cancellation. But I 
can understand Mr B and Mrs Bs anxiety and the avoidable inconvenience  and hassle 
caused. I also think that AXA could have kept Mr B better informed  about  the claim.  I cant  
see that there was any progress on the case for nine months  after notification until the other 
side issued proceedings. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that AXA should  also compensate  Mr B for this trouble and 
upset. He recommended £150 and I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with 
what Id award in similar situations. 
Mr B said that having the claim settled against him would affect his future premiums. But a 
fault claim would  be recorded  whether the claim was settled  50/50  or in full. So I dont think  
AXA settling the other  drivers claim in full will make any difference  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr B 
a further £150 (£650  in total) compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its 
level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2739408