K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited wont  cover all of her hospital stay under 
her private medical insurance policy. Mrs T is represented in this complaint  by Mrs K. 
background
Mrs T lives in the Channel Islands, where  there  arent NHS hospitals.
In May 2013, Mrs T was admitted as an emergency to a hospital in the Channel Islands after 
having a stroke.  After a few weeks, she was transferred to a rehabilitation ward.
On 1 June 2013, AXA took over Mrs Ts policy from her previous insurer.  On 3 July 2013,  
the hospital made AXA aware that Mrs T was in hospital. It asked if AXA would  cover  her 
hospital stay.  AXA asked for a medical  report. 
A few weeks  later, AXA told Mrs Ts brother that it hadnt heard back  from the hospital.  He 
advised AXA that he was meeting with Mrs Ts specialist the following week, and would 
arrange for a medical report to be sent.  
On 2 August  2013, AXA received a medical report.  This gave some background information 
about Mrs Ts admission and her health problems at the time. It also said that Mrs T was 
appropriate for a nursing home level of care. After considering this, AXA decided  it wanted a 
more in-depth report detailing any active treatment Mrs T had had. It requested  this, but 
didnt receive a response, despite  chasing this several times. 
In October  2013, Mrs T was discharged from hospital. 
In November 2013, AXA still hadnt  received the further information it had asked for. It 
therefore made the decision to turn down the claim, based on the information it had. It 
thought Mrs T had probably only received  medical  treatment when shed first been admitted 
to hospital, which had been  covered by her previous insurer. It thought  her stay in the 
rehabilitation ward  wasnt covered because she hadnt received medical treatment after 
being transferred  there.
After receiving further information about  Mrs Ts hospital stay,  AXA paid for 28 days hospital 
stay and associated  costs under the policys rehabilitation cover. However, it maintained  its 
decision not to cover the costs of the remaining hospital stay because  Mrs T hadnt received  
medical treatment. Unhappy with this, Mrs K brought a complaint to this service  on Mrs Ts 
behalf. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought it had been 
reasonable for AXA to turn down the claim for the remaining hospital stay.   
Mrs K, on behalf of Mrs T, didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the matters been  
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN21159462As I understand it, Mrs Ts previous medical  insurer covered her initial stay in hospital up to 
31 May 2013. When AXA took over the policy on 1 June 2013, Mrs T had already been 
transferred to the rehabilitation ward. The issue for me to decide  is whether AXA was liable  
for the hospital  charges  that were incurred  after 1 June 2013.
AXA says that Mrs T didnt receive  active medical treatment whilst she was on the 
rehabilitation ward. It thinks she was receiving nursing care with some  rehabilitation. As the 
policy covers up to 28 days rehabilitation,  it has paid for 28 days  of the hospital  stay, but 
says it isnt liable for the remaining stay as nursing care isnt covered and it has paid the 
maximum rehabilitation benefit. 
Ive looked at what the policy says.  
The policy explains  it covers treatment of medical  conditions that respond quickly to 
treatment, known as acute conditions. 
Treatment is defined in the policy  as: surgical or medical services (including diagnostic  
tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
The policy says it doesnt cover special nursing in hospital unless AXA has agreed 
beforehand that its necessary and appropriate. 
The policy also says that it will cover in-patient rehabilitation of up to 28 days. 
Mrs Ts family  dont agree with AXA that Mrs T didnt receive  active medical treatment  whilst  
she was on the rehabilitation ward. They say she had x-ray scans  and a feeding tube 
inserted, as well as regular physio and nursing  care.  She was also under regular review by 
doctors. They also say they were  told by the hospital that Mrs T would only be discharged 
once her needs could be met by nursing care alone. As Mrs T wasnt discharged until 
October, they think she was receiving medical  care until this time. 
Ive therefore  looked  at the medical  evidence from 2013.
On 22 May, Dr E (consultant physician) said Mrs T was admitted to hospital on 16 May 
having suffered  a right partial anterior circulation infarct (stroke). Shed also suffered a burn 
to her arm. He explained shed  been on the ward  having blood pressure control, 
rehabilitation, and dressings applied to the burn. Shed also been seen by the ENT surgeons 
because of a narrowed airway. Dr E thought Mrs T was likely to remain  in hospital  for some 
weeks whilst  they initiated secondary prophylaxis and rehabilitation. 
On 31 July, another of Mrs Ts treating doctors  (Dr M) confirmed  that Mrs T had been  
admitted to hospital  via the emergency department on 16 May. He said she was started  on 
aspirin and transferred to a ward for rehabilitation. Dr M confirmed  that Mrs T had a 
gastrostomy tube placed on 11 June, as she wasnt able to meet  her nutritional  needs and 
fluid requirements by mouth. He said her problems at the time of the report  were: - 
immobility, dependence  on tube feeding,  significant cognitive impairment, and neuropathic 
pain. Dr M confirmed that Mrs T wasnt expected to make any substantial improvements in 
her functional ability and would require a high level of ongoing care.  He said She would be 
appropriate for a nursing home level of care. 
On 28 November, Dr E said that Mrs T was admitted to hospital  on 16 May, transferred from 
the acute ward to rehabilitation  on 27 May, and then discharged on 11 October (though 
Ref: DRN21159463according to the clinical  notes,  this was actually 9 October).  He said their attempts to 
improve Mrs Ts mobility,  level of awareness  and ability to care for herself  were  
unsuccessful, and she needed full-time care when  she was discharged.
On 10 December, Dr E said that after Mrs T had been admitted to hospital she made slow 
progress, and was transferred  to the (rehabilitation) ward because  of ongoing problems with 
her feeding. He said a PEG (feeding tube) was inserted. He confirmed live-in  carers were 
arranged and she was discharged in October. Dr E said that when Mrs T was discharged, 
she needed a hoist transfer and she was fed with a PEG  feeding tube.
Ive also looked  at the hospital notes that were made each day whilst Mrs T was on the 
rehabilitation ward. These show that she received general nursing care, as well as some 
physio. She also had three chest  x-rays during her admission. It seems two of those were 
related to the insertion  of a feeding tube, and the third was needed  because  she was a little 
wheezy at the time (though  the x-ray was clear). I note she also had some blood  tests  done. 
Taking all the above evidence  into account, Im minded to agree with AXA that after 1 June, 
Mrs T didnt  receive treatment for her condition (as defined by the policy) and instead she 
received general  nursing care with rehabilitation. Although Mrs T had feeding tubes inserted, 
some chest  x-rays, and blood tests done - I dont think she needed  to be admitted as an 
inpatient for these, as they could have been  done on an outpatient basis.  
Mrs Ts family  make  the point that Mrs T received  a higher level of care whilst  she was on 
the rehabilitation ward than she would have received in a nursing home, due to the regular 
therapy she received. I fully accept that. However,  that doesnt mean AXA is liable  to pay for 
the hospital costs.  The policy doesnt  cover nursing care, and it only covers up to 28 days of 
in-patient rehabilitation  which AXA has paid.  
Mrs Ts family  say that neither the hospital nor AXA told them that Mrs T should be 
discharged sooner rather than later. They say that if they had been aware the hospital 
charges wouldnt  be covered,  they would have  transferred Mrs T to alternative care. 
AXA was only made aware that Mrs T was in hospital a month after it had taken  over the 
policy. When it became aware of this, it didnt say that it would  cover  her hospital stay.  
Instead, it wanted information about her admission  and treatment before it could make a 
claims decision. In early August, it did receive the report  from Dr M which said that Mrs T 
would be appropriate  for a nursing home level of care. 
In hindsight, if AXA had turned down  the claim after receiving Dr Ms report, Mrs Ts family 
could have moved her to alternative care and she wouldnt have incurred further charges. 
But before making  a claims  decision, AXA wanted more information to see if Mrs T had 
received any medical treatment so that it could  see if some of her hospital stay would be 
covered under the policy. I dont think that was unreasonable.  
Also, I dont think it was AXAs responsibility to tell Mrs Ts family what the treating specialist 
thought about Mrs Ts progress. That was the role of the hospital.  AXA had no reason  to 
think Mrs Ts family were unaware  of Dr Ms opinion, particularly as it seems  the report was 
only sent to AXA after Mr Ts brother had met with Dr E on 23 July - it was apparently this 
meeting that had prompted the report being  sent. 
Unfortunately, AXA wasnt able to obtain the further  information it wanted from the hospital, 
which meant that this delayed AXA making a claims decision. That is unfortunate, but I dont 
Ref: DRN21159464think thats AXAs fault. At no point had AXA said that it would cover Mrs Ts hospital  stay, 
and so there was always the possibility the claim would be turned down and Mrs T would be 
liable for the hospital charges. Though once further information  was eventually provided  to 
AXA, it did accept that it was liable for 28 days in-patient rehabilitation benefit.  
Given that Dr M thought Mrs T was appropriate for nursing  home level of care at the end of 
July, I dont know why the hospital didnt discharge  Mrs T at that point. But this would  be 
something that Mrs Ts family/Mrs  K would need  to take up with the hospital  directly. 
Whilst I understand my decision will come as a great  disappointment to Mrs T and her 
family, I think  AXA dealt with the claim appropriately. I dont require it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K, on behalf  of 
Mrs T, to accept  or reject  my decision before 6 September 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115946