K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about Michael  Meese  and Associates  (Meese  and Associates),  an 
appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited (Tenet). A representative made the 
complaint on Mr Rs behalf. The representative says Meese and Associates switched Mr Rs 
personal pension  plan and transferred his final salary pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP), so he could  make an investment in a commercial development in 
Spain called Resina Golf.  The representative  says the transaction  was not execution  only,  as 
Tenet suggests. It says Mr R was given  advice by Meese and Associates. And that, as the 
advice was unsuitable, Tenet  is responsible  for the loss Mr R has suffered due to the failure 
of the Resina Golf investment. 
background
the complaint
Mr R is one of a group of four consumers who have brought similar complaints to us. In the 
complaint form submitted  to us on behalf  of Mr R, his representative says:
Mr R was introduced to Meese  and Associates in order  to invest in a golf course  in 
Spain.
Mr R was told by Meese  and Associates advisor  that he too was investing in the 
development.
Mr R was informed by Meese and Associates that he could switch and transfer his 
pensions into a SIPP to finance  the investment.
Meese and Associates arranged the switch  and transfer to a SIPP.  
Mr R has since discovered he owns shares  in a company  which owns land adjacent  
to a golf course and has planning permission to develop, but that there is no intention  
to complete the development.
Mr R did not understand what execution  only meant and thought  the documents he 
signed (which confirmed Meese and Associates had acted in an execution only 
capacity) were part of the switch  or transfer process.  
Tenet is not right to say that the transactions were carried  out by Meese and 
Associates on an execution only basis. Mr R was given  advice. 
Mr R cant  now transfer his pension  elsewhere  and is trapped  in the SIPP,  continuing 
to pay charges.
Resina Golf
The investment Mr R made took the form of shares  in an unlisted  company called Resina 
Golf. The business  of the company was property development.  It intended  to purchase land 
adjacent to a golf course  in Spain  with a view to acquiring planning permission and then 
building a number  of luxury villas on in it. The life span of the investment was forecast  to be 
five to ten years. 
Ref: DRN25218972the investment group
Mr R (and the other three consumers who have made  similar complaints) was one of a 
group of nine friends and family who each made a number  of property investments. All those 
in the group were introduced to the property investments by a Mr S. Mr S had previously 
worked as a regulated advisor but, at the time of the Resina Golf investment, did not work  for 
a regulated business and was not authorised  to carry out any regulated activities. 
Before he invested  in Resina Golf using  his pension money, Mr R had invested in other 
property investments introduced to him by Mr S. He initially told us that he made these 
investments using his personal savings. But Im now aware that he remortgaged his home to 
raise the majority of the money he invested. 
Some of the group (who have not made  complaints) have provided witness statements, 
which Tenet has submitted to us. The statements are broadly  similar, and include  the 
following recollections: 
The investors were all introduced  to Resina Golf by Mr S. 
Mr S had led them to consider using their frozen pensions to invest  in Resina Golf.
A number of the group had visited Spain to view the land Resina Golf intended to 
develop. 
Mr S acted  as middleman between all the investors and Resina Golf. 
All the investors  were made aware  that Resina Golf was a long term investment and 
they may not be able to get their money back quickly. They expected  to receive  a 
good return in about five years. 
They had each  taken  the decision to invest in Resina Golf under guidance  from Mr S, 
without receiving any advice from Meese and Associates. 
Mr S had discussed the investment  with them, including the potential risks and 
returns. 
Meese and Associates was approached to execute the switch or transfer of their 
existing pensions to a SIPP. They were told Meese and Associates was a qualified  
advisor, required to facilitate the switches  or transfers. 
All the group met with Meese  and Associates for around  two hours to discuss 
matters.
At no time before  during or after the meeting did any of the group ask Meese and 
Associates for any advice.
Meese and Associates advisor  told the members of the group during the meeting 
that he had not seen  any of the documentation  regarding Resina Golf.
Ref: DRN25218973Each member of the group  had signed  a statement confirming Meese  and Associates 
had only provided  an execution only service. They (those providing the witness 
statements) think all the group  understood what this meant. 
One of the statements says Meese and Associates was approached to facilitate a switch to a 
specific SIPP operator. The others say only that Meese and Associates was approached to 
facilitate a switch  or transfer, without mentioning a specific SIPP  operator.  In all cases  the 
statements say they were told Meese  and Associates became involved as a regulated  
advisor was needed to facilitate the switch  or transfer. 
Meese and Associates and Mr S.
Meese and Associates entered into a Professional Introducer Agreement  with Mr S in 
February 2009. The agreement between Meese and Associates and Mr S said the 
introducer shall not provide any investment advice to the clients.
the investment process
The following  documents formed part of the investment process, in the order  listed:  
1.the execution only letter. Mr R signed a pre-prepared execution  only letter written  
to Meese and Associates which said:
 I write to confirm that I have not received any information, advice or 
recommendation from you or your firm in respect  of my decision to transfer my 
personal pension  with [personal  pension provider] and my [name of employer] 
occupational pension to [the SIPP operator]  and invest in Resina Golf Limited  using 
my pension funds.
I understand that this is an illiquid  investment and therefore should  I decide to 
disinvest there may be a delay before I am able to do this.
I confirm I have refused  advice in particular regard to the [name of employer]  
occupational pension and understand that I will be giving up any guarantees that the 
scheme offers in retirement  on transfer.  The pension amount that it offers to me in 
retirement is in my opinion quite  low and I believe  that with 20 years more  to go 
before I intend to retire I can generate a greater income from self-investing the fund.
I regard myself as an experienced and sophisticated  investor,  having  already 
invested in land and property In Spain.
2.the confirmation letter. Meese and Associates wrote  a letter  to Mr R headed 
Execution Only Service which said:
I confirm  acting on your instructions I have submitted your application to [the SIPP 
operator] with the accompanying  discharge  paperwork  from your current  pension  
providers.
You are aware that this transaction  is an execution  only transaction,  meaning that 
you have not asked for advice or received any information or advice from me or my 
firm in respect of the suitability of the transaction.
Ref: DRN25218974It is your decision alone  to transfer  your [pensions] to [the SIPP  operator]  and make  
an investment into Resina Golf Limited. 
We take no responsibility for either  the pension product with [the SIPP  operator] or 
the investments  suitability.
The letter set out the fee Meese and Associates would take for arranging  the 
switches (3% of the pensions total value). 
3.the explanation letter. Mr S wrote  a letter to Meese and Associates explaining the 
circumstances of the introduction of Mr R to Meese and Associates. The letter said:
Following your request I am writing  to you to confirm the circumstances surrounding 
the introduction  of [Mr R] to yourself  by me.
[Mr R] is an existing contact of mine and I originally introduced him to you after he 
decided he wanted  to transfer  his [pensions]  to [the SIPP provider] and use his 
pension fund to buy shares in Resina Golf Limited
During that meeting you made  it very clear to [Mr R] that you could not provide 
advice, any information  on or confirm the suitability of his decision to transfer  the 
pension to [the SIPP provider] and invest the money in the Resina Golf shares. You 
informed him that your role was to receive his instructions  and to carry these out for 
which a fee would be charged. 
He confirmed he was happy to proceed.  I can confirm that he was aware  of and 
understood that the transaction was being  carried out on an execution only basis and 
no liability  fell on you as to the suitability of what he had decided  to do.
4.the advisor declarations.  Meese  and Associates  advisor signed an Advisor  
Declaration and Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration which were provided by the 
SIPP operator. The Off Panel  Illiquid Investment Declaration said Meese and 
Associates had made the client aware  of the risk factors and terms and conditions for 
the investment  named above, set out in the key features and/or prospectus  and other 
documentation provided, and the issues set out above. The Off Panel Illiquid 
Investment Declaration also confirmed  that the client has been made aware of the 
above issues and notwithstanding, still wishes to proceed with the investment.
The issues set out above the Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration referred to were:
1.The risk factors are covered in the key features document and/or the prospectus. 
You must consider these carefully  before deciding either to make this investment.
2.There may not be a cooling  off, or cancellation,  period. Once the application form 
and monies are submitted encashment of the investment may not be possible, or 
may be difficult before the end of any specified term.
3.If there  is no liquid  market in the investment, selling/encashing the investment to 
pay benefits, or for re-investment may be very difficult. This could result in delays 
or restrictions on the benefits payable,
Ref: DRN252189754.Also, if there is no liquid market in the investment, it may be difficult for us to 
obtain a valuation for accounting purposes. If we are unable  to obtain an up to 
date market value  from the manager of the investment, it is our standard policy to 
value such investments at cost (less  any amounts already paid out) for 
accounting purposes
5.If benefits are to commence under your client's pension, or a review of limits  
under income withdrawal  is required, then we are obliged by the Her Majesty's 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to use the market value of assets  when calculating  
the benefits available, if we are unable to obtain an up to dale market  value, we 
may have to value  the investment at cost (less any amounts  already paid out) or 
give the investment  a nil value (if the investment cannot be realised at that time).
6.In the event of death, liquid funds may be required to pay a lump  sum and/or 
pension benefits  to the member's dependants. Certain tax benefits are available 
for the payment of a lump sum benefit,  as long as this is paid within 2 years  of the 
date of death of the member. By the SIPP owning assets that are not readily 
realisable, such tax benefits  may be jeopardised and the payment of death 
benefits may be delayed.
7.The charges  for this type of investment may be higher than those for other types 
of investment. You must ensure  that you understand the nature and level of the 
charges payable before committing to make the investment. Additional  costs  may 
be incurred by [the SIPP operator]  in relation  to the administration  of such  
investments, which will be payable from the SIPP.  
8.If the organisation offering the investment or the investment itself are not 
recognised or authorised by the UK Financial Services Authority, your client will 
not have the protection of the UK Financial Services Compensation Scheme or 
be able to complain  to the Financial Services Ombudsman. However, the 
investment may be subject to regulation in another country and you should 
provide your client with more information as required.
The Advisor  Declaration  said:
I confirm that any commission due will be disclosed to the client and that I am 
authorised to give investment instructions on their behalf. 
I confirm that where the investor must  meet eligibility  criteria to make  a particular 
investment (eg where  an investor  must be a sophisticated or high net worth investor),  
these criteria have been met. 
When Mr R was first contacted by Meese and Associates he was told Meese and 
Associates advisor  had been passed his details by Mr S, as he was considering switching  
and transferring his pensions  and wanted assistance with this on an execution only basis.  
The letter asked Mr R to sign forms enabling  Meese and Associates to obtain  information on 
the pensions Mr R had. Mr R had a small personal  pension, and an occupational pension. 
On 5 March 2010,  Mr R signed  the execution only letter.  The same day he also signed the 
application form to open the SIPP. The named  advisor on the SIPP application was Meese 
and Associates. The total value of the two pensions was about  £41,000.  
Ref: DRN25218976On 7 March 2010,  Meese and Associates sent the confirmation letter  to Mr R. And on 10 
March 2010 the explanation letter was sent from the introducer to Meese  and Associates. 
After Mr Rs money was transferred to the new SIPP,  an application was made to invest 
£35,000 in Resina Golf on 15 April 2010. Meese  and Associates  advisor  signed  the Advisor 
Declaration at this time, and the Off Panel  Illiquid  Investment Declaration on the 14 April 
2010. On 27 May 2010, a further  £4,000  was invested in the shares. Meese  and Associates 
advisor signed a further Advisor Declaration and Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration at 
this time. 
On 3 March 2010,  the SIPP operator had e-mailed  Meese and Associates advisor, in 
response to a query from him. The email  from the SIPP operator said:
Please find attached a copy of our Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration, as discussed  in 
our earlier telephone conversation. 
I understand your concerns surrounding the declaration when  you have not made  the clients 
aware of the risk factors,  terms and conditions of the pension transfers as they have been 
completed execution  only. However we still require the declaration to be completed  for the 
investments to go ahead. If you are satisfied that the clients have received information  on 
the investment  and are aware  of the risk factors albeit not from you, we can accept the 
signed declaration on this basis.
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives 
Tenets guidance to its appointed representatives, given in June 2009, about execution  only 
transactions says:  
Irrespective of whether  an adviser  is dealing with a client on an Execution Only basis  it is 
important to remember that they must  never arrange  a contract  if there is reason to believe 
that the investment is not in the client's best interests. This requirement relates to specific 
FSA Rules. When faced with this sort of situation  the adviser must decline to act for the 
client.
There are also certain high-risk products that must  not be sold to retail clients without the 
benefit of financial  advice. Among these are Unregulated  Collective Investment Schemes  
including EIS, Occupational Pension Transfers and certain guaranteed products. These are 
complex investments  and ordinarily advisers should  not consider arranging  sales  on an 
Execution Only Basis.
Mr Rs recollections 
Mr R told us he made three previous investments on the advice of Mr S:
Spain   invested £75,000.
Dominican Republic - invested £75,000. 
Morocco - invested £15,000.
Ref: DRN25218977Mr R says the Dominican Republic investment was a transfer from the Spain investment, so 
didnt involve any new money. He also said the investments were otherwise funded from his 
savings. But, as mentioned earlier, Ive since become aware that the majority of the money 
actually came from Mr R remortgaging  his home. This remortgage was arranged  by Mr S, 
when he was a regulated  advisor. Mr R has told us Mr S kept rolling  out investments and 
he understood they would take time to mature. It was only later that he realised  things 
werent going as expected (although, as I set out below, I now think  this is unlikely to be the 
case).
 
Mr R has also told us: 
He did not attend a group meeting with Meese  and Associates advisor and Mr S. 
He did not see the Resina Golf Information  Memorandum.
He had one meeting  with Meese  and Associates  advisor, which lasted  for about 
15 minutes. Mr S came  with Meese  and Associates advisor to that meeting, which 
happened at his workplace. 
Mr S advised him to make the investment,  using  his pensions. He said his pensions 
would not be enough to provide  him with sufficient income, and he could get a much 
higher return by making the Resina Golf investment.
Meese and Associates advisor  also told him it was a good  investment, and that he 
was investing  in it himself.  
He is not an expert, and relied on the advice he was given. 
He does not recall  signing  the execution only letter, and did not understand what  this 
meant. 
Tenets submissions on merits
Tenet takes responsibility  for Meese  and Associates actions,  as that business  was 
Tenets appointed  representative. 
Mr R was a knowledgeable and experienced investor, and in particular a 
knowledgeable and experienced investor  in overseas properties. 
All the investors  in the group  to which Mr R belonged decided to invest  in Resina Golf 
before they were  introduced to Meese and Associates. 
The witness statements overwhelmingly support Tenets position  that Mr R has no 
grounds for complaint against Meese  and Associates.  
If any advice was given to Mr R then it must have  been given by Mr S. But that is 
irrelevant to the complaint against  Tenet. Mr S did not act on behalf of Meese and 
Associates or Tenet. 
Ref: DRN25218978Meese and Associates did not provide any advice in relation to the transfer of 
pension funds. Mr R acknowledged that he had not received advice. The letter  (which  
Ive called the execution only letter) could  not in its view have been  clearer.  
Meese and Associates warned  Mr R that the Resina Golf investment may be illiquid. 
I need to consider the guidance published on our website about execution only 
transactions. Following  that guidance should lead to the conclusion  the transaction 
here was an execution only one. 
Meese and Associates was under no duty to give advice to Mr R. Suitability 
considerations only apply where a personal  recommendation  has been made 
(COBS 9.1.1R).  Here,  Meese and Associates made no personal recommendation. 
In some circumstances  an appropriateness  test applies to execution  only business. It 
does not believe  that test applies here. 
Even if such a test did apply, Meese and Associates had sufficient evidence to 
support a conclusion  that an investment in Resina Golf was appropriate for Mr R. 
Tenets submissions on dismissal
Mr R is making  serious allegations against Meese and Associates advisor.  
There is a conflict in the evidence given by the members of the group. This needs to 
be explored by cross-examination. 
I should therefore decide that this is one of those cases  where  the subject matter of 
the complaint  means that it is more suitable for determination by a court  or means it 
should be dismissed without consideration of the merits,  for other  compelling  
reasons. 
further evidence on the merits of the complaint
We recently asked Tenet some questions. We asked, in summary:  
How did Meese and Associates advisor satisfy himself that he was able to sign the 
SIPP operators Off Panel Illiquid Investment Declaration?
Did Meese  and Associates advisor  have regard to Tenets  guidance on execution 
only business when  deciding to act for Mr R?
What meetings does  Meese and Associates advisor recall taking place between him 
and Mr R? What  can Meese and Associates advisor recall being  discussed at those 
meetings?
Does Meese and Associates advisor know how Mr R found the SIPP  operator?  
Ive summarised the main  points made  in response  to these questions as follows:  
Ref: DRN25218979Mr R, and the rest of the group, had said they were disappointed with the 
performance of their pensions, which werent  worth enough to form a realistic  part of 
their retirement planning.
Mr R, along with the rest of the group, said he had read and understood the 
information memorandum for Resina Golf, including the numerous risk warnings it 
contained. 
Mr R, and the rest of the group, were experienced investors acting together  and it 
was clear they were  willing to commit to long term investments.
Meese and Associates advisor  reasonably concluded that Mr R, and the rest of the 
group, understood the investment and that it was appropriate to proceed in the light 
of their experience  and circumstances. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was concerned about signing the SIPP operators 
declaration because he was only acting in an execution  only capacity. He discussed  
this with an advisor colleague (copies  of emails  have been provided  to evidence this 
discussion).
Following the discussion with an advisor  colleague, Meese and Associates advisor  
decided to meet with Mr R, and the rest of the group, individually to check they 
understood the terms and conditions of the investment, the implications and risks,  
and still wanted  to proceed. 
Meese and Associates advisor  also contacted the investment provider, who 
confirmed that any investor could  withdraw  up to the point share certificates  were  
issued. Mr R, and the rest of the group, were told about  this. The certificates were  not 
issued until October  2010, so Mr R had a considerable  amount of time to change his 
mind, if he wanted  to. 
Meese and Associates advisor  cant specifically recall Tenets guidance, but he 
would have had regard to any guidance provided  to him. In any event, we need to 
consider Meese  and Associates advisors  legal and regulatory  obligations.  
Meese and Associates  advisor  was allowed by the regulator to complete business 
on an execution only basis, and was authorised  by Tenet  to do so. 
Meese and Associates advisor  was provided with a copy of the information  
memorandum for Resina Golf at the meeting with Mr R and the rest of the group. He 
reviewed it and discussed its contents  with the group.  
The group  identified the SIPP operator  without Meese and Associates advisor 
assistance. He recalls Mr S telling  him that the provider of Resina Golf had 
mentioned which  SIPP operator would accept  the investment  on an execution only 
basis. 
my first provisional decision
In my first provisional decision  I said I did not think the complaint was one I should dismiss 
as I thought there was sufficient evidence available to allow me to conclude  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN252189710Turning to the merits of the complaint I concluded, on balance,  that Meese  and Associates 
had acted in an execution only capacity. But I took the view that, in the circumstances, 
Meese and Associates, acting fairly and reasonably, should  have declined  to act in this 
capacity. And I concluded that, if Meese and Associates had declined to act as it did, the 
transfer and switch of the pensions and investment in Resina Golf would not have gone 
ahead. 
In short,  I said I was not persuaded Mr R had been  present  at a group meeting where the 
risks of the investment were fully discussed. I thought one brief (Mr R said 15 minutes)  
meeting had taken  place.  So Meese and Associates could not fairly and reasonably  have 
signed the advisor declarations, which were  necessary for the investment to proceed. I also 
noted that Tenets own guidance said this was not the sort of transaction  which  should  
proceed on an execution  only basis. 
Tenets response to my first provisional decision  
Tenet did not accept  my provisional decision. It said, in summary: 
It fully accepts that in most cases that involve  a dispute about  the circumstances of 
the transaction it is difficult  to determine  and that we hence  determine things on the 
balance of probabilities. Where  this case differs significantly is the fact that the 
transactions took place at a meeting where  at least nine people  were present, all of 
whom were  friends/family of the Mr R, and some of whom have given sworn 
statements. 
Given there are sworn witness statements from those present which completely 
contradict Mr R, it fails to see how I can reach a conclusion I am persuaded Mr R 
was not present at the group  meeting. Similarly, it fails to see how Mr Rs evidence 
persuaded me that only one 15 minute  meeting took place.
Where there is evidence from multiple individuals that Mr R was present at the group  
meeting, and only Mr R states he wasnt, on the balance  of any probability,  I must 
conclude he was present or allow the matter  to be tested through  cross  examination.  
For all parties,  the fairest approach to this matter is for me to either  dismiss the 
complaint to allow the matter to proceed  in Court or permit an oral hearing so we can 
cross examine  the witnesses.
It should be repeated  that Mr R says he had made three previous investments into 
foreign property on the advice of Mr S.
It believes that Mr R was present at the group meeting when the risks associated 
with the investment were discussed by Meese and Associates advisor. Meese  and 
Associates advisor also states that he held a follow up meeting with Mr R; it is likely 
this meeting is the 15 minute meeting Mr R refers to.
Meese and Associates advisor  confirmed in his response to the further questions  
raised by FOS that Mr R, along  with the rest of the group, said he had read and 
understood the information memorandum for Resina Golf, including  the numerous 
risk warnings  it contained. It is fair and reasonable for Meese  and Associates advisor 
to rely upon  the information provided to it by the individuals. 
Ref: DRN252189711Mr R had resolved to transfer  his pension funds and invest in Resina Golf before he 
had ever met Meese  and Associates advisor. Given that Mr R was intent on pursuing  
this transaction,  notwithstanding any rules that may exist in COBS or otherwise, Mr R 
would have continued to pursue the investment via another  adviser  even if Meese 
and Associates advisor had declined to act, and he had a track  record of doing  so 
having made three previous investments into foreign  property. 
It is plainly incorrect to say Meese and Associates involvement was necessary to 
allow these instructions to be executed. Mr R would have found another adviser 
had Meese and Associates advisor  not acted in the execution only manner he did. 
As such,  it is unreasonable to hold Meese  and Associates  advisor/Tenet as the 
cause of the loss.
Its position is that Meese  and Associates advisor in exercising his duties has:
ocomplied with Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses by making Mr R 
aware of the risks involved in the transaction  and ensuring he had understood 
them; 
odid pay due regard  to the interests  of the customer;
odid fully comply with COBS.
Given the significant impact on the adviser and the complete  inconsistency in the 
evidence regarding  what happened,  it can only be fair and reasonable for me to 
dismiss this case  to allow the courts to assess and allow  for thorough  cross 
examination.
further information  provided by Mr R.
Whilst reconsidering Mr Rs complaint I noticed on our system another  complaint from 
Mr R, which  had been brought against a different business in relation to mortgage advice 
given by Mr S when he was a regulated  advisor.  That complaint was referred  to us in 2015  
and closed some time ago. The complaint  was about advice that had been given to Mr R to 
remortgage his home to raise funds for the £75,000  investment in Spain Ive referred to 
above. In that complaint it was found that Mr R had been aware  in 2009 the investment he 
made had failed. This finding was accepted by the solicitors acting on Mr Rs behalf  in that 
complaint. 
On further investigation, I have  found that the Spanish investment Mr R made was in a 
development called Estepona Beach, which was run by a business  called Ocean View 
Properties. The money Mr R paid was a deposit on a property, and the remainder was 
supposed to be funded  by a mortgage.  However, nothing was ever built.  It appears that 
Mr R, like some other investors in this development, were  offered the option  of transferring 
their deposit  to another development in the Dominican Republic, called Punta Perla.  
However, this also was not built. Ocean View Properties went  into liquidation  in 2009. 
As a result of this, the following email  was sent by me to Mr R:
In my provisional decision I said: 
Ref: DRN252189712 It seems Mr Rs only experience  beyond the limited experience  provided  by his pensions  
 was with investments he says Mr S recommended to him. And at the time of making the 
Resina Golf investment  Mr R had no reason to believe those other  investments  were  going 
to go wrong.
Ive since become aware of a previous complaint made by Mr R, against  [business details 
removed], which was referred to us by Mr R. That complaint was about the mortgage Mr R 
had taken out in 2005 through  an appointed  representative of [business  details removed],  to 
raise around  £85,000 to invest in an Ocean View overseas  property development. In that 
complaint solicitors acting  on Mr Rs behalf  say the facts they had obtained from Mr R were  
that he had been introduced to the investment by Mr S, had been told at the time by Mr S 
that it was no risk, and been advised by Mr S to borrow money on a mortgage  in order to 
invest.  
Our adjudicator concluded that Mr R would have  been aware that the Ocean View property 
investment had failed  in 2009, when Ocean View  had gone  into liquidation. She noted that 
the liquidators of Ocean  View had written directly  to all investors  at this time. On this basis,  
she thought Mr R had made his complaint  outside the time limits set out in our rules. In their 
response to the adjudicator the solicitors acting for Mr R said he was aware that the 
investment had failed,  but argued that did not give him cause  to complain about the 
mortgage advice  he had been given.   
So the evidence  and arguments submitted on Mr Rs behalf on this complaint show  that he 
made the Ocean  View  investment  in the belief  it had no risk associated with it, but was 
aware in 2009  (before  he made the Resina Golf investment) that the investment had failed, 
and he had lost his money.  This suggests that my finding quoted above is not a fair reflection 
of things. And I note Mr R made no comment on this when responding to my provisional 
decision. 
Id like to ask Mr R to make any comments on this which hed like me to take into account. 
Id also like Mr R to detail his recollections  of any conversations he might have had with Mr S 
about this investment, and to provide us with copies  of all the correspondence he has 
received in relation to it, by post or email, and from any party.
In reply to this Mr R said: 
With regards to the investment made  through  ocean  view advised by [Mr S]. [Mr S] advised 
me of this investment and also arranged for a trip to Spain in order  to view the area of 
development. [Mr S] advised that I could release the money required by remortgaging and 
releasing the equity  from my property. After years  of waiting  for the development to emerge 
he then arranged for my investment to be switched to Punta Perla in Dominican Republic. 
He constantly  used to advise that there are on going  negotiations between  the developers  
and the local authorities.  We believed him because my older brother [name removed] had 
introduced me to him as he had done  business  with him previously and was also advising 
me to be patient and wait. In quite a short period  of time we also invested  in Morocco.  When 
we finally  found  out the ocean view had gone into administration [Mr S] told us to be patient 
as he was working with the developers and local authorities to make sure we got our 
investment. These messages would come from [Mr S] and also [Mr Rs older brother  -name  
removed].
Ref: DRN252189713[Mr S] advised me of the Resina Golf course  and introduced me to [Meese and Associates 
advisor]. This meeting took place between the 3 of us at my work place one afternoon. He 
told me this is a good investment to make while he is still working  for us on our original  
investment in Spain. At this point I was still made to believe him and trust what he has been 
telling me. From what I can recall  our complaints about the Spain investment were made 
after our pensions were  released for Resina Golf. I did approach  [a claims management 
company] but that was in 2015. All these investments happened very quickly one after the 
other but at no point  did we all meet  as one large group with [Mr S] and [Meese and 
Associates advisor] . I don't recall  to the best of my recollection submitting  a claim or 
complaint before the Resina Golf investment.
He then sent a follow-up  email:
I would just like to add that all investments were introduced to us by [Mr S] and advised  
these will be part of our retirement plans. I never received any letter of notice from ocean 
view advising  they had gone into administration we actually found  out by searching on the 
Internet. Even throughout this time [Mr S] kept advising that he is still in talks with the 
developers and will take time. I kept trusting  what he kept saying and what was always fed 
back to me by [Mr Rs older brother  - name removed] who was [Mr S]s main contact and 
port of call. My only regret  is that I didn't act and take this action a lot sooner. 
my second  provisional decision 
In my second provisional decision  I maintained  that Meese and Associates had acted  in an 
execution only capacity.  And I remained of the view that, in the circumstances, 
Meese and Associates, acting fairly and reasonably, should  have declined  to act in this 
capacity. But I said I was now of the view this would not have changed the course of things   
given the new evidence, I was satisfied that Mr R would have gone ahead  with the pension 
transfer and switch, and the investment in Resina Golf, regardless.  My findings  are attached 
to this final decision. 
Tenet accepted my decision, and made no further comments. 
Mr R did not accept my decision. He said, in summary:
A lot of assumptions  have been  made by me when reaching  my decision.  I should 
not be making by decision  on the basis of assumptions. And the assumptions  I have  
made are wrong. 
He is clearly not an experienced investor,  and never has been. He was nave, gullible 
and trusting. 
Meese and Associates advisor  and Mr S advised him what  a great investment 
Resina Golf was and how much money it would make him. They painted a glossy  
picture for him and told him what he wanted to hear. They both knew about his 
financial position and they both focused on the benefits. 
Not once did either Meese and Associates advisor or Mr S mention any risk or look 
into the suitability  of the investment  for him. 
Mr S advised him whilst not being  regulated and Meese and Associates advisor  
knowing this agreed with everything he said.  
Ref: DRN252189714Meese and Associates advisor  should  have advised him that this was not a good 
investment. He had a care of duty which he neglected. He should  have  acted in his 
best interests. 
Not at any moment was the term execution only mentioned  or explained.  
He has since approached several other  financial advisors and all have advised that it 
was a bad investment  and not suitable  for him. 
The Resina Golf investment was presented to him by his older brother and Mr S. 
They both painted  such a great picture and told him how he would benefit when he 
came to retire because it would treble in value, if not more. 
He wasn't convinced because he was heavily  in debt. He was not convinced  about 
taking another  gamble because he knew absolutely nothing about pensions and how 
they can be used  for investments. But he felt this would  make up for all the 
investments he had lost on. He was thinking  about what  he had already lost and what 
he could lose if he didn't invest.
He knew many people  were going  to make this investment  and a group of them even 
went out to Spain  to view the area. But he did not visit Spain.  
He knew Mr S was coming to see him on a particular  day and he was bringing with 
him a financial advisor who would be able to advise more on and complete the 
transaction. 
During this short  meeting  Mr S once again  explained the money to be made from this 
and Meese and Associates advisor  agreed,  underlined  everything Mr S said, and 
advised him that he also had invested  £30,000 and he needed  to act quick and not to 
miss out on this opportunity. They both spoke about his failed investments and 
advised him on how he could easily double in profit what  he had lost. 
He never  knew what a SIPP was and what its purpose is. This was all done 
by Meese and Associates advisor.  
The execution only letter was dated  5 March 2010. But the fund transfer form was 
dated 13 October 2009 he did not sign an execution only letter at that time. 
my findings
I remain satisfied, for the reasons set out in my provisional findings, that this complaint is 
one I can and should consider and, as neither party has made any comment on my 
provisional findings on these points, I see no reason to add to those findings.  So Ive 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN252189715There remain three things  to think about here:
Did Meese  and Associates act in an execution only capacity (i.e. did it not give 
advice)? and (if so)
Was it fair and reasonable, in the circumstances, for Meese and Associates to act in 
that capacity? and (if it wasnt)
What impact has this had? 
Mr R in his reply to my provisional decision says that Meese and Associates advisor 
encouraged him to make the investment.  Having  reconsidered  things,  I am still not 
persuaded that Meese and Associates gave any advice. I think it likely that Meese and 
Associates acted in an execution  only capacity.  I know Mr R recalls Meese and Associates 
advisor endorsing  the advice of Mr S, or offering his own advice over and above  that given 
by Mr S. But its not clear  why, in those circumstances,  Mr R signed the execution only letter.  
I appreciate he does not recall that term being used, but I think the letter  was written in clear 
terms, and it was personal to him (referring specifically to his occupational pension).  So I 
think it likely  he understood it contents  when he signed it. 
I also think that Mr R had resolved to make the investment before he met with Meese and 
Associates advisor.  Its clear hed discussed  with Mr S, and with his older brother, and had 
been told of the prospect of him making high returns from it. And hed made his previous 
investments on the advice  of Mr S, and following discussion with his older brother, without 
the involvement of any other parties. 
So Im not persuaded that Meese  and Associates advisor gave any advice.  But even if 
Meese and Associates advisor did encourage Mr R to make the investment, for the reasons 
set out below, and the reasons given in my provisional decision, I am not persuaded that 
changes things. But before moving  on to that point, I should say I remain of the view that it 
was not fair and reasonable for Meese and Associates to act in an execution only capacity  
here. I think  Meese and Associates advisor  should have given advice, if he was going  to act. 
There was an obvious risk of consumer detriment, and he could not be confident that the 
declarations he was making, which allowed  the switch, transfer and investment to go ahead, 
were true. In particular,  I have not seen sufficient evidence to show  it was fair and 
reasonable for Meese  and Associates advisor  to conclude Mr R understood the risks of 
what he was doing. And so he should  not have made a declaration that was the case.  
If Meese and Associates  had not acted  as it did, it had two other options  to refuse to act at 
all or, as mentioned,  to give advice, so its advisor could sign the declarations in the 
knowledge that Mr R had been  given  a full explanation of things. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I remain of the view this has had no 
impact. In summary, those reasons are: 
Ref: DRN252189716I think it more  likely than not Mr R was aware  the investment he had made  in 2005 
had failed, or had at least encountered  significant  problems, by the time the Resina 
Golf investment was proposed to him by Mr S. 
So Mr R did have some awareness of the risks associated with investments of this 
type  he knew  they could  go wrong. His willingness to make  the investment  in 
Resina Golf nonetheless also suggests he had strong will to follow a course of action 
recommended to him by Mr S.
Mr R says he trusted Mr S because his older  brother had introduced him to Mr S, and 
had done business  with him previously 
Mr R says, at the time,  he believed  in Mr S and trusted what he told him. 
Mr R was also very reliant on what his older  brother said to him. And it seems  his 
older brother, in turn, was in thrall  to Mr S. 
So he would have  gone ahead even if Meese and Associates had advised him not to, 
or refused to act. He would  either  have proceeded against Meese and Associates 
advice, have found another advisor (and proceeded against that advice) or have 
found a way of proceeding  without  the need for the involvement of a regulated 
advisor. 
Mr Rs reply to my second provisional  decision supports some of these points. He describes 
Resina Golf as a gamble in an effort to make  back some of the money he had lost. I know 
Mr R may not have been told of the full risks associated with Resina Golf.  But this does 
show that, at the time, he was aware he had lost money through  similar previous 
investments, and that he knew  Resina Golf was not certain to be successful. I do not think  
he would  otherwise describe it as a gamble. 
So I remain  of the view Mr R would have  proceeded independently of anything Meese and 
Associates did. If Meese and Associates had advised him not to do make  the switch,  transfer  
and investment I think, at the time, Mr R would still have listened  to his older brother and to 
Mr S and gone ahead  and made  the investment  anyway. And I dont think  the position  would 
be any different if Meese and Associates  had refused to act. I do not think  the opinion of any 
other advisor  would  have  outweighed Mr Ss and Mr Rs older  brother. And Mr R may have 
found a way of proceeding  without  involving  a regulated advisor at all. 
I think this also means  that if Meese  and Associates did, as Mr R says, encourage him to 
make the investment that has not had an impact either. I dont  think  that encouragement was 
critical. Mr R may have taken some  comfort from it, but I think  he would have gone ahead  
whether he was encouraged by Meese and Associates advisor or not. So even if I am wrong 
about the execution only point, I do not think that changes the overall outcome of this 
complaint. 
Overall, my decision remains as set out in my second provisional decision,  for the 
reasons given here and in my second  provisional decision.  To be clear, the findings in my 
second provisional decision, attached below, form part of this final decision. 
Ref: DRN252189717my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN252189718copy second provisional decision findings
my findings 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision, I remain satisfied that this complaint  is one within 
my compulsory jurisdiction  i.e. it is one I can look at. Neither party  has disputed  this. 
The main points Tenet has made in its response to my provisional decision can be summarised  as 
follows:
I should  either dismiss the complaint to allow  the matter  to proceed in court or permit  an oral 
hearing so the witnesses can be cross examined. 
It is not fair to find Meese and Associates advisor  should  not have acted. He was entitled to 
rely on what Mr R told him, and Mr R said he understood the risk associated with the 
investment. 
Mr R would have gone ahead and made the investment even if Meese and Associates  
advisor had not acted.  Mr R had resolved  to make the investment before  he was introduced to 
Meese and Associates advisor. 
I have not been persuaded to change my view on the first two points, but I have been  persuaded to 
change my view on the third point, in the light of the further information provided  by Mr R summarised 
above. I have set out my reconsideration of things below. 
As Tenet  maintains I should dismiss  the complaint or hold an oral hearing, I have first reconsidered 
this. 
dismissal 
As a reminder, the relevant  rules here are the following sections of DISP  3.3.4 Grounds for Dismissal:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint  referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service before 9 
July 2015 without considering its merits if the Ombudsman  considers that:
(10) it would  be more suitable for the subject matter of the complaint to be dealt with by a court, 
arbitration or another complaints scheme; or
(17) there are other compelling reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under  
the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I acknowledge there are some conflicts in the recollections of some of the parties  who have provided 
evidence. But I remain satisfied that I can fairly decide this complaint, notwithstanding any conflicts  
between the recollections of some  of the parties involved. So I remain of the view the complaint is one 
on which I am able to make a decision  on what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Im 
satisfied that decision can be made by reference to the available evidence  and relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  appropriate) 
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.  
I therefore  remain of the view that this complaint is not one where the subject matter makes it more  
suitable to be dealt with by the courts. Or that I should dismiss it for other compelling  reasons. 
oral hearing
Ref: DRN252189719Another ombudsman  has already dealt with Tenets request for an oral hearing. The ombudsman 
declined that request.  When doing so, he pointed out that we do not have the power to test evidence  
by cross-examination. So a request to conduct a hearing on this basis was misplaced. That remains 
the case. 
The ombudsman also pointed  out that, unlike  a court, we have the power to make our own 
investigation. Here, as Tenet acknowledges  in its reply to my provisional decision,  a thorough 
investigation has taken  place. And both Tenet and Mr R have had ample opportunities to make 
submissions. 
As mentioned  above, I am also satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly  determine on the basis of the 
evidence available. So, like the other ombudsman, I do not think  a hearing is necessary  here. 
the remaining  points
As I am satisfied this complaint is one I can and should consider I have reconsidered  all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When doing so, I have again taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, 
guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. 
There is no dispute about my finding that, on balance, the transaction was likely an execution  only 
one. I remain of that view, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision. Those reasons  were, in 
summary:
Mr R had decided to make  the investment in Resina Golf and switch  or transfer his existing 
pensions to the SIPP to fund it, before  being introduced to Meese and Associates. 
It is also clear  that discussions between Mr S and Mr R (and the remainder of the group) 
about the Resina Golf investment, and using pension  money to fund the investment,  had 
taken place  before  Mr R was introduced to Meese and Associates.  
The available  evidence suggests it was Mr S and not Meese  and Associates who gave 
advice. 
A number  of members of the investment group  have  provided witness statements  in which  
they stated that Meese and Associates advisor  did not give any advice on Resina Golf or the 
switch (or transfer) to a SIPP. 
The execution only letter, which  Mr R signed, was written in clear terms. The letter said I 
confirm I have not received any information, advice or recommendation from you in respect of 
my decision to transfer my pensions.and  invest in Resina Golf.
Meese and Associates advisor  wrote to Mr R after the application for the SIPP had been 
made and said You are aware  that this transaction is an execution only transaction, meaning 
that you have not asked for advice  or received  any information or advice from me or my firm 
in respect of the suitability of the transaction. It is your decision  alone  to transfer your 
[pensions] to [the SIPP  operator] and make an investment into Resina Golf.
Ive not seen any evidence that Mr R expressed any concern about  accepting these 
statements, or queried them. So I think its fair to say, at the time, Mr R accepted this as a fair 
reflection of the role Meese  and Associates had taken.  
Ref: DRN252189720The SIPP  operator says it has no record of any contact with Meese  and Associates before it 
received Mr Rs application.  It has also told us it wasnt asked  if it would  accept Resina Golf 
before the initial  applications were made for SIPPs  by some  of the group of investors  (Mr Rs 
application arrived later). When the SIPP operator was asked if it would  accept Resina  Golf, it 
explained it needed an off panel investment instruction and for the advisor declarations to be 
signed. It appears that prompted the query from Meese and Associates to which the SIPP 
operator replied by email (quoted in the background section  above) on 3 March 2010. That 
query suggests Meese and Associates advisor  had no knowledge  of the SIPP operators 
processes or requirements until he was told about them by the SIPP  operator. 
In response to our request for more information, Meese and Associates  advisor  said his 
recollection is that it was Mr R (along with the rest of the group) who selected the SIPP 
operator. He has also said he recalls  that Mr S mentioned that the provider of the Resina Golf 
investment knew  the SIPP operator would  accept  the investment on an execution  only basis. I 
think this recollection  is plausible. I think it likely Mr S found out which SIPP  operator would 
accept the investment,  and told Mr R and/or Meese and Associates advisor this. 
If Meese and Associates  had given  advice on which SIPP would  be suitable, Id expect  it to 
have taken steps  to ascertain whether the SIPP would accept the Resina Golf investment,  
and on what basis it would be accepted. Particularly as another SIPP operator had previously  
declined to accept the investment on an execution only basis. In the event, it seems these  
steps were taken by Mr S. 
I also remain  of the view, for the reasons set out in my first provisional decision, that Meese  and 
Associates advisor should not have acted as he did. I say this because: 
Meese and Associates advisor  says he would  have had regard to guidance provided  to him 
by Tenet.  That guidance said he should never arrange a contract  if there is reason  to believe 
that the investment is not in the clients best interests. It also said that certain high-risk 
products, such as occupational pension transfers, must not be sold without  the benefit of 
financial advice. So he should have been aware  that this was a contract which  Tenet said 
should never be arranged on an execution only basis. 
Meese and Associates advisor  likely knew Mr S, an unregulated individual,  had given  advice 
to Mr R. That was contrary to the agreement between Meese and Associates and Mr S. 
Meese and Associates advisor  knew that the declarations he signed for the SIPP operator 
were necessary to allow  the investment to go ahead. And he ought to have known the 
purpose of those  declarations was consumer  protection. The operator of the SIPP wanted 
Meese and Associates advisor  to declare  that he had made  sure Mr R knew what he was 
getting into. 
The only acknowledgement of understanding of risk Mr R was asked to give by Meese  and 
Associates advisor  was in the execution only letter, where Mr R declared  I understand that 
this is an illiquid investment and therefore should I decide to disinvest there may be a delay 
before I am able to do this. This falls a long way short of providing a full and balanced 
explanation of the risks. Meese and Associates advisor could therefore take little comfort 
from it. And there is insufficient evidence  to show that Meese and Associates  advisor could 
have otherwise been assured that he should sign the advisor declarations.  
However, I am now of the view that Mr R would  have gone  ahead and made  the investment even if 
Meese and Associates advisor  had not acted as he did. 
I think  it more likely than not Mr R was aware the investment he had made in 2005 had failed, or had 
at least  encountered significant problems,  by the time the Resina Golf investment was proposed to 
him and the rest of the investment group  by Mr S. 
Ref: DRN252189721This suggests, at this time, Mr R did have some awareness of the risks associated with investments of 
this type  he knew  they could go wrong. His willingness to make the investment  in Resina Golf 
nonetheless also suggests he had strong will to follow a course of action recommended to him by Mr 
S, which was being followed  by the remainder  of the investment  group. So it suggests there was a 
degree of insistence on making  this investment on Mr Rs part. 
Alternatively, if Mr R did not think there was a problem with the 2005 investment by the time the 
Resina Golf investment was proposed to him by Mr S (and I think this is unlikely) this would  suggest  
that Mr R attached  a great deal of weight  to what Mr S said.  He was prepared to accept the 
investment would be ok even through the completion date had long since  passed with nothing being  
built and the business offering the investment  had gone  into liquidation.  This again  shows a strong will 
to follow a course of action  recommended to him by Mr S. So it again  suggests  its likely  there was a 
degree of insistence on Mr Rs part.
I also think  Mr Rs latest comments about his older brother and his trust in Mr S are important.  Mr R 
has told us: 
We believed him [Mr S] because my older brother [name removed]  had introduced  me to him as he 
had done business with him previously 
[Mr S] advised  me of the Resina Golf course . At this point I was still made  to believe him and 
trust what he has been telling  me. 
I would just like to add that all investments were introduced to us by [Mr S] and advised  these will be 
part of our retirement plans. . I kept trusting what he [Mr S] kept saying and what  was always fed 
back to my by [Mr Rs older brother - name removed] who was [Mr S]s main  contact and port of call. 
This shows that at the time of the Resina Golf investment Mr R had a lot of trust in Mr S, and also that 
he was very reliant on what his older brother said to him. And it seems his older brother, in turn, was 
in thrall to Mr S. So I think it likely both Mr S and Mr Rs older bother  would have encouraged  Mr R to 
make the investment that Mr R would  have  attached a lot of weight to what was he was told by them. 
Again, this suggests a degree of insistence on making the investment on Mr Rs part. 
I think  there were two alternatives open to Meese and Associates advisor,  had he not acted  as he 
did. One was to refuse to act at all. The other was to give Mr R advice. And, in the light of what I say 
above, Im now of the view that neither of those alternatives would have achieved a different result. I 
think, in either event,  Mr R would still have gone ahead, transferred and switched his pensions,  and 
made the investment  in Resina Golf. 
Had Meese and Associates advisor given advice, acting fairly and reasonably, and mindful of his 
regulatory obligations, I think that advice should have included clear  warnings about the full extent of 
the risk Mr R would be taking, and clear advice to not transfer or switch away from his existing 
pensions. But I think, in such circumstances, Mr R would still have listened to his older brother and Mr 
S, and gone  ahead and made  the investment regardless. 
Risk warnings would  have been unlikely to deter Mr R as hed clearly already formed the view this 
was a good opportunity, based on what hed been told by people he trusted  his older  brother and Mr 
S. It also seems  likely Mr R had already experienced the downsides of such investments  so he was 
prepared to make a similar investment on the advice of Mr S despite the likely failure of a previous 
investment. And I think it unlikely Mr R would  have attached more weight  to advice  from Meese  and 
Associates advisor than he would to what he was being told by his older brother and Mr S, in these 
circumstances. 
Having made  Mr R aware of all the risks, it would  have been fair and reasonable for Meese  and 
Associates advisor to sign the advisor  declarations. So I think  the transfer, switch  and investment 
would have gone ahead, had advice been  given by Meese  and Associates. 
Ref: DRN252189722Had Meese and Associates advisor refused to act at all I think it unlikely that would have deterred Mr 
R, in the circumstances. I think his insistence on making  the investment would have been sufficient  for 
him  or, more  likely,  his older brother and/or  Mr S  to have  explored alternatives.  Other members  of 
the group who had attempted  to invest  a little earlier  than Mr R had already been turned away by one 
SIPP operator. But they had sought  out another SIPP operator, rather than giving up. So I think  a 
refusal by Meese  and Associates advisor to act would have led Mr R, or Mr S and/or other members  
of the group, to find another advisor  who would  have given advice (in which  case such advice would 
likely have been as I have set out above, and achieved  the same outcome).  Or to find a SIPP 
operator which did not require a regulated advisor to be involved (I think  this would  have been 
possible at the time). So I am satisfied  an alternate route to making  the switch and transfer, and 
investment, would have been found. 
Overall, this means that although I empathise with the position Mr R finds  himself  in, and do still feel 
that it would have  been  fair and reasonable  for Meese and Associates  not to have acted  as it did, I do 
not think  it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  the complaint. I am no longer persuaded  that 
Meese and Associates could have done anything to change  the course  of events. I think it more  likely 
than not that Mr R would have invested in Resina  Golf,  no matter what Meese  and Associates did, 
and would therefore have  suffered his loss regardless.  So my revised provisional  decision is that this 
complaint should not be upheld.  
Ref: DRN2521897