K820x#14summary and background to complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy taken out in August 1994 in connection with a mortgage. 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BOI) says that a broker was responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage and associated PPI. So BOI says that it was not responsible  for the sale of the 
PPI. It says that Business B  who it believes was an agent  of Business A  sold the policy.
An adjudicator has looked at the case and agreed  that BOI wasnt responsible for the sale of 
the PPI. Mr and Mrs S have asked  for an ombudsman to look into this so the case  has come 
to me to make a decision.  
I set out in my provisional decision dated 30 March  2019 why I was minded to find that BOI 
wasnt responsible  for the sale of the PPI. I invited both parties  to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.  
No further submissions have been provided  by either BOI or Mr and Mrs S.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I set out the following:
The first thing I need to decide is whether BOI is responsible for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  
done. If I dont think BOI was responsible  for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs S, 
then Im not going  to be able to uphold  a complaint about the PPI sale against it.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and considered what BOI and Mr and Mrs S 
have told us about the sale.  
The mortgage in this case was provided  by BOI. Ive looked at the mortgage 
application form which has been completed  with Mr and Mrs Ss details and signed 
by them  dated  23 December 1993. Under  the Your  Insurance Requirements 
heading, a tick has been marked next to the box Accident, Sickness  and 
Unemployment Cover.   So Im satisfied that the PPI was discussed  at the time the 
mortgage application was completed.
By way of background, I have  seen  another earlier BOI mortgage application form 
completed by Mr and Mrs S in August 1993  for a different property. The box for PPI 
has also been ticked on this application  form. It seems that this purchase didnt go 
ahead as there is a note on the front of the later December 1993 application form 
saying New property details.
I have seen copies  of various  correspondence between Business  A and BOI in 
relation to both of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  applications. 
I have seen a note from Business A to the Mortgage  Department of BOI dated  21 
September 1993 relating  to the property in the August 1993 mortgage application. 
Ref: DRN27616642This attaches various documents  including the application form, references and 
payslips. I have seen  a letter from Business B to Business A dated  17 September 
referring to Business As enquiry in respect  of Mr and Mrs S and enclosing some  of 
the documents in Business As later letter to BOI. So it appears that Business B has 
sent some  information  (including the mortgage  application form) to Business A which  
Business A has then forwarded on to BOI. So I am satisfied  that BOI were  not 
responsible for completing the August 1993 mortgage application form with Mr and 
Mrs S.
I have seen a letter dated 4 November  from BOI to Business A enquiring as to 
whether it still wished to proceed with the mortgage application. I have then seen a 
note from Business A to BOI dated 4 January 1994  relating to the property in the 
December 1993  mortgage application  which is the mortgage this case relates to. 
This says Please now find new property details enclosed, the valuation report  will 
follow shortly and encloses unspecified documents. There  is also a letter  from 
Business A to Business  B dated 4 January 1994 thanking it for the mortgage 
application and requesting further details. 
Having considered these documents, Im satisfied that Business A and Business B 
were still involved in Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  application in December  1993.  Given 
that Business  A forwarded  documents  relating  to this mortgage to BOI on the same 
date as it thanked Business B for Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application, I think  it is 
most likely that Business  A was sending Mr and Mrs Ss application to BOI at this 
point.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that BOI was not responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage and associated PPI. As BOI didnt sell the PPI (and wasnt  responsible  for 
the intermediary who did sell it), Im minded to find that BOI wasnt responsible  for 
the sale. It follows that it wasnt responsible for carrying out the sale properly. So, as I 
dont think it has done anything wrong,  Im intending not to uphold the complaint 
against BOI.
The company which is responsible for the sale of the PPI is Business A and it 
appears that Business B was its agent, so Mr and Mrs S would  have to complain to 
this company about the mis-sale. However,  I can only consider a complaint if it falls 
within certain criteria laid down in our case-handling  rules, which are found in the 
DISP section of the Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook (available online). 
The event that Mr and Mrs S have complained about is insurance intermediation, that 
is, the marketing, advising  and selling of insurance, etc. This did not become a 
regulated activity until 14 January 2005.  
This sale took place  in 1993 and Business A was not subject to our compulsory 
jurisdiction at this time. The rules  do allow me to consider  some  complaints about the 
sale of insurance before  January 2005  where the business was subject to a former 
scheme at the relevant time. But Business A was not a member  of any of these 
schemes at the relevant time (and it did not need  to be because  they were  mostly 
voluntary). So it follows that I wouldnt be able to consider this complaint against 
Business A either if Mr and Mrs S did complain  about it.
Ref: DRN27616643I can only consider complaints which fall within my jurisdiction under the case-
handling rules  which I must apply.  Therefore,  Mr and Mrs S can complain  to 
Business A, but if they dont like the answer, this service wont  have the power to 
look at the complaint against Business A. I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed  
that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  help them on this occasion.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and 
whether BOI treated  them unfairly.  BOI has told us that the commission  for Mr and 
Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what they paid for each premium. Weve  looked at 
how BOI has been working this out and based  on what weve seen it looks  like its 
right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats 
the case, I dont  think it needed to tell them about the commission   so I dont think  
BOI treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs S back  any 
of the commission  they paid for the PPI.
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
I know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed that Im reaching this conclusion. Im sorry we cant  
help them on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that is that 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc wasnt  responsible  for the sale of the PPI and therefore I dont 
uphold this complaint against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Rachel Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761664