K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1986. 
Lloyds couldnt  confirm how or exactly  when  PPI was sold to Mr M. But its clear  he had it on 
his account so it mustve  been added either when Mr M took out his credit card or some time 
after. 
In 2002, Mr M completed an application  to upgrade his credit card and he also ticked yes to 
have PPI when  he did that. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mr Ms main  complaints  are that he wasnt aware  that PPI was optional  and couldve been  
refused. And hes unhappy because he feels hes been charged  for a product that he never 
asked for and didnt  need.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from 1986  is no longer  available. And its not surprising that Mr M 
told us he found  it difficult to recall some  information. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr M to be able to remember everything  that happened so long ago. So I cant  know exactly  
what the bank  mightve  said to Mr M about  PPI when he took out his credit card. 
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. It looks  to me as if 
Mr M couldve benefitted from having  PPI if hed needed to claim. So, on balance,  I think its 
more likely that Mr M decided at some point  he wanted to have the benefits  PPI offered and 
Lloyds added PPI to his account  at his request. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mr M it would treat this as an advised sale. This means  it not 
only had to give him important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for Mr M.
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable  for Mr M based  on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Looking at the likely terms that wouldve applied over the period when Mr M mightve taken 
out the policy it looks like the PPI wouldve covered Mr M for up to 12 months per claim in 
the event of accident or sickness if he couldnt  work.  
Ref: DRN27944542And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
It doesnt appear that Mr M had any significant  other means he couldve depended  on if he 
wasnt able to work. So I cant say that Mr M didnt need PPI in his situation. I think  PPI was 
worthwhile for him.  
Mr M was eligible for the cover. There were  some things the policies didnt cover. But it 
doesnt look as if this wouldve affected Mr M. So I dont think that having more  information 
about the main  policy exclusions and limitations  wouldve put Mr M off taking out PPI.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr M made a claim.  But it seems  to have been  affordable  for him. Mr M 
couldve seen when  he had to pay for PPI as it wouldve shown up on his monthly 
statements when he was charged for it  and when he cleared his monthly card balance  in 
full he didnt pay anything  for PPI. He couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if his 
circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for it.
In 2002, when Mr M upgraded his credit  card, he also indicated  on the application that he 
wanted to have PPI to protect his card monthly  repayments. There was an option to say No 
if he hadnt wanted to protect his payments  this is left blank on Mr Ms application. And 
hes signed his completed form next to where it says:  Sign  it only if you want to be legally 
bound by its terms. So I think its likely that he wouldve carefully checked the information on 
the form before doing this. 
On balance, I think he wouldve understood that having PPI was optional and it was on his 
account at his request. 
As far as I can see Mr Ms circumstances hadnt  changed significantly and the policy  in use 
in 2002 offered (in all main respects) the same benefits as earlier  policies. Mr M told us that 
he didnt have any sick pay or other means he couldve  relied on to pay his credit card when 
he upgraded his card.  So, I think a policy that protected  his monthly repayments for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment  offered him useful  
benefits. 
He continued  to be able to take full advantage of the benefits the policy  offered him. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for him. As before, he 
wouldve continued to be able to see when he was being charged for PPI as it wouldve 
appeared on his monthly card statements. And he couldve cancelled  this at any time. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its likely Mr M wouldve made  a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance, I think hed still have  taken out 
the PPI. 
This means  Mr M hasnt  lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds may have done wrong. 
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN27944543In coming to my decision, Ive taken carefully  into account everything Mr M has said,  
including his comments made in response  to our adjudicators assessment. Ive checked  
through all the available information and I cant see anything that suggests to me that 
moving from job to job, or having gaps between jobs, is likely  to have made  it more  difficult  
for him to claim for unemployment. And whilst I appreciate its frustrating for him that theres 
only limited information  available, I hope that setting things out as Ive done will help explain 
how Ive reached my decision. 
  
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794454