K822xcomplaint
Ms G complains that the cost of the pet insurance  policy she was sold by One Pet One Price 
Limited has increased significantly and that it wasnt made clear  to her that this could 
happen.
background
Ms G took out the pet insurance policy in 2013 and has renewed it each year since. The 
policy was sold by One Pet One Price  Limited and has had several different underwriters.
The annual cost of the policy has increased  each year and Ms G is unhappy  at the size of 
these increases. She says it wasnt made clear to her that the cost would increase as her pet 
got older or that claims on the policy would increase the cost for the following year.
She says she cant afford to keep paying  the increasing costs  and, if shed  known shed 
have to pay such a high amount, she wouldnt have taken the policy  and would just have put 
money aside each month to use for any treatment her pet needed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should explain that businesses are entitled  to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say that the cost of Ms Gs policy  is too high, that 
she should have  been charged less for the policy or that she should  be charged less in the 
future.
One Pet One Price Limited is also not the insurer, so it doesnt set the price  of the insurance. 
But it did sell the policy and arrange  the renewals, so Ive looked at the information it gave 
Ms G. And, having done so, I think One Pet One Price Limited failed to give Ms G clear, fair 
and not misleading information about  the policy. Ill explain  why below.
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions  the pet had or 
had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out or renewed.  So ongoing or 
recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms G took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as recurring  conditions  can continue  to 
be covered for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid.
These lifetime policies are usually  more expensive than standard policies as they provide a 
greater level of cover. But there are also different considerations  surrounding the long-term 
cost and cover for customers  with these policies.
For example, the cost doesnt stay the same for the life of the policy and will generally  
increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the cost of veterinary treatment 
goes up. The cost can also increase due to changes in insurance premium tax or if an 
Ref: DRN22955372insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the cost could be. And if a claim is 
made on the policy the cost will usually increase significantly at the next renewal.
In 2013 when Ms G took out her lifetime pet insurance policy,  the relevant rules about what  a 
business should do when selling insurance could be found in ICOBS Insurance: Conduct of 
Business sourcebook. These set out that, when selling insurance, businesses  must give 
customers clear, fair and not misleading information about it.
I think the long-term cost implications should  have been made  clear  to Ms G, particularly 
when the policy was being marketed  as lifetime insurance. She needed this information  to 
properly understand what  it was she was buying and so she could make an informed choice. 
But, having  looked at the information One Pet One Price Limited gave  Ms G about the policy 
at the sale, I dont think it made this clear to her.
The screenshots One Pet One Price Limited has sent us of the information Ms G was given 
during the sale show that the policy was referred to as lifetime cover several times and that 
the benefits of cover  for a pets  long-term,  chronic or recurring illnesses are highlighted. But I 
dont think the long-term  risk that the cost of the policy could rise significantly was made  
clear enough.
Ive also seen a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy and these  do say that the cost 
of the policy  could change. But I dont think this term was sufficiently highlighted to Ms G 
during the sale,  as she wouldve had to follow a link at the bottom  of the policy summary and 
read through  several  pages of the terms and conditions  to see it. And in any event, I dont 
think the long-term risk that the cost of the policy could rise significantly is made clear.
So I dont  think One Pet One Price Limited gave Ms G clear enough information about the 
policy.
Ms G has said that, if shed known she could  have to pay such a high amount, she wouldnt 
have taken the policy and would just have put money aside  each month to use for any 
treatment her pet needed. Its difficult to know what Ms G would have done had One Pet 
One Price Limited  given  her better information about  the longer-term costs of the policy. She 
might still have gone ahead with it, in the knowledge that at some  point  it might  become too 
expensive to continue; she might have taken out a different type of insurance  that wouldnt 
cover ongoing  conditions; or, as shes said, she might not have taken  out any insurance at 
all. 
As Ms G chose  to take out pet insurance,  I think its likely she wanted some type of cover.  
And, as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some  interest  in the greater 
level of cover it provided. So its possible she would still have gone  ahead with the lifetime 
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms G wasnt  so upset 
or surprised  when the cost increased  significantly  instead this would have been something  
she was expecting to happen. 
Ms G has said shes now unable  to change insurer as her pets pre-existing conditions wont 
be covered and she cant afford to keep paying  the increasing cost of the policy.  So she 
found herself in a difficult position where she either  had to pay the expensive premium,  or 
she lost the cover she wanted  for her pet  this isnt a position  she expected to find herself  
in. Better information about the policy wouldve meant that she could have been more 
Ref: DRN22955373prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue  with the policy  
and that her pet might lose cover for their ongoing and pre-existing conditions.
I think this lack of clear information has caused Ms G significant trouble and upset. So I think  
One Pet One Price Limited should  pay her £1,000  as compensation for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
One Pet One Price Limited should  pay Ms G £1,000  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject this decision before 10 February 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295537