K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (Mercedes Financial) 
regarding a car he obtained  under a hire purchase  agreement. He feels that the car was not 
of satisfactory quality. He wants the money  he paid under the agreement  refunded  to him 
and to be able to return the car. 
background
In June 2016, Mr H entered  into a hire purchase agreement for a new car. 
Mr H paid a deposit  and entered into a finance  agreement with Mercedes Financial to set up 
a payment plan.  The agreement provided  that he would pay 36 monthly  payments of 
approximately £335 and, at the end of that period, would  have an option to buy the car for 
the remaining  balance  of approximately £15,000.
Mr H received his new car in June 2016.  
Around June 2017, Mr H began experiencing issues with the car when the engine light kept 
appearing.
In October  2017 he attended a Mercedes garage and was told that the issue  was with the 
Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) and that it had become clogged with a build up of soot. The 
garage performed  a manual burn to clear the soot from the filter.
This did not resolve the issue fully and Mr H returned to the garage several times over the 
following weeks. Further  filter cleans  were carried out and the DPF was ultimately replaced. 
Mr H continued to experience problems with the car and also experienced a problem with 
the gearbox. This was repaired by the garage. 
In early 2018 Mr H complained to Mercedes Financial. He felt that the car had not been of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mercedes Financial sent Mr H its final response in May 2018.  It explained  that the DPF 
required certain conditions to be met regularly to clear the filter, and that this was the case 
for most recent diesel vehicles. It was suggested that Mr H needed to use the car for longer 
journeys on a regular basis  in order to trigger the filter clearing process. 
The final response  set out that since no problem had arisen until Mr H had had the car for a 
year, and that no issue was raised  with a garage  until Mr H had had the car for nearly 16 
months, it was not satisfied that there had been  a defect  with the car at the time of sale. It 
considered that it had acted appropriately in carrying out filter clearing processes and 
replacing the DPF. Mercedes Financial  maintain  that the issues  with the car had arisen 
because it was used  for multiple short journeys, which did not trigger the filter reset. 
Mercedes Financial therefore did not uphold  Mr Hs complaint,  but offered to accept  the 
vehicle in part exchange for a petrol  vehicle which may be better suited to Mr Hs usual  car 
use. 
Mr H was not happy with this response and contacted  us. 
Ref: DRN24031002Since Mr H contacted us, the car has been returned  to Mercedes Financial  and Mercedes 
Financial is pursuing debt recovery from Mr H. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties.  This 
was that there was no evidence of Mercedes Financial doing  anything  wrong. This was 
because the evidence supported that there was no fault with the car purchased, and that the 
usage of the car was not sufficient to trigger the filter clearing process. He felt that Mercedes 
Financial had acted  fairly  by carrying out manual burns and replacing the DPF. 
Mr H did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I understand Mr Hs frustrations at having  acquired an expensive  car for its reliability 
and then experiencing frequent issues so soon after purchase. Mr H has described that he 
and his family lost confidence in the vehicle due to breakdowns  as the filter became blocked. 
This must have been distressing and worrying for Mr H and his family. I understand that the 
car has now been returned and hope that Mr H is now able to find a more suitable  vehicle  for 
his needs going forward.
I do, however,  agree  with the adjudicators view. The issues began to surface in the car 
more than 12 months after purchase, suggesting that there was no fault at the time of 
purchase. The expert evidence available, from the Mercedes garage, indicates that the DPR  
was not faulty,  but had been  affected by the familys usage of the vehicle, consisting  of 
mostly short trips. 
I think that Mercedes  Financial has acted appropriately in repairing the gearbox  and carrying  
out filter clearing services  when needed. I also think it was appropriate to replace the DPR in 
order to be confident that the part was not faulty. Finally, I think  the proposal  to accept the 
car back in part exchange  for a car which would better suit Mr Hs car usage  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Whilst I understand Mr Hs view and realise  that this decision will be disappointing for him, 
from the evidence  available  I cannot say that Mercedes Financial has done anything  wrong. I 
am therefore unable  to uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services Limited to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  and do not ask Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2403100