K821x#15complaint
Mr H acquired  a used car in early January 2018,  by means of a conditional sale agreement  
with Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc. He complains that the car was of unsatisfactory  quality 
at the point of supply.  He wants Santander to accept  responsibility for rectifying  his cars 
faults.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 2 July 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I disagreed  with our investigators view that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. I thought it should be upheld.
Both Mr H and Santander responded, agreeing with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Santander Consumer (UK) Plc:
1.To arrange and pay for a further independent inspection of Mr Hs car
2.To arrange and pay for any point-of-supply  faults identified in this inspection  to be 
repaired by a manufacturer approved  dealership
3.To pay an additional £200  in compensation directly to Mr H.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22903272COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
2 July 2019
complaint
Mr H acquired a used car in early January 2018, by means of a conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc. He complains that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. He wants  Santander  to accept responsibility for rectifying his cars  faults.
 
background
Mr H is represented in his complaint. But, for ease of reading, I refer only to Mr H in this decision.
 
Mr H initially  complained in late May 2018  to the supplying dealership, listing seven faults:
Two faults related to excessive  noises  occurring  when the car was started from cold
Two faults related to excessive  noise  occurring  whenever the car was driven
One fault related  to an advisory  notice from his cars first MOT  test in late January 2018
One fault related  to a warning light turning on
One fault related  to the cars  braking system  Mr H said this system  had been checked by 
another garage, and the fault would be repaired within the next few days
Very soon afterwards,  Mr H referred  his complaint to Santander. It agreed with him that his car should 
be independently inspected by somebody from a suitably accredited  organisation,  which  was 
arranged for early June 2018.  The brief for this inspection was to check for faults related to rattling 
and other  excessive noises, including  when  the car pulls away.
The independent inspector  reported:
The car was test driven for about  20 miles, but was not started from cold  no faults were 
found
The car was also connected to a diagnostic machine  no fault codes were  found
It would  be advisable for a further inspection  to be carried out with the car started  from cold  
this would  enable checking for the faults that occurred only under  these conditions
Santander wrote to Mr H in mid June 2018, saying that it was unable to uphold  his complaint, 
because the independent inspection did not detect  the faults he had identified.
Mr H then referred his complaint to us. He told us that, in his view, Santander had not fully 
investigated his concerns:
The inspection  brief did not specifically include investigating some the faults he had identified  
(related to the MOT test advisory notice, warning light and braking system)
The advice to carry out a further inspection, starting the car from cold, had not been followed
Our investigator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  He said that Santander should not be 
required to carry out a further  inspection. This was because  he felt it was sufficient  and reasonable  for 
Santander to rely on the road test and diagnostic machine information already  gathered.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. In particular, he did not think  the diagnostic information would  
necessarily detect faults that only occurred when the car was started  from cold.
Mr H also paid a manufacturer approved  dealership (the supplying dealership was not manufacturer 
approved) to investigate the warning light fault he had identified. The approved dealer  was able to fix 
this fault, and Santander  offered:
to refund to Mr H the payment he made to the dealer
to make a further  £200 payment to Mr H, as a gesture of goodwill, for the poor customer  
service he had received
Ref: DRN22903273Mr H accepted this offer, on the understanding that it was not in full and final settlement of his 
complaint, which covered the other faults he had identified. And so this complaint was referred  for 
review by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has a responsibility to ensure  that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to their 
description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable person  would  have regarded the 
goods as satisfactory, taking  into account all relevant circumstances,  which for cars include age and 
mileage travelled. But there are limits to Santanders responsibilities. In particular, faults must be 
present or developing  at the point of supply.
Mr Hs car was just under 3 years old, and had travelled a little under 28,000 miles, when he acquired  
it. It was subject to its first MOT test nineteen days after the point of supply. 
Our investigator noted that, because  Mr H had made his complaint within six months of acquiring  his 
car, the onus  was on Santander to investigate the seven faults he had identified, and to ascertain  
whether or not they were  point-of-supply faults. And Santander agreed with Mr H that his car should  
be independently inspected at its expense. But it did not specifically ask the independent  inspector to 
investigate all seven faults. 
I think  that Santander did not act unreasonably  in relation  to two of these  faults:
One relating  to the MOT test advisory  notice  in my view, the notice referred  to a wear  and 
tear item, commensurate with the cars  age and mileage, and not to a fault
The other relating  to the cars  braking system, which  Mr H said would be repaired before  the 
inspection date, effectively preventing examination  of the problem
Santander has now accepted that a third fault not specified,  relating to a warning  light, did exist and 
was present at the point  of supply. The fault has now been fixed  and compensation  has been paid to 
Mr H.
In my view,  the inspection did address two further faults, relating to excessive noise  occurring 
whenever the car is driven. And I think Santander  is entitled to rely on the inspection evidence that 
neither fault was present.
But the inspection did not address the remaining  two faults, relating to excessive noises occurring  
when the car was started from cold. And I think that Santander should  have followed the advice to 
carry out a further inspection, specifically starting the car from cold  because  I feel the inspector 
would not have offered this advice,  if he had been  confident  that the diagnostic  machine and other 
information gathered was enough to enable sufficiently  reliable  conclusions to be drawn.
Mr H has recently  told us that, in order to put things right, he now wants  Santander to accept rejection 
of his car. But I think that, in the first instance, Santander has a continuing and full responsibility to 
rectify all his cars point-of-supply faults, and that rejection will only become an issue if the necessary 
repairs are unsuccessful.  
For now, I think the advice to carry out a further inspection should be followed (paid for by Santander). 
And, if this further inspection identifies point-of-supply  faults, then Santander   should  arrange  and pay 
for them to be repaired  by a manufacturer approved dealer. 
Santander has already  paid £200 to Mr H for poor customer service.  I think that it should  now pay 
additional compensation of £200, for the trouble and upset it has caused by not following the advice it 
received in June 2018 to carry  out a further inspection.
Ref: DRN22903274my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further  comments  or evidence I receive  from Mr 
H or Santander Consumer (UK) Plc by 16 July 2019, my provisional decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. My provisional settlement recommendations are that Santander  should:
Arrange and pay for a further independent inspection  of Mr Hs car
Arrange and pay for any point-of-supply faults identified in this inspection to be repaired  by a 
manufacturer approved  dealership
Pay an additional £200 for trouble and upset directly to Mr H.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2290327