K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E have  complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited. They  are not 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim  under  their house insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E made a claim under their home insurance policy  following a burglary in June 
2018. Most of the claim was settled to their satisfaction. But they werent happy with the 
settlement offer in relation to their patio  and garden shed.
Lloyds appointed a personal  claims consultant  who said that £300 should  be paid in relation 
to a broken shed  door and a damaged  patio.  This was because it felt the items were  affected 
by wear and tear, although no real evidence  was provided of this. As Mr and Mrs E remained 
unhappy about this they complained to Lloyds and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for them  and upheld their complaint.  She highlighted that 
Mr and Mrs E had provided estimates. While  Lloyds  hadnt really  inspected the level of 
damage sustained  or taken action to undertake a further inspection of the damage.  So she 
concluded that Lloyds should  pay Mrs Es estimates  and should pay £100  compensation for 
the inconvenience caused.
Lloyds accepted that it should pay Mrs Es estimate  for repairing her shed (£300). However, 
it maintained that it hadnt had the opportunity  to investigate  the level of damage caused  to 
the patio and suggested sending an engineer.  But our case handler thought it had already 
had the chance to do this over a year ago and failed to take action. So, given that the patio 
wouldve deteriorated significantly, as it had been  left in a state  of disrepair, and that there 
was a clear breakdown in communication between both sides,  she still thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.
So the matter  has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
As Lloyds  has accepted  that it should pay Mrs Es estimate for repairs to her garden shed I 
dont propose to go over the detail again here.  I will simply consider whether it has acted 
reasonably in considering the claim Mr and Mrs Es made in relation to the wooden decking.
Lloyds say that not all of the damage sustained to the wooden decked patio area was 
caused during  the break-in and I understand its position. But, its appointed consultant  didnt 
look at this in any meaningful way when he attended  Mr and Mrs Es property. It would have 
made sense  to look at any structural damage at that point in time as opposed to undertake a 
general guess  at the level of damage. This was a clear lost opportunity which  was 
compounded by the fact that Mr and Mrs E had call to complain about the consultant. 
Indeed, there seems  to have been a general breakdown  in trust between Mr and Mrs E and 
Lloyds which  I can understand. There were  plenty of opportunities for Lloyds to take positive 
action and send  out an independent  engineer rather than let things drag out. Given  this; the 
Ref: DRN27347792falling out with its consultant; and the length  of time that has passed  I dont  think  it would be 
fair to do this now (nearly a year and a half later).
Ive also digested Lloyds  very recent desktop  report about the damage and it raises some  
valid points. But the report has relied  on the photos provided by Mrs E. And I dont find this 
particularly persuasive  given the passage  of time and the failure of its consultant to provide  
photos and a detailed report around  the time of the break-in.  Plus,  the report doesnt  provide 
any commentary about how the thieves used the ladders at the time of the theft or estimate  
any aspect of costs or comment on the reasonableness of the initial  offer Lloyds made.  
It is of note that it would  have been easy to undertake  a desktop assessment, during the 
early stages of this claim, if that what Lloyds wanted  to do. So Im surprised that it chose to 
do this at this late stage.
When Mrs E provided the initial patio  repair quote  she thought the estimate needed to cover  
the cost of a new wooden  decking patio. Once  it was pointed out by this service that any 
repair should focus on the damaged area she went away  and got a quote for the actual 
damage caused (including  some structural damage caused). Having considered  this, 
alongside the photos available, I think payment  of this estimate  is a fair way to advance  the 
settlement of this claim.
Finally, it mustve been stressful for Mr and Mrs E to have had to endure  all of the hassle of 
advancing this while not being  able to use their patio  for a substantial  period of time.  So I 
think that they should be awarded £100  compensation.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to pay £1550 for the repair of Mr and Mrs Es garden shed and 
patio. And pay £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734779