K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way Fairmead  Insurance Limited  dealt with a claim 
under their home insurance  policy for damage  caused by an escape  of water.
background
On 3 March 2018 a pipe burst  in Mr and Mrs Ms loft, causing a large  escape of water.  
They made a claim to Fairmead  for the water damage.  At the end of March Mr and Mrs M 
complained about the lack of progress.  They  said driers  had still not been installed,  so they 
were living in a damp property. The electrics  in their home hadnt  been checked and a 
second asbestos check was required several weeks after the first check had been carried 
out. They were also unhappy with the general  lack of communication.
Fairmead accepted  it could have done  more to progress the claim for Mr and Mrs M. It 
offered them  £100  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Later on in the claim Mr and Mrs M complained  again about poor service and delays. In 
October 2018 Fairmead offered  them  £300  compensation  and 'a further £150 for a missed 
appointment.
While Mr and Mrs M were staying in temporary  accommodation, Fairmead paid them  £10 
each a day for their additional costs. Mr and Mrs M didnt think  this was enough.  Fairmead 
said if their costs exceeded this, they should  provide receipts for it to consider.
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs M complained  that they were being chased  for rental  
payments, after they'd  been moved from a hotel to a rental  property and that rented 
furniture was removed  from the rental accommodation because  their own furniture was 
supposed to be transferred  from their home,  only for L&G to realise this wasn't possible.
The repairs  were finally completed in October 2019.  Mr and Mrs M complained about the 
standard of repairs  and cleaning of their property.  Fairmead  agreed a further  payment of 
£200 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to this service. Our investigator noted  that while 
Fairmead had offered  Mr and Mrs M £750 in total as compensation for trouble and upset, it 
had only paid £200 of this to them. He thought Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs M a total of 
£1,500 for its poor service.
As Fairmead  didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue that remains in dispute  between the parties is the amount of compensation  
Fairmead should pay Mr and Mrs M for the shortcomings in its service to them.  So this is 
what Ill focus on, all other  issues having  been agreed. 
Ref: DRN27611862Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, its looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
Fairmead accepts that there were delays on the part of its contractors. In particular it wasnt  
until about three months after the leak that driers  were installed in the property. It seems  to 
me likely that this delay  caused the problem  with mould, leading  to further delays before that 
was treated. It wasnt until almost a year after the leak before repairs  started and about  a 
further six months before they were finished. Although  its hard to say precisely, I think a 
realistic time estimate for the completion  of all the works would be approximately  six months.  
Unfortunately they took about  a year longer than they should have done. During that time 
Mr and Mrs M were  either living in a damp, dusty  property  or they had to stay elsewhere.
Many of the issues arose from poor communication between the various parties  involved 
with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. They were told the rent had been paid on the rental  property 
theyd moved into but they were chased by the landlord for rental  payments. Rented  
furniture was removed  from the rental accommodation because  their own furniture was 
supposed to be transferred  from their home,  only for Fairmead to realise  too late that this 
wasnt possible. I can understand  why they felt they had to project  manage  their claim.
This must have been extremely frustrating for Mr and Mrs M. They were constantly having to 
chase to get things done  or find out what was supposed to be happening. They did as much 
as they could themselves  for instance, removing damaged  carpets, loft boarding and 
insulation. They took time off work  for appointments that were  missed. All in all they were  
unnecessarily inconvenienced  much  more than they should have been.
Mr and Mrs M have  described how all this took its toll on them.  They felt stressed and 
unsupported throughout the process.  Mrs M said this affected her physical health and she 
visited her doctor for stress-related symptoms.  
Overall, taking into account this services  approach  to awards  made in similar 
circumstances, I think  the sum of £1,500  is appropriate in total to compensate  Mr and Mrs M 
for the trouble and upset  theyve suffered as a result of delays and poor service on the part 
of Fairmead.
For completeness I should mention that the allowance of £10 a day paid by Fairmead for 
additional living costs  while  Mr and Mrs M were staying in a hotel is in line with what  Id 
expect to see. And I note that Fairmead said it would consider reimbursing any additional 
costs if they provided  receipts. I think this was a reasonable approach.
Ref: DRN27611863my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M a total 
of £1,500 (less any sums already paid in respect of compensation) to compensate them for 
delays and poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761186