K820x#14complaint
Miss Q has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold her Royalties  
and Select  Silver packaged accounts in December 2009 and July 2015 respectively.
She says she was pressured into agreeing  to the Royalties account  and says that had the 
benefits been explained to her, she would not have agreed to it. She says her account was 
changed to the Select  Silver account without her knowledge.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  Miss Qs complaint and didnt think that either of the 
packaged accounts had been mis-sold.  Miss Q disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive used this to help 
me decide this complaint.
Miss Q says that she felt pressured into agreeing to the account  and that RBS took 
advantage of her because  she was young  at the time. When considering what Miss Q has 
said, I note that she already held a fee-free current account with RBS at the time.  So whilst 
she mayve been young  at the time, Im satisfied that she was aware fee-free accounts were 
available and that ultimately, if she didnt  want the fee-paying Royalties account, I think  she 
was aware she didnt have to agree  to it if she didnt want it. I appreciate that Miss Q may 
now feel that she was taken advantage of. But shes not said anything  specific,  and Ive not 
seen anything else for me to be able to conclude  that it was more likely than not that RBS 
used unreasonable sales tactics or pressured  her into agreeing  to it.
RBS says it sold the account on a non-advised basis.  Whereas  Miss Q says that the account 
was recommended to her. Based on what all parties have said and provided, Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that RBS completed  an assessment of Miss Qs demands and needs or 
recommended the Royalties  account  because it matched Miss Qs needs. So I think it was 
more likely to have  been sold on a non-advised basis. This meant that RBS didnt have to 
check if the account was right for Miss Q, but it did have to give her enough  information  
about the account so that she could decide for herself whether it was worthwhile taking out.
Miss Q has said that the vehicle she had at the time was over 10 years old so wasnt 
covered by the breakdown cover  provided  by the account. But the Royalties account didnt 
provide breakdown cover as a benefit when it was sold to her  so I dont think her 
comments are relevant to whether the account  was mis-sold. 
The account  did however provide mobile phone insurance. And Miss Q has said that it 
wasnt made clear that the policy will provide refurbished handsets.  But I have checked the 
terms and conditions that were in force  at the time the account  was sold to her and they say 
that replacement  handsets will be replaced  from stock where  available.  It makes no 
mention of refurbished  handsets being used  to settle claims, although this term might have 
been changed some  time later. I believe this explains why refurbished handsets were not 
mentioned when the Royalties mobile phone cover  was discussed with her during the sale.
Ref: DRN24760352RBS has provided an application  form that was signed by Miss Q. And this form indicates 
that the account benefits were discussed  with Miss Q, and she was given  documents  about 
the account benefits, before she agreed to it. And I think  its likely, in making the account 
seem attractive to Miss Q, that RBS wouldve mentioned the benefits that shed get in return  
for the monthly account  fee. 
Miss Q has provided evidence that she travelled  in 2017 and took out separate travel 
insurance. Miss Q has also provided  evidence  of her mobile phone  contract  and details of 
her car. However, like the adjudicator said, it was up to Miss Q to decide whether she 
wanted to rely on the cover provided  by the packaged  account benefits, or take out separate 
cover elsewhere.
I appreciate RBS may not have given  Miss Q all of the information it shouldve about  all of 
the benefits that came with the account.  But Ive not seen anything that makes me think Miss 
Q wouldve  been put off  at the time  from agreeing to open  the Royalties account  had she 
been told everything about  all of the benefits. I accept  that with the benefit  of hindsight, she 
may now regret agreeing  to it and think it has been  poor value for money. But that doesnt 
mean that RBS was wrong to have sold it to her when it did.
Finally Miss Q says that her account was changed to the Select Silver account without her 
knowledge. I understand the change to the Select Silver account was essentially  a 
rebranding of the account, because the Royalties  account was withdrawn from RBSs range 
of accounts in July 2015.  RBS was able to do this, providing it gave account holders notice 
of the changes.
RBS says that it wouldve written to Miss Q to inform  her of the changed before they were 
due to take place on her account. And although  it is unable to produce the actual letter that 
wouldve been sent to Miss Q, it has provided evidence to show  that Miss Q was sent 
various mailings about her account  over the years  she held it, including annual  eligibility 
statements (AES) that were emailed  to her since 2014. 
So given that I can see that Miss Q was included in every major mailing for her account, I 
think its likely that Miss Q was also included in the mailing regarding  the rebranding  of the 
Royalties account.  But even if she didnt receive  the notice, Im not persuaded she wouldve 
acted any differently had she received it. I say this because she was sent the AES every 
year after the account had been changed to a Select Silver account,  reminding her of the 
benefits that it came with, yet continued to keep the account knowing she was paying a 
monthly fee to have  it.
Therefore, having  carefully considered everything that Miss Q has said and RBS has 
provided, I dont think the Royalties  account  was mis-sold or that RBS acted incorrectly  or 
unfairly when it rebranded  the Royalties account  to a Select Silver account in 2015.  Because 
of this, I dont think it would be appropriate  to require RBS to refund Miss Q the account fees 
shes paid to have  the packaged accounts.
Ref: DRN24760353my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think the Royalties or Select Silver packaged 
accounts were mis-sold  to Miss Q. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2476035