K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited cancelled her accounts 
and has provided  poor customer service.    
background 
Mrs H had an account with American  Express. On 25 July 2018  American  Express  sent her 
a Notice of Default.  This said, We have reasonable  grounds to consider that you are no 
longer creditworthy and/or that you are unable or unwilling to pay your debts when due; and 
it went on to explain there was an outstanding balance  of £3,121.92 and her agreement  with 
American Express would end in 14 days.  American  Express wrote further to Mrs H on 
2 August 2018  to provide  formal notification her account had been  closed. 
Mrs H says she called American Express to find out what was wrong. She says that based 
on her own credit reference agency checks and the limited information then provided by 
American Express, she was unable to see what the problem was. So she assumed 
American Express had made  a mistake. Therefore,  when she was later offered online 
another American Express  card eligibility  check,  she proceeded, and she was informed she 
was eligible and that her application would likely  be accepted.  Her application  subsequently  
was accepted, but when  she went to use the card she was sent, it was declined at the 
check-out. This new account was subsequently  also closed by American Express.
Mrs H complained to American  Express about what happened but ultimately  remained 
unhappy, so she referred  her complaint  here. An investigator here concluded that 
American Express shouldnt have closed Mrs Hs account without the appropriate notice 
period, but that ultimately the impact was limited. The investigator therefore recommended 
that American Express pay Mrs H £50 to resolve the complaint. Mrs H accepted this 
recommendation, but American Express did not. The case has therefore been passed  to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached materially the same  conclusions as our investigator and for 
materially the same reasons. 
In cancelling  Mrs Hs account  in the way that it did, American Express seeks to rely on the 
terms and conditions that state it can end its agreement  with Mrs H immediately  if [it] has 
reasonable grounds to believe [Mrs H] is unable or unwilling to pay [her] debts. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  American Express doesnt have to give a reason to end the 
agreement  just as Mrs H can choose to end her agreement with American Express, 
American Express can choose to end its agreement with Mrs H. Its entitled to do that. But in 
doing so, it needs to act fairly   giving the appropriate amount of notice. And in this case, 
whilst I understand from the information American Express has provided that it did not wish 
to continue its relationship with Mrs H, Im not persuaded by what American  Express has 
said that it had reasonable grounds  to believe  Mrs H is/was  unable or unwilling to pay her 
debts. I havent  seen any evidence that there  were  any issues  with Mrs H paying her debts. 
Ref: DRN24374912And I dont  agree that the information  American Express has provided meant it was 
reasonable to say otherwise. 
Given this, that American Express hasnt  put forward any other reasons why it was entitled 
under the terms  to provide less than two months  written notice  and that the terms 
otherwise require American  Express to provide two months written notice  I dont think 
American Express acted fairly  and reasonably  here. 
I understand that Mrs H says American  Express shouldnt have let her apply for a card again 
and that it has given her misleading information. I understand, however, that it was only after 
Mrs Hs application and acceptance was further reviewed that it was linked to her previous 
account, which led to this new account being closed also.  I dont think this was 
unreasonable. But I do think that, overall,  American Express could have  dealt with the whole 
matter better.
Ive therefore  thought  about appropriate  compensation  thinking  about the impact here. Im 
not satisfied American  Express should be required to reopen Mrs Hs account or accept a 
further application from Mrs H for a new card because it could have fairly and reasonably  
ended the account by giving two months notice. And it is entitled  to decide who it has as 
customers. So I think Mrs H would have  been  in fundamentally the same position in any 
case.
However, I am satisfied  there has been some level of distress  and inconvenience caused to 
Mrs H (beyond  that which she would have experienced anyway, if American Express had 
dealt with matters  as it should  have). American  Express argues that even if it had taken the 
decision to provide two months notice, Mrs Hs account would still have been suspended  
immediately  but again, Im not satisfied  American  Express has shown why it would 
reasonably have been entitled to do this. I do note,  however, that it appears  Mrs H was able 
to repay  the balance  due. And overall  Im satisfied,  for the same reasons  as the investigator, 
that to acknowledge its mistake and the distress and inconvenience  it has caused by the 
way it has handled  matters, American  Express  should  pay Mrs H £50 to resolve this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct that American Express  Services  
Europe Limited pays Mrs H £50 in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  by 4 June 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2437491