K821x#15complaint
Miss K says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  that Quick Quid provided  to Miss K from        
August 2009 onwards. Miss Ks last loan was provided in June 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Ks complaint and thought the loans from loan three 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss K could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing in mind Quick  Quids response to our adjudicators  assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that Quick  Quid was required to establish  whether Miss K 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN24456192Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG)  defines in 
a sustainable  manner as being  without undue difficulties and in particular without incurring or 
increasing problem  indebtedness,  over the life of the credit  agreement and out of income 
and/or available savings. 
So it follows  that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower is unlikely  to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss K, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Miss K was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan two. I say 
this because:
loan two constituted a significant proportion of Miss Ks relatively low income. In 
these circumstances  there was a significant  risk that Miss K wouldnt have been able 
to meet  her existing  commitments without borrowing  again.  
loan three was provided only three  days after Miss K eventually  managed  to repay 
loan two. And she was borrowing more than the amount her repayment  record 
indicates she was struggling to repay. So Quick Quid ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Miss K was having to borrow further  to cover the hole the 
eventual repayment  of her previous loan left in her finances and that Miss Ks 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss K was provided with loan four on the day that she settled loan three. And she 
was borrowing the same amount. So she wasnt making any real inroads to the 
amount she owed Quick Quid her indebtedness was being  perpetuated. Loan six 
was provided 10 months after Miss Ks first. And it was for three times the amount. 
Miss K had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service an increasing debt to 
Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss K lost out because  Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan two 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ks indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed Quick Quid  money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Ks ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans two to six and Quick  Quid should  put things 
right.
Ref: DRN24456193putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss K paid on loans two to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss K owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about loans two to six is adverse. So all entries about loans two to six, 
should any remain, should be removed from Miss Ks credit file.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance remains on loan six. Quick Quid  can deduct  this 
outstanding balance from the compensation it now needs to pay Miss K.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss K a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ks complaint.  Casheuronet  UK 
LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2445619