K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Hargreaves  Lansdown  Asset Management Limited hasnt  stopped 
him from inadvertently losing enhanced  protection on his lifetime  allowance. Mr B has been  
assisted in this complaint  by his daughter. For ease, Ill refer to most things as though Mr B 
has said them himself.
background
In April 2018, Mr B sold some investments which he held in a Fund & Share Account using a 
Bed & SIPP  arrangement. He moved the proceeds from the sale to his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  Mr B says he didnt  intend  to do this but wanted  to move the 
proceeds to his ISA. In September 2018  Mr B says Hargreaves Lansdown  told him that, 
because hed transferred funds to his SIPP, hed lost the enhanced protection  he had for his 
lifetime allowance. Mr B contacted HMRC to explain the circumstances. HMRC said this 
didnt fall within its guidance for a genuine error. It confirmed Mr B had lost the enhanced 
protection on his lifetime  allowance.
Mr B complained to Hargreaves Lansdown  in November 2018. He said it was aware he had 
enhanced protection on his lifetime allowance as it had guided him through  the process in 
2009. Mr B says he expected Hargreaves Lansdown  to have procedures in place to prevent 
an inadvertent breach  of enhanced protection. He also said Hargreaves Lansdown  didnt 
send him an email confirming the transfer  hed made to his SIPP.  Mr B says had he received 
this email, he would have taken steps  to cancel the transaction and reverse the loss of 
enhanced protection.
Hargreaves Lansdown replied in January 2019.  It said:
It had reviewed its online process  and believes the information provided  is clear. Each 
stage of the application process  has Bed & SIPP at the top of each page.  
An email confirming the transfer  of funds to his SIPP should have been sent to Mr B, but 
it wasnt. Hargreaves Lansdown  apologised for this.
The transaction was execution-only; its for Mr B to undertake  the necessary research 
and take precautions when giving instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown.
The instructions  from Mr B were non-advised  so there werent  any recommendations 
made as to the suitability of investing  in the SIPP.  Hargreaves  Lansdown says it isnt 
obliged to inform  Mr B of the effects contributing to a pension  he may have.
Unhappy with this outcome,  Mr B complained to us in April 2019. He complained  about; the 
inadequacy of Hargreaves Lansdowns  administrative platform  and processing systems, and 
that he wasnt sent a confirmatory email about the transaction. He says this would have 
alerted him to the error earlier. He asked for compensation  for the distress  and 
administrative burden hes had to endure, and acknowledgement from Hargreaves 
Lansdown of its error  and the fault in their platform.
Our investigator looked into what happened but didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said:
The transfer was completed on an execution-only basis, so the business wouldnt 
question it. Its Mr Bs responsibility to ensure that any instructions given are accurate 
and suited to his circumstances.
Shed  looked  at screenshots of the Hargreaves Lansdown online system and took the 
view it makes it clear  to the customer where the funds are being moved to.
Ref: DRN25043212Had a confirmatory email been sent to Mr B and hed subsequently informed Hargreaves 
Lansdown of the error, it would have taken  a view whether it was a genuine error in line 
with guidance  from HMRC. Shed looked  at this guidance and agreed with Hargreaves 
Lansdown that it wouldnt be considered a genuine error.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators view. He made the following points:
Referring to HMRC guidance, he emphasised it says errors  should be spotted  and 
rectified as soon as reasonably possible. Mr B feels that, had Hargreaves Lansdown 
sent a confirmatory  email, he would have immediately contacted Hargreaves Lansdown 
to cancel the transaction. Hed also have contacted HMRC and feels  there is every 
chance it would have agreed  he could  retain  the enhanced protection.
He felt the lack of a confirmatory  email  from Hargreaves  Lansdown  hadnt  been given 
sufficient consideration.
Hargreaves Lansdowns online system is seriously flawed. Mr B feels there should be 
checks within its systems to prevent an inadvertent loss of enhanced  protection.
The case  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a first step Ive considered the Hargreaves Lansdown online application  process for a 
Bed & SIPP  transaction  in order  to understand whether it is sufficiently clear that funds are 
being transferred  to a SIPP. Ive seen screenshots of this four-step process. The first step 
allows the selection of whether the funds are to be transferred to a Bed & ISA or a 
Bed & SIPP.  Mr B would  have selected  Bed & SIPP. Once  past this stage,  each of the 
remaining screens is then headed  Bed & SIPP. And within each screen it is mentioned  
numerous times that funds are being  transferred to a SIPP. The third step is the confirm  
your order screen. After asking the customer to check the details on the screen are correct 
before proceeding, it says You would like to Bed & SIPP the following holdings from your HL 
Vantage Fund & Share  Account to your HL Vantage SIPP. Finally, there is a tick box which 
confirms that the customer  is bound by the Terms  and Conditions for the SIPP.  This box 
would have to be ticked by Mr B before the transaction  could continue. I think the information  
given during the application process is sufficiently clear that Mr B would have known that the 
funds were being transferred to his SIPP, and not to his ISA.
Ive also considered what Mr B said about  Hargreaves  Lansdowns  awareness  that he had 
enhanced protection which Hargreaves Lansdown set up for him in 2009. Mr B says that 
there should be checks in the Hargreaves Lansdown systems to prevent  transactions  that 
would inadvertently invalidate enhanced protection. In Mr Bs case,  the transaction  was 
execution-only. Such a transaction is non-advised, so Hargreaves Lansdown didnt consider 
the suitability of the investment. Essentially, Mr B gave  instructions to Hargreaves Lansdown 
and it subsequently carried out his instructions.  Because this was an execution-only 
transaction online, it wasnt for Hargreaves Lansdown to question Mr Bs instructions.
Ref: DRN25043213Step four of the application process confirms  the instruction has been successfully 
submitted. It then says an email  will be sent once the instruction has been  processed.  But 
this email wasnt sent to Mr B. And this was a mistake by Hargreaves Lansdown.  So Ive 
considered the impact  of this. Had Mr B received  this email,  I appreciate it might have 
prompted him to contact  Hargreaves  Lansdown  and HMRC to inform them about the error 
straight away. That said, I dont think Hargreaves Lansdowns  failure to send  the email  has 
had an impact on the outcome of the case. Ill explain why.
Mr B made the transfer in question  from his Fund  & Share account to his SIPP  at the 
beginning of April 2018. Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs Spring 2018 Investment Report. Within 
the Report there are three references  to the transfer.  Page eight of the Report covers the 
Capital Account Transactions for Mr Bs SIPP.  It contains the following entry  for 05/04/2018:  
Product Transfer: From HL Vantage Fund  & Share A/c for the sum of £2,523.60. This is the 
only product transfer  on that page; all the other  transfers are from the SIPP Income  Account. 
Page 13 of the Report shows transactions from Mr Bs Fund & Share Account. There  are 
very few transactions on this page but the relevant one is dated 05/04/2018.  It says Product 
Transfer: To HL Vantage  SIPP  for the sum of £2,523.60. Both of these entries  on the Report  
show that the transfer in question has been  made to Mr Bs SIPP. In addition, the final page 
of the Report  summarises  the contributions Mr B made to his SIPP.  In a heading marked  
Contributions  to your HL Vantage SIPP (the emphasis is contained in the original report) it 
shows the transfer in question  to Mr Bs SIPP. It is the only transaction on that page.
Mr B is a paperless customer and Hargreaves Lansdown have sent evidence  that an email 
was sent to Mr B in May 2018, informing him that the Investment Report  was available to 
view. I cant be certain  whether Mr B read the Investment  Report. But had he done so, I think  
there were enough entries in the Report  to show Mr B had made a transfer to his SIPP 
account, not his ISA as hed intended.
Ive seen the online audit log which shows that Mr B accessed his Hargreaves Lansdown 
account two days  after he made  the transfer  to his SIPP. Although  Hargreaves Lansdowns 
logs dont specify which parts of his account Mr B looked at, I think its likely that Mr B did 
this to confirm that the transfer  hed made  two days before had been processed. Had he 
looked at his ISA account, its likely  he could  have noticed that the transfer hed expected to 
see wasnt in his ISA account. Similarly, had he looked at his SIPP  account,  he could have 
noticed an additional transaction on his SIPP account that he hadnt been expecting.
The Investment  Report also shows that Mr B trades relatively frequently, somewhere 
between two and seven trades  per month.  He would be used to receiving confirmatory 
emails from Hargreaves Lansdown shortly after he made each trade. So Mr B is used to 
receiving these emails. When he didnt receive  a confirmatory email for the trade in question, 
I think this could have  been a prompt for him to follow up with Hargreaves Lansdown.
I think there were enough opportunities  for Mr B to notice  that he had transferred funds to his 
SIPP account, rather than his ISA. And that he couldve contacted Hargreaves Lansdown  
and HMRC earlier than he did in September 2018.
Ref: DRN25043214Im conscious that HMRC  has already said that Mr Bs circumstances dont fall under  the 
genuine error guidance and that hes lost his enhanced protection.  Mr Bs point here is that 
HMRC gave a decision  in November 2018,  seven months after hed transferred the funds.  
He feels that, had the confirmatory email been  sent by Hargreaves Lansdown,  it would have 
prompted him to contact  HMRC immediately after the transaction  and he feels there is every 
chance it would have agreed  to him keeping the enhanced protection.  While I cant say 
whether HMRC would  have done this, Ive looked carefully at the HMRC guidance  for a 
genuine error in the context of whats happened in this case. 
The guidance says typically these payments will be made as the result  of an inadvertent  
administrative failure or because of circumstances beyond the control  of the person making  
an inadvertent payment.  I dont think either  apply  to Mr Bs situation.  In Mr Bs case,  the 
transaction was execution-only so I cant see Hargreaves Lansdown processing of the 
transfer was wrong.  Therefore, I dont think there was an inadvertent  administrative failure. 
As Ive said,  I think the online process is clear about  funds  being transferred to a SIPP  and 
Mr B continued to proceed with his application.  So I dont think  this is outside Mr Bs control. 
Its not possible for me to say for certain  what  decision HMRC would have come to had Mr B 
raised the issue earlier than September 2018. But having looked at the HMRC guidance, I 
dont think its likely  it would be considered a genuine error. And even if Mr B had contacted 
HMRC earlier than September  2018 (and HMRC reinstated the enhanced protection  on his 
lifetime allowance), I dont think it would be fair to hold Hargreaves Lansdown responsible  for 
this delay due to the lack of a confirmatory email. As I said above, I think  Mr B had enough  
opportunities to spot his error.
To summarise, Mr B has inadvertently transferred funds from his Fund  & Share account to 
his SIPP  when hed intended to transfer  the funds  to his ISA. I think  the application  process 
was clear in showing  that Mr Bs funds were being transferred to his SIPP. Hargreaves  
Lansdown made a mistake by not sending  an email to Mr B confirming what  hed done. 
Although I think its possible this would have prompted Mr B to contact Hargreaves 
Lansdown to reverse his transaction, I also think that there were enough signposts after the 
transaction to alert Mr B to his error  before being told about it in September  2018.
I dont doubt that Mr B intended to transfer  money to his ISA. But instead he made  an error 
and transferred to his SIPP.  And this led to the loss of enhanced protection on his lifetime 
allowance. From what Ive seen, I dont think it would be reasonable to hold Hargreaves 
Lansdown responsible for this error.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Geoff Pearson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2504321