K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about mortgage  advice they were given by MCD Insurance Services 
in 2003.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional conclusions,  were set out in my 
provisional decision of 3 May 2017.  A copy of that decision is attached and forms part of this 
decision.
Based on the evidence  available and the submissions made  by Mr and Mrs P I concluded 
(provisionally) that the complaint should  not be upheld. I explained why.
I also pointed to a number of things which I had taken into account when reaching that 
decision, including:
That the business hadnt responded to the complaint and we hadnt  been able to 
contact it. 
That I was not looking at the investment advice, only the mortgage advice.
That the advice  took place before mortgages were regulated.
Mr and Mrs P were  naturally  disappointed with my provisional decision  and sent me further 
information and arguments to consider. 
In summary  they said:
It was important that I understand that the adviser (Mr D) recommended only one 
lender, because it suited him financially.
The sole purpose  of re-mortgaging their UK property was to part-fund the purchase 
of the Spanish  property.
Their decision to purchase the Spanish property was based  on documents and 
information provided by Mr D that this was a sound  investment.
They had figures to prove the vastly overstated  rental figures they were given for 
the Spanish property.
Mr D was a Director of Ocean View  Properties Ltd at the time, the company 
developing the Spanish property.
More recently Mr and Mrs P have told us that the business has ceased  trading and may be 
insolvent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29739842Firstly I apologise for the length of time its taken to issue this final decision. As Mr and Mrs P 
are aware weve been considering a number  of complaints with similar  issues to theirs. We 
wanted to make sure that these were  dealt with consistently and that we helped people  were 
we could. 
I thought Mr and Mrs Ps evidence about  the connection between  the mortgage  adviser  and 
Ocean View Properties  was compelling and I wanted to see whether that would enable us to 
consider the complaint in a different way. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P again  but Ive concluded that I can only look at this 
complaint in the way I did in my provisional  decision. In other words in the context of the 
mortgage advice  and whether the adviser  complied with the code  of practice applicable  at 
the time.  
That means that I havent changed my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs P received their mortgage advice in 2003. That was before  mortgages were 
regulated. The reason  we can consider that advice is because the business was registered 
with the Mortgage Code  Compliance Board (MCCB). 
The MCCB  was a voluntary scheme that mortgage brokers  could sign up to. It set out 
standards which mortgage lenders  and intermediaries had to meet.  These standards  were  
set out in The Mortgage Code.
The Mortgage Code  was policed by one of our predecessor schemes, The Mortgage Code 
Arbitration Scheme (MCAS). 
When mortgages became  regulated on 31 October 2004 transitional  arrangements were  put 
in place [The Mortgages and General Insurance Complaints Transitional Order]  to allow us 
to consider complaints against businesses  that were previously covered by MCAS. But the 
arrangements gave us only limited  retrospective powers.
Of relevance to this complaint the transitional order only allows us to look at activities  which  
the former  scheme  applied to  in this case arranging a mortgage. And we can only look at 
what the predecessor  scheme could look at, in this case whether the business complied with 
the mortgage code.
There are some circumstances  post-regulation   where we may also be able to consider 
investment advice if it is given alongside  mortgage advice. Thats  because  it may be an 
ancillary activity covered  by the new regulations. 
But MCAS couldnt consider ancillary activities and so we cant  consider them either  if 
were looking at a complaint which relates  to something that happened before 31 October  
2004.
Mr and Mrs P have  explained their complaint very clearly. From what  theyve told us I think  
its likely  that Mr D gave them investment advice as well as mortgage advice. 
Their explanation of what happened  is very plausible  and theyve provided evidence  to show 
that when he gave the mortgage advice Mr D was also a director of Ocean View Properties. 
So it does seem likely that he was promoting the development  to Mr and Mrs P as well as 
arranging finance  to enable them to go ahead with their purchase.
Ref: DRN29739843I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ps integrity and I can fully see why they feel aggrieved and why 
theyve brought  this complaint. 
The difficulty  here is that I can only look at the mortgage advice given. In other  words  did a 
part interest-only mortgage fit Mr and Mrs Ps needs  at the time? I explained in my 
provisional decision why I thought it did. They wanted to borrow the money if they could and 
the part interest-only mortgage was affordable  to them. I think  they understood how the 
mortgage worked and that theyd have to repay  the interest-only part at the end of the term. 
They said theyd meet the capital repayment  by overpayments or lump-sum  payments and 
they were in a position to do that. It was a reasonable  repayment  plan and acceptable to 
their lender.  So I dont  think  the mortgage  advice  itself was wrong.
I think Mr and Mrs P would acknowledge that their difficulties  have arisen from the fact that 
the investment  they made wasnt  as lucrative as theyd been led to believe.  It may be that 
the advice to invest in that particular development was flawed. It may have been too risky for 
them. But I cant look at that.
I know this isnt what Mr and Mrs P want to hear and I am really sorry that we cant  help 
them. I hope theyll understand  that Im not saying they havent been  let down by the adviser. 
Simply that I dont think the mortgage  advice  was wrong so I cant  fairly uphold  the 
complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 September 2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29739844copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about mortgage advice they were given by MCD  Insurance  Services in 2003.  
Background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs P decided  to invest in an overseas property development. They needed  money  to 
pay the deposit.
Having received  advice from MCD they took out a mortgage  with a high-street lender. Part was on a 
repayment basis  and part, around  £70,000,  on an interest-only basis. The mortgage  application 
recorded that this part would be repaid by overpayments/lump-sum
payments.
Mr and Mrs Ps representative tried to complain  to MCD in April 2015. It said the mortgage was 
unsuitable because Mr and Mrs P had no way of repaying  the interest-only part at the end of the term.
MCD didnt respond and we havent been able to contact  it. It seems the business may have  closed 
down around ten years  ago.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that the business  hasnt responded  means we have limited information from the time.  That 
makes deciding  whats likely to have happened,  and been discussed, more  difficult. We have Mr and 
Mrs Ps recollections but memories wont  be fresh and some  things may have been forgotten.
In these circumstances I think its fair that I look at the overall circumstances as they were at the time 
to decide whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to remember that Im not looking at the investment advice here, only the mortgage 
advice.
Its also important to remember that this advice took place before mortgages were regulated  in the 
way they are now. Under the code that applied at the time the adviser had to consider  Mr and Mrs Ps 
requirements and help them choose a mortgage to fit their needs. That included taking  into account 
whether they could afford the mortgage repayments and whether theyd  be able to repay  what they 
borrowed.
Mr and Mrs P had decided to buy an overseas  property  and had paid an initial deposit of around 
£5,000. They were  looking for a way to borrow  the balance of the deposit on affordable terms.
The mortgage  application records that Mr and Mrs P were both employed with a combined income  of 
between £86,000 and £96,000. Mr P was a director of his own company and it seems he took 
bonuses from the business as well as leaving money invested.
Mr and Mrs P completed the mortgage on a self-certified  basis.  The mortgage was thought to be 
affordable on the figures they gave, and Mr and Mrs P confirmed that it was. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that was wrong.
It seems likely that Mr and Mrs P chose  to take part of the mortgage on an interest-only basis to keep 
initial costs low. Thats  understandable as this was the additional part of the borrowing needed  for the 
overseas investment. But I think they would have understood and discussed with the adviser that 
Ref: DRN29739845theyd need provision to repay this money at or before  the end of the term. The mortgage offer made  
clear that it was Mr and Mrs Ps responsibility  to make sure they had a suitable plan in place for this.
The mortgage  application asks please indicate below  how you plan to repay  the loan.  Recorded 
below this is overpayments/lump sum payments. And Ive seen an email from Mr P to the adviser 
showing that the flexibility of being able to overpay the mortgage was important to him.
So, on balance,  I think its likely this was discussed with the adviser and that it would have seemed  
reasonable at the time. I think  Mr and Mrs P may well have anticipated  being  able to make 
overpayments and lump sums from their combined  incomes. In fact I understand thats what has 
happened. The overseas property isnt as profitable as theyd anticipated  and I understand theyre  
struggling to repay  a foreign  mortgage.  But the interest-only part of their UK mortgage is gradually  
being reduced.
In all the circumstances it seems to me likely  that the adviser considered Mr and Mrs Ps requirements 
and recommended an option  which met their needs at the time. I think  both he and Mr and Mrs P 
would, at the time, have thought the repayment plan was reasonable.
Im sorry Mr and Mrs Ps plans didnt turn out as they hoped. But I dont think the mortgage advice  
was wrong so I cant fairly uphold  their complaint.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded not to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN2973984