K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about Legal  and General Assurance  Society  Limited (L&G). Hes unhappy 
with the advice he received to transfer  from his employers pension scheme to a personal 
pension policy (PPP) with L&G. Mr L considers that the advice  was inappropriate.
background
Further to receiving advice from L&G in 1991 Mr L transferred benefits hed built up in his 
employers pension scheme (the Armed Forces Pension Scheme  (AFPS)) to a PPP with 
L&G.
On 23 November 2001 L&G wrote to Mr L and in summary said:
its records showed Mr L transferred from an employers scheme to a PPP with it
this type of transfer took benefits Mr L had built up in his employers pension scheme 
and transferred them to a PPP
the then regulator (the Personal  Investment  Authority)  had asked all firms to offer 
investors like Mr L the chance to have their case checked to establish whether they 
had been correctly advised to transfer
if Mr L had been  badly advised  and lost out he would be entitled to compensation
L&G enclosed a letter  outlining the check it had carried out and in summary said:
Mr Ls case had been reviewed in accordance with the regulators guidelines
the current value  of Mr Ls transferred benefits had been compared to the current 
value of those  benefits as if theyd  remained in the AFPS 
it had found  no cause for concern  in Mr Ls case. When  assessed  in accordance with 
the terms laid down  by the regulator,  Mr Ls transfer  did not show  any loss. So it 
didnt propose  to review the case further
it included a schedule  showing  a summary of its calculations,  part of which included 
certain assumptions as it hadnt  been able to obtain  all the necessary information
unless Mr L could  provide L&G with actual  data in place of its assumptions Mr Ls 
case would be closed
if Mr L was dissatisfied with its result he needed  to write to L&G within 28 days  with 
his concerns and it would arrange  for his case to be looked  at again by senior  
management. Mr L could  also file a complaint with the PIA Ombudsman
In 2016 Mr L raised concerns about  the advice he received in 1991.  L&G sent its final 
response to Mr L on 1 August 2016. It explained  it had already  reviewed  the sale of Mr Ls 
pension in November  2001 to see if hed been financially disadvantaged by transferring his 
AFPS pension to L&G. And having  done so it concluded Mr L was no worse off. L&G said it 
wouldnt therefore revisit Mr Ls concerns about the 1991 advice. 
In March 2019 Mr L contacted L&G again  to complain about the sale of his PPP.  He asked 
L&G to provide some of the original sale documentation.
L&G provided Mr L with the information he requested. Having reviewed the documentation 
Mr L expressed further concerns about  the sale of his PPP. In summary he said: 
he was never advised about the risks of transferring out of the AFPS 
his application  form and information  had been  fraudulently altered with details  added  
after hed signed it
Ref: DRN20055082L&G replied  to Mr L in April 2019  saying it had reviewed the sale of his plan in 2001  and 
already concluded it had been mis-sold. L&G said it noted Mr Ls concerns  about his 
application form but if what hed said did turn out to be true, the result  of its review would still 
be the same  as that outlined in 2001.  It confirmed it wouldnt  look again at the advice  Mr L 
received in 1991.
Unhappy with L&Gs response Mr L referred  his complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
he acknowledged Mr Ls concerns about L&G altering his original transfer 
documents. But pointed out that L&G had already  accepted  Mr L shouldnt have been  
advised to transfer  his AFPS
the purpose of the pension review, as directed  by the regulator  had been to draw a 
line under the mis-selling that had happened
L&G had calculated  whether Mr L had suffered a financial loss as a result  of the 
advice hed received in 1991  and concluded he hadnt
L&Gs loss calculation  had been  carried out in line with what was expected at the 
time 
he wasnt able to conclude L&G needed to review the advice Mr L received again  or 
conduct another loss assessment
Mr L disagreed with our investigator and said he still had concerns about  L&G altering 
paperwork and maintained that it had given him poor advice.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why, but before I do, I should  emphasise that while  Ive 
taken serious note of the comments made  by both parties, I have limited my response to 
what I consider to be the issues  central  to this complaint.
I should firstly say I have  real sympathy  for Mr L. Its clear  to me from his submissions that 
he has been through a great  deal and that he continues to face challenges with his health. 
Im very sorry to hear of the situation  Mr L is in and certainly dont doubt  his sincerity or the 
strength of feeling  with which he brings his complaint.
The key consideration here however is whether  there  are any reasonable grounds  on which I 
should direct  L&G to review the 1991 advice Mr L received again. I dont think there are. And 
Im afraid theres very little I can add without repeating much of what Mr L has been  told by 
L&G and our investigator
As has already  been explained, the advice that Mr L was given  to transfer was reviewed in 
2001 as part of the regulators  industry wide Pension Review. This was initiated by the 
regulator because  it feared that investors like Mr L may have  been  given poor advice which 
didnt meet the required standards  at the time.
Ref: DRN20055083I havent seen  any persuasive evidence that L&G didnt complete  the pension  review in line 
with its regulatory  obligations. 
I understand Mr L has concerns about assumptions L&G used  as part of its review 
calculations and that L&G may not have directly  contacted the AFPS for specific information 
about his pension. But Im mindful that L&Gs 2001  letter to Mr L regarding the review did 
explain this, saying:
Please note that our calculations  have  been  based  on information regarding  the benefit 
structure of the [AFPS].  This information  has been  provided by a third party  and is, to the 
best of our knowledge,  accurate as at the date of this letter. However, we have been unable  
to obtain all the necessary information in relation  to the benefits  that would have been paid 
by the [AFPS] and, accordingly we have had to make certain assumptions.  The attached 
appendix details  the assumptions  that we have  had to make () Your  case will be closed 
unless you are able to supply us with actual data (). 
Based on L&Gs review outcome letter to Mr L at the time Im satisfied  L&G was clear  about 
the basis of its calculation and that it invited Mr L to provide specific information  in place of 
the assumptions it had made if he wished to do so. I havent seen anything  to suggest Mr L 
did this so I consider  it reasonable  that L&G concluded its review  on the basis it did. 
I note that in his submissions to this service Mr L has said he didnt receive  L&Gs pension 
review outcome letter. But Im mindful that the letter was sent to what Mr L has confirmed  
was his correct  address  at the time. 
Mr L has alleged that L&G fraudulently  added  information to his 1991 transfer application 
form. He feels strongly that this indicates the 1991 advice he received was inappropriate. I 
appreciate Mr Ls concerns but its important to note that theres no dispute  about the fact 
that the advice  Mr L received to transfer  his AFPS pension to an L&G PPP was unsuitable. 
Indeed L&G has confirmed directly with Mr L that it had agreed his PPP had been mis-sold. 
I understand that, with the assistance of his solicitor,  Mr L intends to take forward his 
concerns about  his application form being altered by L&G. But I dont consider this issue to 
be entirely relevant  to Mr Ls complaint  here about  the 1991  advice he received. I say this 
because irrespective of the veracity  of Mr Ls claims,  the fact remains  that L&G accepted the 
advice given to Mr L in 1991 was unsuitable. Because of this Mr Ls pension  review outcome 
wouldve always been the same- the starting  point was and still wouldve been (even if Mr 
Ls claims were proven  at the time) that his PPP had been  mis-sold. And the pension  review 
loss calculation was done on this basis. So I cant fairly conclude Mr Ls claims here are 
reasonable grounds upon which L&G should be required to review the 1991 advice Mr L 
received again.
Its important to note that as part of the industry  wide Pension Review and under the express  
guidance of the regulator, L&G was only required to review the advice Mr L received once. 
And this had to be based on assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact 
these assumptions may not have achieved what was expected (or accounted for every 
specific benefit held under a former  employers  pension  scheme) isnt grounds to redo the 
calculation. This is because the Pension Review was only intended to provide, where  
appropriate, the right amount of redress to consumers to compensate them as much as 
possible for any financial loss they were  identified to have suffered as a result of their 
transfer out of a former employers pension  scheme.  In Mr Ls case, no financial loss was 
identified. 
Ref: DRN20055084I think its important to remember  the aim of the Pensions Review was effectively to draw a 
line under  any pension mis-selling and put matters right at that time.  It was a one-off 
exercise and from everything Ive seen L&G carried out the review it was required to. L&G 
had to to carry out internal quality assurance  checks to ensure  that the calculations were  
correct and in line with the appropriate guidance. L&G was also subject to regular  
inspections from the regulator to ensure that the review had been carried out in line with the 
guidance.
I sympathise with Mr L and understand why hes unhappy with L&Gs calculation and the 
Pension Review outcome.  But this was the then regulators  decision on how to deal with the 
mis-selling problem. And so its not something  this service can now challenge or ignore.
I realise hell be disappointed with my decision  but as Ive already explained, based on 
everything Ive seen I am not persuaded to direct L&G to meet Mr Ls request for it to review 
the 1991 advice he received again. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005508