K821x#15complaint
Mr T complained that Wilson & Co (Motor Sales) Limited (Wilson & Co) mis-sold him a type 
of payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a hire purchase car loan in 2006.  We now 
know what he was actually sold was a policy comprising  life insurance and critical illness 
cover (CIC).
background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said it ought to be upheld. They 
thought the policy wasnt suitable  for Mr T and that he shouldnt  have been sold it.
Wilson & Co disagreed  with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Im upholding  Mr Ts complaint.
Mr T was sold this cover by a salesperson during a car sale discussion. Mr Ts main  point  of 
complaint is that he was made to feel he ought to buy some form of insurance protection in 
order to make sure his car purchase  was agreed and went  through as planned. Wilson & Co 
was arranging the lending and Mr T implies  that he was told if he didnt agree to either  PPI or 
a similar  form of insurance protection, he wouldnt  be lent the money  for his new car.
Clearly Im not going to be able to ever establish for sure whether he was told such a thing. 
But Ive thought about the situation in which the sale took place and also about Mr Ts age 
and general circumstances. I was also sent quite a lot of documentation relating to the sale.  
These items  included the credit agreement forms and demands and needs documents 
which, typically, set out any recommendations that are made  to consumers during these 
types of meetings.
I specifically looked  at the recommendations the car salesperson made  to Mr T in respect  of 
PPI or similar types of insurance  protection. The types of insurance products on offer ranged 
from the most comprehensive  form of PPI (unemployment, accident / sickness, life and CIC 
cover) - to lesser types  of protection. There was a menu of different choices on offer.
I can see these insurance products were all shown to be optional  and I agree the paperwork 
appeared to give Mr T a choice (although he says he was told he had to pick something). 
But Im concerned that the reasons for the recommendations and why they were  made  to Mr 
T by the salesperson werent set out clearly  or with any rationale. In my view,  he seems to 
have been advised to take out as much cover as was possible, without a proper  assessment  
of his individual circumstances or financial needs.
For example, looking  at Mr Ts situation I see he appears to have been in a skilled  
profession and had been so for a while. Although  the salesperson recorded on the forms that 
Mr Ts provision of unemployment and sickness cover was non-existent,  I doubt that. And Mr 
Ref: DRN29266432T himself  says he enjoyed some sickness protection  with his job. I think its likely  he would 
have had moderate redundancy cover and relatively good sickness protection.
So I question the thoroughness of the salespersons assessment of Mr Ts situation. They  
went on to recommend and sell him the life and CIC cover which I can see no real basis  for. 
Mr T was only in his late twenties and had no dependants  at that point and the CIC 
protection related to serious  illnesses which I dont think Mr T would have considered  likely 
at that point in his life. So throughout  everything Ive been sent theres no rationale  evident 
as to why the salesperson recommended this type of cover for Mr T.
Taking what I know about Mr Ts circumstances and the lack of explanation from Wilson and 
Co Im afraid  I think  there  was a very strong intention evident during this sale to sell Mr T a 
PPI type policy  with his new car. 
In short,  I dont think what he was sold was suitable for him. So Im upholding his complaint.
what Wilson  & Co  should do to put things  right  
Wilson & Co should put Mr T into the position  hed be in if hed never bought the PPI. So it 
should:
Pay Mr T the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets the 
amount back.  The rate of interest is 8% per year .
If Mr T made any successful claims under the PPI policy  Wilson & Co can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Wilson & Co to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr T a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I direct Wilson & Co (Motor 
Sales) Limited to pay him the compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2926643