K821x#15complaint
Mrs B, represented by her husband, complains that Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) unfairly 
declined her claim under her pet insurance policy. 
background
In June 2018, Mrs B purchased a pet insurance policy (the policy) which was underwritten  
by Allianz. The policy was taken out to cover her pet dog, whom Ill refer to as C. 
Shortly after the policy start date, C required surgery for a ruptured  cruciate  ligament.  As a 
result, Mrs B submitted a claim under the policy to cover the cost of the vet bills.
Allianz declined  Mrs Bs claim on the basis that it didnt meet the terms of the policy. Allianz 
explained that while the policy covered injuries from the outset, it contained a 14-day 
deferment period  for any claims resulting from illnesses. Allianz concluded that Cs medical 
records showed that Cs ruptured cruciate  ligament was a result  of an illness  rather than an 
injury.
As Mrs B didnt agree  with the outcome of the claim,  she complained to Allianz about this. In 
response, Allianz maintained that the claim should  be declined and issued its final response.  
Mrs B brought her complaint to our service  for an independent review. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought the veterinary evidence  provided by Mrs B 
showed that Cs condition was a result of an injury  rather than an illness.  
Allianz didnt agree  with the outcome of the investigators assessment. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ive explained  why below.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy, Im satisfied that it excludes any 
claim for an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover. This category of illness is 
defined in the policy wording as:
Any illness that showed clinical signs in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy 
year, or b) the section being added  to your insurance.
Any illness that has the same diagnosis or clinical signs, as an illness  that showed 
clinical signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year,  or b) the section 
being added to your insurance.
Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical  sign that was 
noticed in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year,  or b) the section  being  
added to your insurance.
Any illness that is caused by, relates to, or results from an illness  that showed clinical 
signs, in the first 14 days of a) your pets first policy year, or b) the section being 
added to your insurance.
This applies in all cases regardless  of whether  the clinical signs present in the same or 
different parts  of your pets body.  
Ref: DRN27458062The policy does, however, cover any injuries  incurred  by the pet during the first 14 days  of 
cover. The policy wording then goes on to define  an illness  and injury  as follows:
Illness: Any change(s)  to a normal healthy state,  sickness, disease, defects and 
abnormalities, including  defects and abnormalities your pet was born with or were 
passed on by his/her  parents. 
Injury: Physical damage or trauma caused  immediately by an accident.  Not any 
physical damage  or trauma that happens  over a period of time.
In this case, its not in dispute that C required treatment during  the first 14 days of the policy 
start date. So, the key thing for me to decide  is whether I think,  based  on the information 
provided, that Cs ruptured cruciate ligament was most likely caused by an injury or an 
illness. Because Allianz is seeking to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim, it needs to 
show the claim can reasonably be excluded on this basis.
Allianz says that Cs ruptured cruciate ligament was a result of an illness.  In support of this, 
Allianz has relied on an entry in Cs veterinary records,  where the operating  vet stated the 
following: There is a marked  effusion  of the L stifle and CrCL degeneration is suspected.
Allianz has explained that its in-house vet has reviewed the available  information, including  
Cs medical records, and is in agreement that Cs condition should be categorised  as an 
illness, not an injury. In addition to this, Allianz  has also referred our service  to veterinary 
articles which  it says shows that the ruptured  cruciate ligaments are commonly the result of 
cruciate disease.
Mrs B, on the other hand, believes that Cs ruptured cruciate ligament was a result of an 
injury. In support  of this shes provided  both Allianz and our service with a letter from Cs vet, 
in which  he stated the following: 
[C] presented to our clinic on 21 June 2018  following an acute onset lameness which 
occurred following a fall on a walk. [C] has no previous history of lameness and the 
orthopaedic surgeon who subsequently examined her radiographs made no 
comment on disease in the contralateral limb. I would therefore suggest that the fall 
[C] sustained on her walk was the likely cause of the cruciate  rupture. 
Mrs B has also obtained an email from Cs surgeon, in which he said he had no reason to 
contradict [Cs vet] in his assessment of the cause  of injury in this case . 
So, where theres a difference of professional  opinion, I have to decide  what  I think is most 
likely to have happened, based on all available evidence. While Ive noted what Allianz has 
said, including its concerns about  what the surgeon noted in Cs medical records,  I dont  
think Allianz has adequately shown the claim can reasonably be excluded  on the basis  that it 
was a result  of an illness. 
The weight of all available evidence shows that it was unlikely C had a diseased cruciate or 
any other innate condition that was the dominant and effective cause of the rupturing of Cs 
cruciate ligament.  While the surgeons comments mentioned that he suspected degeneration  
might be the cause of the claim,  both Cs vet and Cs surgeon have  with the benefit  of 
closer consideration  of the case  subsequently  clarified that the more likely cause of Cs 
ruptured cruciate was due to an injury which C sustained following a fall. 
Ref: DRN27458063In addition to this, Cs vet has also confirmed that C had no history of lameness and that the 
orthopaedic surgeon who subsequently examined Cs radiographs didnt comment on any 
underlying disease. This suggests  that the Cs claim was most likely the result  of an injury  
rather than an illness  and, in the circumstances  of this case, I think it would be unfair to 
allow early, less-considered remarks to carry more weight  than later more-considered 
comments from both the treating vet and veterinary surgeon.   
I appreciate Allianz  has provided some additional information in the form of online veterinary 
articles which  talk about the common  causes of ruptured cruciate ligaments. However, Ive 
noted that a number of online articles dont rule out the fact that ruptures in cruciate 
ligaments can be linked to other factors including the dogs weight and activities  such as 
jumping and turning  sharply. And again,  generic evidence of this nature carries less weight 
than the expert opinions  of treating vets and/or veterinary  surgeons. 
So, based  on the weight of all competing  veterinary evidence, I am not persuaded there is 
enough for Allianz to say that C had an illness that was presenting clinical  signs  in the first 
14 days of cover. I therefore dont think Allianz  acted  fairly in declining  Mrs Bs claim.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is to uphold this complaint.  I therefore require Allianz  
Insurance Plc to:
pay Mrs Bs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions (i.e. subject 
to the usual policy limits,  excesses, etc); and
if Mrs B has paid any part of the claim, interest  should  be added to that amount at 8% 
simple a year (less any tax properly deductible) from the date of her payment to the 
date Allianz Insurance Plc settles the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2745806