K821x#15complaint
Miss S, who is represented  by Mr M, complains that FirstRand Bank Limited refused to let 
her reject a faulty car.
background
In January 2018 Miss S acquired a second  hand car at a cost of £8,490 funded by a hire 
purchase agreement.  It was some eight years old and had done 58,501 miles. She says she 
picked it up at night  and the process was hurried. Shortly  after picking it up the oil warning  
light came  on and she discovered the engine had very little oil. More faults appeared and 
she contacted  the dealer, but was unable to get matters satisfactorily resolved.
She contacted FirstRand and it arranged for an independent inspection. This identified  a 
number of faults and the business agreed to pay for these. She wasnt happy  with the 
proposed timescale  and Mr M along with a friend  carried out some repairs.  FirstRand  
refused to pay for those repairs as they hadnt been carried out by a VAT registered  
company.
Miss S brought her complaint where  it was considered by one of our adjudicators who 
recommended it be upheld. He noted the work which was needed had been identified in the 
independent report, but it was unclear what work  had already been  done by Mr M and his 
friend. Mr M was unable to provide receipts for the parts he had bought and so the 
adjudicator concluded that it would be unreasonable to expect the business to pay for these.
He thought FirstRand had tried to engage with Miss S to provide a solution, but the option of 
having the car repaired by a local garage  hadnt been accepted. Our adjudicator thought  it 
would have been more straightforward  if the work was completed by the agreed  repairer,  but 
despite that he thought  the business remained responsible for ensuring any faults  deemed  to 
have been present at the point of sale were repaired. 
He suggested  FirstRand should instruct a garage to repair the outstanding faults that the 
report had identified. It should also ask the repairers  to make an assessment on the parts  
that had already been fitted  and whether the work was satisfactory. If they were satisfied that 
the work  had been done properly  then no further  action would be required.
He also noted  that Miss S had had limited use of the car since  she had only done 4,453  
miles in nine months. He suggested she receive  a refund of 10% of her monthly payments. 
The business didnt  agree and said Miss S had turned down the offer of repairs  and 
arranged for unauthorised repairs to be carried out. It said that if she had responded to its 
offer it may have been  able to make alternative  arrangements to assist, such as providing a 
loan car.
Mr M said the car was still leaking oil and he believed it would need a new engine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27437502In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
FirstRand is only liable for any inherent faults,  that is, those which were present at the point 
of sale. It isnt responsible  for items which have suffered fair wear and tear. This car was 
quite elderly and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect it to have been in showroom condition.
Also it is only reasonable to have expected Miss S and Mr M to have inspected  the car 
before buying  it and to have identified any obvious  issues. For example there was some  
damage to the bumper.  I appreciate Miss S has told us the collection was hurried, but that 
doesnt mean that FirstRand can be held responsible for those items. There is some  onus on 
the customer to make  sure the goods  they are buying are acceptable. 
I am satisfied that the business offered to have the car repaired, but this was rejected by 
Miss S and Mr M. That is unfortunate. I can understand  their desire  to have the repairs  
carried out without  delay, but I fear that decision has only served to prolong a resolution of 
the matter later on.
I can appreciate the business positon in that it tried to resolve the faults and was rebuffed.  
Nevertheless the independent  report has identified several faults which  were present at the 
point of sale and Miss S is entitled to have  those repaired if Mr Ms work has not already 
addressed them. The report identified the following as being present at the point of sale:
     A cooling fan fault
     Fault(s) with the operating/power supply system
     The  cam cover  gasket requires replacement in order to rectify the engine oil leak.
I believe it only fair that the car be taken to a garage  and these  issues examined and 
repaired where necessary. I consider it reasonable to use a garage near to where Miss S 
lives rather than the dealer. I will leave it to the business and Miss S to agree on a garage, 
but I believe it should be VAT registered.
I have taken note of the more recent  problems  and the distress  and inconvenience Miss S 
has encountered. I cannot say that any recent  issue can be regarded as present at the point 
Ref: DRN27437503of sale and I am satisfied  that the independent report  set out those  items  which  First Rand 
are responsible for repairing. 
I can see Miss S has had limited use of it and although I consider part of the cause of the 
delay in having the car fixed lies with her and Mr M, I agree with our adjudicator that she 
should receive a small rebate on her monthly payments. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this report and I direct FirstRand Bank Limited to cover the 
cost of repairs to the inherent faults  identified  by the independent report  as set out above.  
These should be carried out by a VAT registered garage convenient to Miss S, who I trust 
will liaise with the business  to ensure this is done as soon as is feasible.  If any of those  faults 
no longer need  to be repaired First Rand is not to be held responsible  for any costs incurred 
by Miss S in having the work done earlier. FirstRand  should  also refund 10% of Miss Ss 
monthly payments  from June to 2018  until the repairs are carried  out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2743750