K821x#15complaint
Ms J complained about Advantage  Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car repair
claim under her car insurance policy.
background
Ms Js car was stolen  but later recovered  damaged. Advantage agreed to repair  it. But Ms J
felt that they took too long, and she had to keep  chasing them. She was also unhappy that
they didnt give her a courtesy car for all the time she was without her own car, and that
the first courtesy car they gave her wasnt suitable. Advantage felt that they had done more
than they were obliged to as regards the courtesy  car, but they did think  the repairs should
have happened  more quickly. They offered her compensation, but she didnt think it was
enough.
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She thought  that
theyd resolved the matter fairly  and that their compensation was adequate. Ms J didnt
agree and so Ive been asked to decide.  
I issued my provisional decision on the case  on 13 July 2020 saying that I intended to uphold  
her complaint. Both Ms J and Advantage have since replied, as I explain below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms J felt that Advantage  should have given her a courtesy car from the time the police
released her car. But Advantages  file notes say that it was only on 19 March that she told
them her car had been found. Insurers are entitled  to assess a cars damage to enable them
to decide if its repairable or not. I could see Advantage  arranged  for Ms Js car to be 
collected and taken to an independent  engineer to assess the damage and the engineer  
reported to Advantage on about  28 March.  So I didnt think  there was any delay there.
I looked at Ms Js policy and its clear  that she was only entitled  to a courtesy car for the
duration of the repairs and wasnt  entitled  to one at all if her car was deemed to be a total
loss. This is a common clause in car insurance policies, and I didnt find it unreasonable.
Advantages authorised repairers  (Advantages garage) collected her car on 3 April and
they gave her a courtesy car the next day. So I didnt think  that they did anything  wrong
there.
It seems  there was then some delay in establishing  which garage would do the repairs but
this was sorted out on about 9 April.  I understand that a third party involved in the process
offered Ms J her £25 for this delay. But my focus  here is Advantage as her insurer.
At the time Ms J was pregnant and had a young  child. Ms J said that the courtesy  car
smelt bad and had a window chip and slow puncture and wasnt roadworthy. It also didnt fit
a child buggy.  Ms Js policy says that their garage would provide the courtesy car and it
would only be a group  A car, so not a like for like with the one being  repaired. But we still
would expect it to be in reasonable condition. The garage said their courtesy car wasnt
damaged but they havent given  us any more information, so theres no reason to disbelieve
Ms J. 
Ref: DRN23424952In any event, Advantage did, as a gesture of goodwill,  replace  that courtesy car with a
group D car, and they let her keep that until they returned her own car to her. They  said it
cost them  over £600 to hire the car. So they felt theyd done more than they had to. 
But she says they only changed the car after much persuasion, and even then they said 
theyd take it back  when they wanted and replace it with a group A. She said that not 
knowing when she might have to return it caused her some stress,  because she was 
expecting her baby  imminently.
The investigator felt that Advantage had done more than they had to, so had acted more
than fairly  and reasonably. But I thought that because its Advantages responsibility to 
provide a courtesy car, and a reasonable one, they would at the very least have had to 
provide a replacement group A car, so their goodwill element is only the cost difference  
between those two groups.  And if the repairs hadnt taken so long Advantage wouldnt have 
had to provide  a courtesy car for as long as they did and it wouldnt have  cost them  so much.  
Advantage accepted that the repairs took longer than they would have expected.  They 
suggested this was because their garage  had to send  her car to a manufacturer  garage  for 
its locks to be changed and the two garages didnt liaise as they should. But ultimately  
Advantage are responsible for the repairs and its up to them to monitor  them  and ensure 
they progress.  Instead  Ms J spent a great deal of time, including  around  50 calls,  trying to 
progress things, as her phone bills show. Advantage offered her £150 compensation for the 
delay and also offered to refund her the costs  of those calls,  but she is more concerned 
about the inconvenience.
I agreed that the total compensation of £150 Advantage have offered doesnt properly reflect
that. Advantage had the information on which to decide if her car was repairable at about the
end of March  but they didnt return her car repaired until about mid-June, about two and half
months later, and only about a week before her baby was due. 
I dont think that was reasonable. It was a particularly stressful  time for Ms J and the repair 
delays all added to the inconvenience to her. So I thought that compensation of £300 more  
fairly reflects the trouble and inconvenience Ms J has experienced as a result of the repair 
delay and so Advantage  should  pay her that, less the £150 if theyve already paid that to 
her.
Ms J was happy with my provisional decision and Advantage had nothing to add, and so I 
maintain my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision to 
uphold Ms Js complaint  and require Advantage Insurance Company Limited  to pay her £300 
compensation, less £150 if they have  already  paid her that.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23424953Advantage must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Ms 
J accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Advantage consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, they should tell Ms J how much they have  taken off and give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2342495