K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains about a mid-term  additional premium Admiral  Insurance Company Limited 
charged for her motor insurance  policy because of an incident it claims her vehicle had been  
involved in. 
background
Mrs P was involved  in a minor driving incident in August 2018 so she called Admiral to notify 
it about what had happened. Her car was undamaged but she wanted  to let it know what had 
happened in case  the third party vehicle  owner  made a claim.  During  the notification  call 
Admiral asked Mrs P whether there  was any existing damage to her car that pre-dated  the 
incident. Mrs P confirmed that her husband had caused a small scratch  and dent to the car 
when hed hit the garden wall. Admiral  asked Mrs P when this had happened  and she said 
she thought it was about a year ago. Admiral  told Mrs P it was just asking her about it for 
information purposes only in case there was a claim against her policy. It would then know 
which damage was genuinely related to the claim.
A few days  later Mrs P received a letter from Admiral  telling  her that her premium had been 
increased by £141.69  because of the previous, unrecorded incident the previous year.  
Mrs P complained to Admiral that it was unfair  to charge  her an additional premium (AP). 
Admiral looked into Mrs Ps complaint but didnt  think itd done anything wrong. It said if    
Mrs P had told it about the incident  when itd happened then it would have been taken into 
account when  calculating her next policy renewal premium (April 2018) but as she hadnt it 
had rated  the incident now and was charging  her an AP. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Mrs P complained to this service.  Our 
adjudicator looked into her complaint  and recommended that it was upheld.  He thought there 
was no basis for Admiral to charge Mrs P an AP. He thought it hadnt shown shed lacked 
reasonable care in failing  to disclose such a minor  incident. He thought  Admiral  should  
refund the AP with interest if it had collected  it. He also thought entries on any internal and 
external databases  should be removed and that Admiral  should  pay Mrs P compensation of 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused her.
Admiral disagreed with our adjudicators  recommendations  so the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree that this is a complaint that should 
be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mrs P received her 2018 renewal notice  about  three weeks before her policy renewed in 
April 2018. The policy was set to auto renew based  on existing information held but asked 
that any changes  be notified. The renewal invitation contained the following statement on 
page 2:
Claims:  Have  you or any driver had any accidents, incidents, thefts or losses, or made  any 
claims (fault or non-fault) during the past 3 years...  
Ref: DRN27767432I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mrs P not to think she needed to tell Admiral about the 
very minor damage her husband  caused to the car when he scraped a wall on their 
driveway. The statement  above is headed  claims. It doesnt  say that Admiral wants  to know  
about any damage the vehicle sustains however minor. If it did, I may be reaching a very 
different conclusion. Vehicles do sustain minor damage (akin  to wear and tear) which  is 
never intended to be something that could  form the basis of an insurance  claim. And its not 
unreasonable to think  that Mrs P thought this minor damage fell into that category. So Im 
unable to reasonably agree that the statement is worded in such a way as to elicit the 
information Admiral says it wants to know.  
So, as Admiral didnt  ask Mrs P to tell it about  very minor damage she cant  be said to have 
failed to take reasonable care to disclose relevant information. The law is clear about how 
businesses can remedy careless misrepresentations by consumers.  This is set out in The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). As Admiral  is 
aware, none of the remedies allow a business to charge a mid-term AP. 
But I dont think we need to consider CIDRA here.  Thats  because  I dont think Admiral  has 
shown that Mrs P lacked  reasonable  care. She can only be shown to have done  so if 
Admiral asked a clear question to get the information it desired  and she failed to take 
reasonable care to answer it. I dont  think  the statement in the renewal invitation is clear 
enough. Not to get the information  Admiral says it wants  in any event. 
Ive listened to the telephone call between Admiral and Mrs P when she calls to notify it 
about the incident shed  been involved in the day before. And when Admiral asks Mrs P 
about any other damage thats on the car it clearly  says it wants  to know about it for 
information purposes only, so it couldnt  be claimed for either then or in the future. Admiral 
goes on to say its assuming  an incident date of a year previously (August 2017). But at no 
point does Admiral  say to Mrs P that it is going  to charge her an AP as a consequence of the 
information shes provided. 
I dont think thats  particularly fair. If the consequence of disclosing such minor damage  is an 
AP I think it only fair that Admiral say so. Its disingenuous to say to Mrs P that it wants  to 
know only for information purposes. There was another purpose.  It used the information to 
re-rate the policy  and charge a mid-term premium. So I can understand why receipt  of the 
letter informing her she was being charged an AP upset Mrs P. And I think  Admiral needs  to 
pay her compensation  of £100 in acknowledgement of the trouble  and upset its actions have 
caused.
Its not clear to me from the information  Ive seen whether or not Admiral collected the AP. 
If it did, I think it needs to return it to Mrs P with interest at this services usual rate of 8% 
simple a year from the date it took it to the date it repays it. If the 2017 incident has been 
logged on any databases, either  internally or externally, it should, in all fairness, be removed. 
Thats because the damage the car sustained was never something  that could form the 
basis of a claim.
Ref: DRN27767433my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to refund to Mrs P the additional premium  of £141.69 (if it collected it from her) 
together with interest*  at this services usual  rate of 8% simple per year from the date it 
collected the money to the date it repays  it. Any entries on any internal or external databases 
relating to the 2017 incident should also be removed.
I also require Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited to pay Mrs P compensation of £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience  its demand  for the additional premium  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If AXA Insurance  UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs P how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2776743