K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about what National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has done to 
put things right following his complaint about  its mis-sale to him of a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 6 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I didnt 
think that Mr A had lost out by the mis-sale  of the PPI policy  to him by NatWest.  I said I 
thought it was fair for NatWest to offset in full the compensation  which would otherwise be 
payable to Mr A because of this mis-sale  against the higher amount which I thought  hed 
received in benefits from that policy through the claims hed made on it.
NatWest said it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr A says he doesnt agree with my provisional  decision. He says he thinks that I didnt 
adequately consider his evidence and testimony.  And he thinks  that in making my 
provisional decision I took too much  account  of the views of NatWest, who he says had been 
shown to have  been wrong about  many  aspects of the case.  Mr A has also said that the PPI 
policy has never been of benefit to him and that my calculations about the benefits he 
received from the policy outweighing  its cost are wrong. In particular, he says that in these 
calculations I failed  to take account  of the interest  which he was charged on the PPI policy  
attached to his loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr A has said about why he thinks my calculations of the 
costs and benefits of the PPI to him are flawed.  But I dont think  hes provided any new 
information or arguments which I hadnt  already considered fully in making my provisional  
decision. And whilst he says that I havent taken account of the interest hes been  charged 
on the PPI policy,  I dont think this is the case.  In calculating the total cost of the PPI policy 
borne by Mr A, I did take account  of the interest  he was charged  on this portion of his loan.
Ive also thought about the comments Mr A has made about the things that NatWest have 
previously got wrong in considering his complaint.  But I dont think anything he has said has 
any specific relevance to my consideration of whether Mr A is due any compensation in 
relation to this mis-sale. As I said in my provisional decision, this PPI sale took place a very 
long time ago. So, in these circumstances,  its not altogether surprising that NatWest doesnt 
still have a great deal of information available to it about the sale.  But I remain of the view 
that, taking account  of all the information  which is available, Mr A hasnt lost out as a result 
of the mis-sale to him of his PPI policy. And nothing that Mr A has said in responding to my 
provisional decision has made me change my mind about  not upholding his complaint.
Ref: DRN28401942my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision I dont  think that Mr A 
has lost out as a result  of the mis-sale of the PPI to him and so I dont require 
National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further in relation to his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN28401943copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr A has complained about what National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  has done to put things 
right following his complaint  about its mis-sale to him of a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1990, Mr A took out a loan for £5,000 from NatWest. It appears that this loan was originally set up 
to run for a term of sixty months.  At the same time, he was sold a PPI policy to protect  the 
repayments on his loan if he was unable to work. Mr A says he thinks  the PPI premium he was 
charged for this policy  was £750 and that this amount was added  to his loan and therefore  attracted 
interest.
NatWest accepted  that the PPI policy had been  mis-sold to Mr A and offered to compensate  him for 
this. But it said the amount Mr A had paid for his PPI policy, including  the interest hed been  charged,  
was only £92.87. And it said that Mr As bank statements  show that hed received payments for claims 
made on this policy totalling  at least £5,265.60. And as this amount far exceeded what hed paid for 
his PPI policy,  NatWest said it didnt need to make a compensation  payment to him in respect of this 
PPI mis-sale. Since sending its final response letter to Mr A about his complaint,  NatWest has 
accepted that £329.10  of claims payments made to Mr A were subsequently refunded to the insurer. 
So it now thinks that Mr A received a total of at least £4,936.50 in net claims payments. 
As well as disagreeing  with NatWest over how much he was charged for the PPI, Mr A also says that 
he was required by the insurer  of the policy to pay back the major  part of the claims payments hed 
originally received under  the policy.  So he thinks that NatWest still needs to pay him compensation for 
the mis-sale.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Mr A had received 
more in claims payments  from his PPI policy than it had cost him. So he didnt think  that hed lost out 
as a result of the mis-sale. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  view, so the case  has been passed 
to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
NatWest has already accepted that the PPI was mis-sold to Mr A. So in this provisional decision Ive 
only looked at whether what  its done to put things right is fair.
This PPI sale took place  a very long time ago, so its not that surprising that neither NatWest nor Mr A 
have a great deal of information about it. In these circumstances, I need to decide  what  I think  is most 
likely to have happened,  based on the limited information available to me.
Ive first looked at whether NatWests assumption that Mr A paid £92.87,  including interest,  for his PPI 
policy is likely to be correct.  And from what  Ive seen, I dont think  that it is. 
NatWest appears to have calculated the single premium Mr A was charged for his policy  by taking the 
figure of £5,047.48  (shown on one of its computer records dated 5th October  2002 as the total loan 
amount borrowed) from the amount received by Mr A of £5,000 (as shown on his bank statement for 
August 1990). NatWest  has then added the interest that its estimated would have been charged on 
this premium over the life of the loan.
Ref: DRN28401944But from what  I can see, it seems most likely that Mr As loan was subsequently restructured, with the 
end dated extended to February 1996 and the monthly repayments slightly  reduced. And I think  its 
likely that the figure of £5,047.48  shown on NatWests computer record doesnt represent the total 
amount originally borrowed by Mr A in 1990 (including  the PPI single premium added to his loan). 
At our request, NatWest  has recalculated the gross redress due to Mr A based on what  it would have 
expected a consumer to be charged at that time for a single premium PPI policy  providing accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. It has used a figure of £800 as the likely premium for this level of 
cover on a loan of £5,000. This is a little more than the £750 which Mr A says he was charged for his 
cover and broadly  in line with what I would have expected. Adding interest of £562 to this premium  
gives a total estimated cost paid by Mr A for the PPI of £1,362. 
Based on the very limited information available,  I think that this revised estimate by NatWest  of what 
Mr A paid for his PPI policy is reasonable.
Ive next looked at whether its fair for NatWest  to use the PPI claims  which it says have been paid to 
Mr A to offset in full the compensation which would otherwise be payable to him for the mis-sale of the 
policy.
Mr A has said that the insurer  of his policy required him to pay back  all but twelve months of the 
claims payments it had made to him. He says this was because the insurer said he was only entitled 
to twelve  months of payments under his policy. So he doesnt  think  NatWest should be able to offset  
all the compensation otherwise due to him for the PPI mis-sale against these  claims payments.
I can see that Mr A originally  told our adjudicator that he paid back  these claims payments through a 
monthly payment plan following receipt of a letter threatening court action from the insurer. But 
NatWest says it has no record of Mr A being asked to make these repayments.  And there doesnt 
appear to be any evidence of regular repayments  being made to the insurer  on his bank statements. 
Mr A was subsequently asked if he could  provide any further information about the repayments hed 
made. He responded  saying  that he now thinks he paid back  all the claims payments hed received in 
1993 and 1994 in one payment using  his Visa card in a NatWest branch. But Mr A has been unable  to 
provide any evidence of this payment, or of the demand letter he says he received  from the insurer. 
However, even if Mr A did only ultimately  receive the benefit  of twelve monthly  claims  payments, 
these would still total £1,974.60.  This figure is higher than the revised  estimate for the total cost of his 
policy (including interest)  of £1,362. This means that Mr A hasnt lost out as a result of being  mis-sold  
his PPI policy  even if, as he says, he was required by the insurer to repay all but twelve months of the 
claims payments he received.
So, based on all the information currently available to me, I dont think it would  be fair for me to direct 
NatWest to do any more to compensate Mr A for the mis-sale  of PPI to him. I say this because  I think  
its most likely  that the benefit Mr A received from the policy outweighed what  it cost him. So I dont 
think that Mr A has lost out as a result of anything NatWest did wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold this complaint  against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840194