K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a loan in 
2011. Mr and Mrs T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI. Mr and Mrs T paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr T only,  in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 21 February  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
Santander didnt  need to pay back all the costs of the PPI, but that it did have to pay back  
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
21 March 2019.  But neither side had anything more to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent any new evidence or arguments in response to my provisional 
decision. So having reconsidered the case,  Ive come to the same conclusion  as before, for 
the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN29544052my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29544053COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out with a loan in 2011.  
Mr and Mrs T say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest. It covered  Mr T only, in case he was off work  
sick or lost his job.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think Mr and Mrs Ts PPI policy  was mis-sold here  Ill explain  
why.
Ive looked at the online  application process Mr and Mrs T wouldve  gone through. From what Ive 
seen, it wouldve described the PPI as optional and separate  to the loan, and Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve been offered  two tick boxes to choose from: one if they wanted PPI and one if they 
didnt. Both boxes  were equally  prominent.  They were then sent a credit agreement  with a 
separate section for PPI, which  again described it as optional, and it set out the PPIs cost 
separately to the cost of the loan.  There was a box Mr T could tick and sign to confirm he wanted 
the cover,  or which could be left blank if he didnt  want  it. The box was ticked and Mr T signed  
specifically for PPI, separately to signing  for the loan itself. So I think  that Santander made it clear 
Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out PPI and that they chose to take it  though  I can certainly 
understand why they might  not remember  this after so long.
Santander didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. It did have to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information they needed to decide if it was 
right for them.  
The credit  agreement set out the cost of the PPI in a clear way, before Mr and Mrs T ultimately 
confirmed whether  they wanted to buy it. So I think they would have understood how much it 
would cost.
Its possible  that Santander didnt  point out all the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr T 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
This means  Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Santander  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
Santander got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Santander didnt tell them,  that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically  offered to pay back  the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN29544054what I think the business needs to do
I think  that Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to Mr and Mrs T any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should also pay Mr and Mrs T 
8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I currently think that the PPI policy was not mis-sold   so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But I do think  Santander UK Plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont  plan to award 
any further compensation.
Please could  Mr and Mrs T and Santander send me any further comments or evidence to look at by 
21 March  2019. After that, Ill reconsider the complaint.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2954405