K820x#14complaint
Ms D says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Ms D took out the policy with a loan in 2004. The loan was secured against her home and 
she paid a monthly amount for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ds case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint. Ill explain why. 
Both Ms D and Halifax agree the policy  was sold during a meeting. Halifax  shouldve  taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that Ms D was made  aware  she had a choice in buying the PPI. 
Ms D says she wasnt aware she had PPI. Halifax says it would  have made it clear the policy 
was optional and it has sent us a copy of Ms Ds loan agreement. 
On the agreement there is a section about  the PPI. Here it asks if applicants  want Personal  
Loan Repayments Cover (which was Halifaxs name for PPI)  and there is an option  to 
select yes or no by signing in the relevant box. On Ms Ds form she has signed the Yes 
box. It looks like Lloyds  completed the form on Ms Ds behalf. This is likely to have  been  as a 
result of a discussion between Ms D and Lloydss representative. And Ms D wouldve had 
the opportunity  to review and query anything on the application she wasnt  sure about  before 
she signed it. 
So, I think its most likely Halifax made Ms D aware she had a choice about buying the 
policy. And she chose to take it. 
Ms D says Halifax  didnt recommend the policy to her. Halifax says it did recommend the 
policy. I dont think it matters whether Halifax recommended the policy or not because I think 
it was right for Ms D  based  on her circumstances. I say this because:
Ms D originally told us that she worked part time, but she later clarified this as she was 
working full time. So Ms D was eligible for the policy.
There was nothing  to stop Ms D claiming  the full benefit of the policy  if she needed too - 
such as any unusual  employment arrangements or pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ms D says she wouldnt have received any sick pay benefits from her employer and it 
doesnt look like she had any other means of making  her loan repayments. The PPI 
wouldve covered  her loan repayments for up to 12 months if she was made  redundant. 
Ref: DRN24721812And for up to 60 months if she was too unwell to work. So I think the policy  couldve 
been useful to her.
Ive noted Ms Ds comments  about  her finances at the time. But the cost of the policy was 
shown. So I think  Ms D wouldve  understood how much she would need to pay for it. And 
looking at the information I have about her circumstances,  although Ms D says she was 
using the loan to re-finance  her existing debt, I havent seen  anything  to suggest the PPI 
was unaffordable  for her. And she couldve cancelled it at any time, without further cost, if 
her situation changed  or she no longer wanted  to pay for it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Ms D, Halifax shouldve also taken steps to give 
her clear  information about the policy so she could  decide  if she wanted it. I dont know  what  
steps Halifax took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as clearly  as they 
shouldve been.  But I dont think clearer information  wouldve  changed Ms Ds decision. I think 
shed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons  I think the PPI was suitable  for her.  
I know Ms D feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And shes given me a lot of points to consider. All of which  I have 
thought about very carefully. But Ms D was taking on a significant  financial commitment, 
which was secured on her home, on her own. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments couldve been serious  for her.  And I think having the security  that her 
repayments couldve been made  if she was unable to work wouldve been important to 
Ms D. 
For the reasons  Ive explain above,  I dont think Ms D has lost out from anything  Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So these points dont change the outcome of my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2472181