K820x#14complaint
Mr C says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C bought the single premium  policy  when  he took out a loan in 1999.  The loan included 
an amount to pay for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says the loan and policy were sold during a meeting.  HSBC  cant tell us how the policy 
was sold, so without  any conflicting information, Ive considered this as a sale conducted 
during a meeting. 
However the policy was sold, HSBC shouldve taken reasonable steps  to make Mr C aware  
he had a choice  about buying the PPI. Mr C says he cant  recall  the sale of the policy.  
As I dont know exactly what Mr C was told when he bought  the policy,  Ive thought  about   
Mr Cs comments  alongside the limited documents HSBC has been  able to provide. Ive also 
considered what  I know  about the way HSBC sold these policies in general, to decide whats  
most likely to have happened. 
Although HSBC cant give me a copy of Mr Cs loan agreement, it has given me a copy  of 
the type of agreement it was using at the time.  This sets out the cost of the PPI under the 
heading Credit Protection Insurance Loan. I think its likely Mr C wouldve seen this. I also 
think Mr C wouldve seen that there was extra cost for the PPI (which was shown separately 
on the agreement). There would have also been a separate  declaration  Mr C wouldve 
signed for the PPI to be added to his loan. So I think, overall,  its more  likely than not that 
HSBC made  it clear this was an optional policy and Mr C chose to buy it  although I can 
understand why he doesnt remember this.
Mr C says HSBC didnt  recommend the policy to him. HSBC  says its looked at the sale as if 
it did. But I dont think it matters whether the policy was recommend or not because I think  it 
was right for Mr C based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
Mr C was eligible for cover under the policy. And there  doesnt  seem to be any 
reason why he wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim  such  as a 
previous health  issue  or any unusual working  patterns. 
Ref: DRN20952892Mr C says he wouldve received between six and 12 months sick pay from his 
employer. In the event of a successful claim, the PPI wouldve covered his loan 
repayments for 12 months if he became unemployed and potentially  to the end of the 
loan if he was unable  to work  due to sickness or an accident. This wouldve been in 
addition to any other means  he had to make his repayments.  
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs comments that his family couldve helped  out if he 
couldnt make his loan repayments. I dont doubt  that they wouldve wanted to help, 
but circumstances can change and I dont think their help couldve been guaranteed.  
Looking at the way the costs were explained on the sample loan agreement Ive been 
given, the costs associated with the policy were shown. So I think  Mr C wouldve 
been aware of these  costs. And given  his circumstances, I dont think  the policy  
wouldve been unaffordable to him. 
Mr C wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if HSBC thought about this when  it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr C. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought 
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him  or that 
better information about this wouldve stopped  him buying it.
Mr C says HSBC didnt  explain  anything  to him about the insurance. And I think  its possible 
HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover. But  as Ive mentioned above 
- Mr C doesnt  appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. So even if HSBC had 
given Mr C clearer information  about  the policy, I still think  he wouldve taken it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr C has lost out because  of anything HSBC  
mightve done wrong. 
I know Mr C feels  strongly  and will be disappointed by this outcome. Hes put time and effort  
into his complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised, including that 
he says he didnt claim on the policy when he was made unemployed. But this point doesnt  
change my decision for the reasons  Ive explained  above. 
But Mr C may be entitled  to make a retrospective  claim. If hed like to do this, he should  get 
in touch with HSBC to see if he can start a claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095289