K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  with Union Reiseversicherung AGs  decision to decline their 
claim. 
background
Mr and Mrs N had travel insurance with URV. In March this year, they were due to fly abroad 
for a holiday  however their flight from the UK was delayed. This had a knock-on effect  
because they then missed  their connecting  flight to their destination.  
Mr and Mrs N said they arrived at their destination  one day later than planned and so they 
would like URV to reimburse  them the associated costs for that nights unused  
accommodation. 
URV declined their claim. It said their flight from the UK was delayed for 40 minutes and so it 
didnt meet the policy terms.  It also highlighted that the policy  didnt offer cover for delays 
associated with connecting flights.  URV said it would not pay for the unused accommodation 
as this is not covered by their policy.    
Our investigator said that URV hadnt declined Mr and Mrs Ns claim unfairly.  She 
acknowledged that they were out of pocket for one nights stay but said that ultimately, URV 
hadnt made a mistake  in declining their claim.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept this. They made several arguments  in response to the 
investigators view. They  said they worked hard to save up and pay for this holiday and that 
they feel its unfair that theyre out of pocket. Ive summarised other relevant arguments 
below;
They were not made aware when they purchased  the policy that there was no cover 
for this eventuality.  Mr and Mrs N suggested that this is a significant limitation and 
that had they realised, then they would not have gone ahead with cover from URV;
They have described this as a single  entity  transaction for travel  meaning 
Mr and Mrs N purchased the flights in one transaction  and that the connecting flights 
were prearranged by the flight provider. They suggested that because there was no 
option to choose or adjust arrangements with the connecting carrier airline, they 
were effectively  unable  to limit their risk;
The insurer should have asked more about their planned journey from the outset  
effectively suggesting that had it done  so, it would have realised this product was not 
suitable as it provided  no cover  for connecting  flight problems. 
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the key arguments  Mr and Mrs N have made in relation  to this complaint and I 
do sympathise with their situation, but URV has not done anything wrong here and so Im 
Ref: DRN23362692unable to uphold  their complaint. My reasons for doing so are largely  similar to those  already 
explained by our investigator. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ns response to those arguments, 
but it still doesnt change the facts surrounding  their complaint and that there is simply no 
scope within  their policy to provide cover for the specific  circumstances of their complaint.
The key test Ive applied here is whether URV has unfairly declined  their claim for the 
unused accommodation  costs. Its said the policy doesnt offer cover for this type of issue  
and Im satisfied thats the case here.  Mr and Mrs N have suggested theres scope to cover 
their claim under  the policys curtailment section, but I disagree. 
The reason  I say that is because curtailment can only be considered  had they abandoned  
their trip altogether owning to the considerable delays they experienced. But this didnt 
happen because  Mr and Mrs N, although delayed by almost a whole  day, continued to wait 
for their connecting flight. And although  they arrived  at their destination a day later than 
planned, they continued their holiday as planned. So, there was no curtailment. 
Mr and Mrs N suggested URV should  have asked  them more questions around  how they 
intended to get to their destination.  They said this because they later realised there was no 
cover for delayed connecting  flights,  in the same way theres provision of cover  for delayed 
flights from the international departure point  the UK. To be clear,  the relevant part of the 
policy says;
if your travel plans  are disrupted, we will pay up to £2,000 for your proportion of prepaid 
accommodation if after 24 hours of delay at the international departure point of your 
outbound journey from the United Kingdom you abandon your trip and;
No cover is provided under this section for connecting flights once  you have left your 
international departure point on either your outbound or return journey
This effectively means that had Mr and Mrs Ns flight from the UK been delayed  for more 
than 24 hours, their policy would have  paid out for the delays. But I should say even if this 
were the case,  it still would not have paid anything towards their consequential loss for 
unused accommodation  because their holiday was not curtailed. In any event, their flight  
from the UK was only delayed 40 minutes  and so URV has not made an error  by not paying 
them anything. 
In terms of whether  URV should  have  asked more questions about their planned trip, Im not 
persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ns arguments here either. I say that because  this was a non-
advised sale of insurance through an aggregator website  so it wasnt  sold by URV. 
Because this was a non-advised sale its Mr and Mrs Ns responsibility to ensure the policy  is 
suitable for their specific needs. I know Mr and Mrs N said they were  unaware URV had sent 
them the full policy terms initially.  But I also note they didnt attempt to reach  out to URV  to 
request a copy either  which given what Ive just explained, I consider  would  have been  a 
reasonable thing to do.  
However, this was not the case and URV had sent Mr and Mrs N all the necessary 
information they needed, including the full policy terms, shortly after theyd purchased  the 
policy. And so, Id have  expected Mr and Mrs N to have made sure this policy was suitable. 
Its for these reasons  I dont agree that URV has done anything wrong by declining 
Mr and Mrs Ns claim  and so I make  no recommendation here.
Ref: DRN23362693my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2336269