K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that a sofa bed Mrs L bought on a four year fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) trading as Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited was mis sold to them. They would like to return the sofa bed, have a refund of 
payments made to date, and cancel their agreement.
background
Mrs L says in July 2015  she bought a sofa bed with a ten year guarantee. In April 2018 she 
says a fault developed  with the bed mechanism so she contacted the retailer to fix this under 
guarantee.
At that point Mrs L says she found out she was outside the guarantee period as the sofa bed 
mechanism was only covered for two years. She says she and her husband were assured 
by the salesman at the time that the ten year guarantee covered the sofa and the bed 
mechanism, the only exclusion was the mattress  and leather upholstery so she took out 
extra insurance to cover this.
She said she hasnt been  given any information  to show the sofa bed mechanism is only 
covered for two years.  And her ten year guarantee  doesnt  state this.
She said although the retailer  said the sofa bed could be repaired at a cost of £120 they 
werent willing to pay this as they believed it wasnt their responsibility. The retailer  told them  
it wouldnt guarantee the repair for the remainder of the time left on their ten year guarantee. 
They said had the salesman told them the mechanism was only covered for two years they 
wouldnt have bought it. They feel the sofa bed was mis-sold.
They said they put in a Section 75 claim under the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 to get a refund 
for the cost of the bed. They would  also like payments  made to date refunded.
BPF said that the sofa bed mechanism  was only covered for two not ten years.  The retailer  
had offered to repair the mechanism for free. As a gesture of goodwill BPF credited 
Mr and Mrs Ls account with £120  for the cost of the new mechanism.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found it likely that if Mrs L had known that 
the bed mechanism was only covered for two years she would have taken out additional 
cover since  she had taken  out separate cover  for the upholstery not covered by the 
guarantee.
However he felt that, as the retailer had offered to repair the bed mechanism for free and as 
BPF had transferred  the £120 cost of the new bed mechanism to Mrs L that this was a fair 
solution. When the repairs are completed  Mrs L could then take out further insurance cover 
is she wished He felt this was fair and put Mrs L back in the position  at the time of purchase.  
BPF accepted this view but Mrs L didnt. She said the salesman told her the bed mechanism 
was the frame of the bed and so was covered and she understood from the investigators  
view that he agreed with this. She says if she had been told the bed mechanism wasnt  
covered she wouldnt  have bought the sofa bed. She wanted to know  if the retailer had given 
any proof that the bed mechanism is only covered for two years.  She said the repair had 
already been offered before she contacted our service but she wasnt happy with that
Ref: DRN22201312Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He clarified that he felt it 
was reasonable  that the bed mechanism would be covered as part of the frame. But pointed 
out that BPF had evidence from an independent company to say this wasnt the case.  On 
balance he felt there was no evidence the mechanism was covered at all by the warranty  
which isnt backed  by insurance. He said as this was the case  he could  only consider a claim 
about how the sofa was sold.
Mrs L didnt accept this view; she still felt the sofa bed had been mis-sold to her. 
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mrs L had a problem with the mechanism on her sofa 
bed some two years  after she bought it.
The issue  seems to be that Mrs L understood that the bed mechanism was covered for ten 
years under the insurance that came with the sofa bed.
I cant be sure what Mrs L was told when she bought the sofa bed as there is no record  of 
the sale. But Mrs L has told us that when she realised that the mattress and upholstery 
werent covered  under  guarantee she took out additional insurance. And Mrs L has given us 
evidence to prove this.  So I think its likely that Mrs L wanted to ensure she had full cover  for 
the sofa bed. 
However I have seen the insurance document which clearly  states the frame and frame  
springs of your new sofa are covered for 10 years  and the stitching and electrical parts are 
covered for 2 years. No mention is made of the sofa bed mechanism itself. 
I asked for the insurance document in full to consider all the terms. At that point it became 
clear that the one page document Mrs L has isnt an insurance policy but a guarantee with 
no other supporting  documentation. On the basis  of what  is written on the guarantee I would 
have to conclude  that the sofa bed mechanism  isnt covered at all as it isnt specifically 
mentioned.
In addition BPF says it has checked with an independent company who have said the sofa 
bed mechanism wouldnt form part of the frame and therefore wouldnt be covered for 
10 years.
Mrs L has said she put in a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. I havent 
seen any evidence of this and I cant see that BPF has specifically replied to this point. 
However there are various criteria for a Section 75 claim to be considered.  One of which is 
that there  would need to be some breach of contract or mis-representation. But I dont feel I 
have sufficient evidence  to say that the sofa bed was mis-represented or mis-sold to Mrs L. 
In order to put this right I understand  that the retailer has offered to repair  the sofa bed for 
free. And BPF have  already given Mrs L the money  to cover the cost of the replacement 
mechanism.  So the sofa bed will be repaired at no cost to Mrs L. 
I think this is a reasonable solution  and should  put Mrs L back  in the positon she was when 
she bought the sofa bed. And as our investigator suggested Mrs L then could consider if she 
Ref: DRN22201313is able to take out other insurance  in the event  she has further  problems with the bed 
mechanism.
I appreciate this isnt what Mrs L wanted. But I dont feel its fair to allow  Mrs L to return the 
sofa bed and cancel her agreement as in my view the guarantee that came  with the sofa bed  
doesnt cover the mechanism at all. 
Even if Mrs L understood she had insurance  to cover any problems with the bed mechanism 
I think a repair, at no cost, is reasonable in this case. And had Mrs Ls guarantee covered 
the bed mechanism at the time she had a problem with it a repair would have been the most 
likely solution.
Finally I dont feel I can reasonably agree to refund the payments Mrs L has made  to date as 
she has had use of the sofa bed. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220131