K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  Barclays Bank  UK PLC didnt stop sending letters to her address despite 
being asked not to. 
Miss O also complains that Barclays has started  to charge her for an overdraft that had 
previously been  free. Miss O has raised  concerns  that Barclays didnt give her fair warning 
that it was going to start charging interest as well as the ongoing cost of repaying the 
balance. 
background
Miss O originally  opened a Higher  Education account in 2005 and had previously had a 
student account. Miss Os Higher Education overdraft  didnt incur  any interest or charges. 
The interest and charge  free period shouldve ended  around three years later but because of 
an error by Barclays Miss O continued to remain on this account until 2018. 
Miss O has told us that because she was having  building work done at her property and was 
concerned about  the security of her information she asked Barclays to stop sending post to 
her home address. 
In February 2018  Barclays wrote  to Miss O and explained that her Higher Education  account  
was going to switch over to a normal current account from April 2018 which would incur 
interest and charges for being overdrawn.  Miss O says she didnt receive that letter. 
In March 2018 Miss O has said she visited her local branch and asked for correspondence 
to be sent to her again. 
In June 2018 Miss O complained to Barclays after she noticed a charge  of £51.75 had been  
applied to her current  account. Miss O complained  that she didnt  receive Barclays  letter  in 
February 2018 giving notice  of the account changes.  
Miss O offered  to pay Barclays  £250  a month on an interest free basis but it said any 
arrangement of that nature would  be reflected  on her credit file. Miss O referred  her 
complaint to this service.  An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt feel 
Barclays had made  a mistake. 
The investigator said Barclays had no record of Miss O asking for post to her home to be 
stopped or for it to begin again. The investigator  also said that Barclays was entitled  to start 
charging for the overdraft and thought the offer to refund the first months  interest was fair. 
Miss O has told us that shes experiencing financial difficulties and the investigator 
recommended that she discuss  options  with Barclays.
Miss O didnt  agree with the investigators findings  and asked for her complaint to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25741012Im going  to begin by looking at whether Barclays ever stopped writing to Miss O at her 
address. Miss O says Barclays agreed to stop writing to her while building  work was being 
done at her house. But Barclays  says it wouldnt agree to a request  of that nature because it 
has to contact customers about their accounts. Barclays also says it has no record  of any 
request to put a gone away marker on Miss Os account or later remove it. Barclays  has 
supplied evidence of the markers on Miss Os account and theres  nothing  to show  it ever 
stopped sending correspondence  to her. Im sorry to disappoint Miss O but I havent found 
Barclays made an error by writing  to her. 
From what  Ive seen the focus of this case is the charges Barclays applied from April 2018 
onwards. I know Miss O says she didnt  receive Barclays  letter dated 8 February  2018  but 
Ive seen a copy  and its correctly addressed. Looking at the available  evidence Im satisfied 
Barclays wrote to Miss O in February 2018  to tell her it was going to start charging for her 
overdraft in the coming months. 
In addition, Barclays has provided systems evidence to show  the letter it sent Miss O was 
also added  to her online  banking facility. Miss Os told us she didnt read the letter using  her 
online facility. But I think Barclays could reasonably have expected Miss O to have read 
either of the two versions of the letter it sent in February 2018  and wouldve  been aware of 
the upcoming changes. I havent found anything to show Barclays made an error when it 
wrote to Miss O in February 2018.
I think its reasonable to note that Barclays is allowed to charge for the services  it provides, 
including an overdraft  facility. The Higher  Education account terms and conditions  are 
available on Barclays website and are updated  from time to time. The most recent version 
says Barclays will write to a customer if its moving them  from one type of account  to another 
if theyre no longer  eligible  for their existing account. From what Ive seen Ive found Barclays  
was allowed to change  the type of account  Miss O had by writing  to her first. And as Ive 
explained above, Im satisfied  Barclays took that step in February 2018.
Miss O says Barclays  refusal to agree an interest free repayment period means shes  been 
unable to repay the overdraft. Whilst I accept paying interest and charges may mean it takes 
longer to repay the outstanding balance, theres no barrier to Miss O repaying the overdraft 
by making regular payments. 
Miss Os told us shes concerned about the additional costs she now has to pay and is 
worried about financial difficulties. In a recent email Miss O says she hasnt been made 
aware of all her borrowing options or why Barclays needed to complete a credit check  before 
agreeing any payment  arrangement or loan. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss O but from what Ive seen Barclays  is willing  to work with her if 
shes experiencing financial difficulties. Miss O should  contact  Barclays directly to discuss  
her options  and what help it can give her going  forward. But I havent found anything to show 
Miss Os been treated  unfairly to date. 
Ive carefully considered  all the information Miss O and Barclays have provided when 
considering the outcome of this complaint. Having done so, Im not persuaded that Barclays 
applied a gone away marker to Miss Os account. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied 
Barclays was entitled to change the type of account Miss O held by writing to her in 
February 2018 and that the fees and interest  its charged since  are fair. Barclays agreed  to 
waive the first months interest which I think was reasonable. As I havent found  any 
Ref: DRN25741013evidence of a mistake by Barclays  Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve this 
complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2574101