K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Ms T says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Ms T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this because  
Barclays has given us a copy  of the credit  card application and there  is a section to 
select PPI. The PPI has been  selected and Ms T has signed the application so I think  
this reflected what she wanted.  And if she didnt want the PPI she could have questioned 
this at the time.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Ms T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms T because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms T about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Ms T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms T has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms T.
Ref: DRN27807862But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms T any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2780786