K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about 19 instalment loans that she took out with Gain  Credit  LLC, trading as 
Lending Stream, (LS).  She said, in summary, that LS shouldnt  have given her the loans as 
they were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service  on Ms Ss behalf by a claims 
management company.  But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Ms S.
 
background
Ms S took out 19 instalment loans with LS between March 2014 and November 2016. The 
loans were all repayable by six monthly instalments. Loans 1 to 16 have been repaid. 
Loans 17 to 19 havent been repaid  and Loan  18 has been  transferred to a third party,  (T).  
A summary  of the loans  is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 15/3/14 17/8/14 £200
2. 19/4/14 17/8/14 £300
3. 15/5/14 17/8/14 £300
4. 1/6/14 17/8/14 £300
5. 9/8/14 17/8/14 £420
6. 5/6/15 30/11/15 £300
7. 10/6/15 30/11/15 £200
8. 18/6/15 31/12/15 £300
9. 16/7/15 31/12/15 £110
10. 4/8/15 29/1/16 £100
11. 4/11/15 29/4/16 £680
12. 3/12/15 19/5/16 £100
13. 7/1/16 30/6/16 £240
14. 10/3/16 31/8/16 £400
15. 2/4/16 30/9/16 £190
16. 2/5/16 31/10/16 £170
17. 1/7/16 Unpaid £500
18. 2/9/16 Unpaid £300
19. 4/11/16 Unpaid £400
LS said that it had carried out proper and proportionate affordability checks at the time that 
each loan was approved.  It had asked Ms S for her income and expenditure and from 
Loan 6 it had carried out credit file checks.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms Ss complaint should be upheld in part. He concluded  
that Loans 4 and 5 and 9 onwards shouldnt have been given  to Ms S.
LS hasnt provided a response  to the adjudicators view. So the complaint has been  passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN27955992complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When LS first lent to Ms S the regulator  was the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT) and relevant 
guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 onwards 
the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations  and 
guidance included  its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The ILG and CONC contained  
similar guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
LS needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Ms S could  repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that LS should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LS was required to establish  whether 
Ms S could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG and later CONC defines sustainable  as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN27955993There were two chains of lending. One started  at Loan 1 and the other because of a 
significant gap between Loans 5 and 6 started at Loan 6. So it was reasonable for LS to treat 
Ms S as a new customer at Loan  6 and base its checks accordingly.
As I mentioned above, each of Ms Ss loans  was repayable over a six month period. So the 
amounts that Ms S needed to repay each time were smaller than if shed taken a normal  
payday loan. But of course she was committing to making those repayments over a far 
longer period. And at times Ms S had a number of loans outstanding together.  So Ive had to 
consider the total amount  that Ms S needed to repay to LS each month.
 
LS did a number  of checks before  it lent to Ms S. It asked her for details of her monthly 
income and expenditure. Ms Ss declared income  before Loans 1 to 5 was £2,500 and from 
Loan 6 it was £2,014.  From Loan  6 LS said that it had revised  Ms Ss declared  expenditure 
upwards to reflect statistical expenditure figures.
LS also checked  Ms Ss credit file before agreeing to the loans from Loan 6. But it hasnt 
provided us with the results of its credit  checks.  
Weve received a credit  report  from Ms S. Ms Ss credit report showed  a default around  a 
year before Loan  1 and a county court judgement  around ten months before Loan 1. The 
report also showed other short term loans. I shall refer to the short term loans shown in 
Ms Ss credit  report below and the entries shown in it before Loan  6.
It doesnt appear that LS carried  out a check on Ms Ss credit  file before Loans 1 to 5. But 
even if it had, Im aware that when a lender carries out a credit search, the information  it 
sees doesnt usually  provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and 
it isnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers  credit  
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware that not all payday  and 
short term lenders  report to the same credit reference agencies.  So, Ms Ss defaulted 
account and other short  term loans may not have been identified  by a credit check. 
Ms S needed to make total monthly loan repayments of around  £108 to £384  to LS for 
Loans 1 to 3. I dont  think the total repayment  amounts were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Ms S financial  difficulty. And I dont  think at that stage of its relationship 
with Ms S that LS had any reason to doubt  the information shed provided. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for LS to rely on Ms Ss declared  disposable income of around  £1,430  to 
£1,490. 
Given Ms Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the time, 
and her history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for LS to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show Loans  1 to 3 were 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Ms S provided before Loans 1 to 3 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS was wrong to give Loans  1 to 3 to Ms S. 
Ms S took out Loan 4 whilst she was still repaying  Loans 1, 2 and 3. This meant  that shed 
be repaying total monthly loan repayments  of around £492 for at least  another four months. 
Again I dont think at that stage of its relationship with Ms S that LS had any reason  to doubt 
the information shed provided, and I dont think it was unreasonable  for LS to rely on Ms Ss 
Ref: DRN27955994declared disposable income of £1,650. But the monthly loan repayments were a significant 
proportion of Ms Ss disposable income  and I think LS should have been  concerned  that 
Ms S would  be holding  four loans with it. So I think LS should  have  supplemented  the 
information it held by asking Ms S some  more detailed  questions,  such as whether she was 
borrowing from other short term lenders at the same time. Had it done  so, its likely that LS 
wouldve learnt that Ms S had one other  outstanding short term loan of £590 repayable at 
the same  time as Loans  1 to 4. Ive seen  this on Ms Ss bank statement. I think if LS had 
made proportionate  checks, it would have been  clear to it that Ms S was facing significant  
problems managing her  money and unlikely to be able to repay in a sustainable manner. So 
I dont think LS should have given Ms S loan 4.
Loan 5 was the highest loan amount Ms S had taken from LS. And Ms S took out Loan  5 
whilst she was still repaying  Loans  1, 2, 3 and 4 to LS. I think  LS ought reasonably to have 
suspected that Ms S was likely having trouble managing her money and that her 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. So I dont  think  it was reasonable for LS to 
decide it was likely  that Ms S would be able to repay  Loan 5 in a sustainable manner and I 
think that Loan 5 was unfairly given to Ms S.
I note that there was a gap of almost  ten months between Ms S repaying  Loan 5 and asking 
to borrow again.  I think the gap between  Loans 5 and 6 was sufficient for LS to look at 
Ms Ss application for Loan 6 afresh  and effectively treat her as a new customer.
Ive seen Ms Ss credit report.  I note that there was a county court judgement  (CCJ)  almost 
seven months prior to Loan  6 with £1,782 owing on the judgement.  
LSs final response letter  refers to a credit check being carried out before Loans 6 to 13. It 
hasnt provided  the results of those checks to us. But LS did say that a creditworthiness  
check was completed and the third party credit reference agency confirmed a rating  which 
was satisfactory for the loan obligation.  From that, I dont think I can safely  say that LS was 
aware of the CCJ.
Ms S needed to make total monthly loan repayments of around  £134 to £329  to LS for 
Loans 6 to 8. I dont  think the total repayment  amounts were so large that its obvious they 
wouldve caused Ms S financial  difficulty. And I dont  think at that stage of its relationship 
with Ms S that LS had any reason to doubt  the information shed provided. 
Given Ms Ss repayment amounts, what was apparent about  her circumstances at the time, 
and her history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for LS to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed  to show Loans  6 to 8 were 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Ms S provided before Loans 6 to 8 or the 
information LS shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think LS was wrong to give Loans  6 to 8 to Ms S. 
Ms S took out Loan 9 whilst she was still repaying  Loans 6, 7 and 8. This meant  that shed 
be repaying total monthly loan repayments  of around £363 for at least  another four months. 
Again I dont think at that stage of its relationship with Ms S that LS had any reason  to doubt 
the information shed provided, and I dont think it was unreasonable  for LS to rely on Ms Ss 
declared disposable income.  But the monthly  loan repayments were a significant proportion 
of Ms Ss disposable  income and I think  LS should have been concerned that Ms S would  be 
holding four loans with it. So I think LS should have supplemented the information it held by 
Ref: DRN27955995asking Ms S some more detailed questions, such as whether she was borrowing  from other  
short term lenders  at the same time. Had it done so, its likely  that LS wouldve learnt that 
Ms S had two other outstanding short term loans repayable at the same  time as Loan 9. Ive 
seen these on Ms Ss bank statements and credit report. I think  if LS had made 
proportionate checks, it would have  been clear to it that Ms S was facing significant 
problems managing her money and unlikely to be able to repay in a sustainable manner. So 
I dont think LS should have given Ms S loan 9.
Ms S took out Loan 10 whilst she was still repaying  Loans 6 to 9 to LS. I think  LS ought 
reasonably to have  suspected that Ms S was likely having trouble managing her money and 
that her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. So I dont think it was reasonable for 
LS to decide it was likely that Ms S would be able to repay Loan 10 in a sustainable manner 
and I think that Loan  10 was unfairly given to Ms S.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of LSs lending history with Ms S, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  the lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LS should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ss case, I think  that this point was reached by 
Loan 11. I say this because:
Ms S had taken  out a loan of £300  with LS five months earlier, then four more  loans 
with it, and she was now asking  it for a loan of £680.  All the loans  were  still 
outstanding. 
I think the fact that Ms S still had five outstanding loans with it when she borrowed 
Loan 11 should have put LS on notice that Ms S might be experiencing significant 
financial pressures. And I think this indicated that Ms S was likely to be dependent on 
this type of borrowing.
By Loan  11, Ms S had been  borrowing from LS for around five months  and Loan  11 
was her sixth loan in that time.
I can see that as LS didnt stop lending  at this point, Ms S went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further year. I think that Ms S lost out because LS continued to provide borrowing 
from Loan 11 onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ss indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Ms S had been  taking out short term loans  was likely to have 
had negative implications on Ms Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
The fact that most  of the loans were  repaid does not mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Ms S undue difficulty. 
 
I also think that when  a consumer borrows numerous loans over a long period of time, its 
most likely that the loans  arent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As LS will know, the FCA made  it clear  in a recent letter to CEOs of high cost 
Ref: DRN27955996lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So Im upholding  this complaint in part and LS should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what LS needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms S paid on Loans 4, 5 and 9 to 16;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
refund  all the interest and charges that Ms S has paid on Loans  17 to 19, and pay 
8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of  
settlement; 
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loans 17 and 19;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loans 17 
and 19 and pay any balance to Ms S;  
as the balance on Loan  18 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),  LS should also 
refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included in the outstanding balance  
on Loan 18 (since  T will expect to collect this money from Ms S). As Loan 18 has 
been transferred  to T, pay these refunds to Ms S in full and no deductions should  be 
made by LS. But, if LS buys  back Loan 18 from T within 21 days  of Ms Ss 
acceptance of my decision, it might apply these refunds  and the refunds referred to 
above to reduce any capital outstanding  on Loan 18, and pay any balance to Ms S;
    
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Ss credit file with regard to 
Loans 4, 5, 9 and 10;
remove any information  about  Loans 11 to 16 from Ms Ss credit  file;
remove any information  about  Loans 17 and 19 once  they have been  repaid.
remove any information  about  Loan 18 once  it has been repaid (if LS buys  it back). If 
Loan 18 has to remain with T, then LS is to assist Ms S, so far as it is able, to correct 
her credit  file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Ms S a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If LS intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Gain Credit  LLC, trading as Lending Stream, to pay Ms S compensation  and take the 
following steps:-.
1.Refund all interest  and charges Ms S paid on Loans 4, 5 and 9 to 16;
Ref: DRN279559972.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
3.Refund all the interest  and charges  that Ms S has paid on Loans  17 to 19, and 
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of  settlement;  
4.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loans 17 and 19;
5.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans  
17 and 19 and pay any balance  to Ms S;  
6.As the balance on Loan 18 has been  transferred to a third party  (T), LS should 
also refund any unpaid interest and charges that are included  in the outstanding 
balance on Loan 18 (since T will expect to collect this money  from Ms S). As 
Loan 18 has been transferred to T, pay these  refunds to Ms S in full and no 
deductions should be made  by LS. But, if LS buys back  Loan  18 from T within  21 
days of Ms Ss acceptance of my decision, it might  apply these refunds and the 
refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 18, and pay 
any balance to Ms S;
    
7.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Ss credit  file with regard to 
      Loans 4, 5, 9 and 10;
8.Remove any information about Loans 11 to 16 from Ms Ss credit  file;
9.Remove any information about Loans 17 and 19 once they have  been  repaid.
10.Remove any information about Loan 18 once it has been repaid (if LS buys  it 
back). If Loan 18 has to remain with T, then LS is to assist Ms S, so far as it is 
able, to correct her credit  file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Ms S a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one. If LS intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2795599