K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr A say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms A and Mr A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994. Ms A and Mr A paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr A only, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A and Mr A disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms A and Mr As case. 
Ive decided that Ms A and Mr As PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The mortgage application had a section for PPI, which only recommended  that 
Ms A and Mr A thought  about it. It briefly explained  what PPI was for, and offered 
Ms A and Mr A more details if theyd like. It then asked if they wanted PPI or not, and asked 
what benefit theyd  need if they did want it. The benefit that they needed was filled in, and 
Ms A and Mr A signed the application.  They then submitted a separate  application 
specifically for PPI, which set out the policys costs  as distinct  from the cost of the mortgage, 
rather than something that was necessarily included. They set out that they wanted it to 
cover Mr A only,  and he signed  the PPI application. Mr A pointed out that he was off work in 
2006, but didnt claim.  But it looks like thats because they cancelled  the policy in 2000. 
Overall, I think that Halifax made  Ms A and Mr A aware they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  even  if, understandably,  they no longer 
remember doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr A, so it had to check it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr A doesnt  
seem to have been affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And he 
doesnt appear to have  had any other  protection in case he was off sick or lost his job. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that Mr A was the main earner at the time of sale, and if 
Ms A and Mr A fell behind on their mortgage  payments they risked  losing their home. So 
I think the policy couldve really been  useful for them in protecting  their home.
The cost of the policy was shown on the PPI application, alongside what it would  pay out 
each month  in a claim. So I think Ms A and Mr A wouldve understood how much they would 
need to pay for PPI.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mr A doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN22891922my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms A and Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2289192