K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund  a cash withdrawal, made  with his debit 
card, which he says he didnt make  or authorise. He says he didnt  receive the card or 
personal identification number (PIN)  after opening his account.
background
Mr B opened  a new bank  account and a savings account with Lloyds in September 2017. 
When he opened the account he paid £850  into it and then transferred £550 to the savings 
account. He says that Lloyds told him his card and PIN would be received within  five to 
seven days. Five days after opening  the account,  £300 was withdrawn in cash  from it.
Lloyds says that the cash withdrawal was made using Mr Bs card and correct PIN but Mr B 
says that he didnt receive these. He thinks they were intercepted in the post but Lloyds has 
declined to refund the money.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. She wasnt able to say how a 
third party could have  gained access to both the card and PIN, as they had been sent on 
separate days. She also thought it unusual that the card had been used for a balance 
enquiry some three  hours before the cash was withdrawn so she didnt think  Lloyds could  be 
held liable  for the disputed transaction.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought that CCTV might help to see who made the cash  withdrawal 
and he wasnt convinced  that the card and PIN had been sent on different days.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator previously  set out and for much the same reasons.
relevant considerations
The disputed transaction was made in September 2017. The regulations relevant to these 
are the Payment Service Regulations  2009.  In short, the regulations say that Lloyds can hold 
Mr B liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence  suggests that he most likely made or 
authorised it himself. Mr B says he didnt make the cash withdrawal of £300  and is seeking  a 
refund of that amount.  So my primary concern is to come to a view about whether  or I not I 
think Mr B authorised the cash withdrawal.
Im satisfied from the evidence that Lloyds has provided that whoever made the cash 
withdrawal had both the genuine card and PIN. There were no incorrect  PIN attempts. I say 
this because Lloyds  has provided evidence to show that the withdrawal was made and 
authenticated at a cash machine (ATM) where the genuine  chip in the card was read and the 
correct PIN was entered.
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed transaction  was 
made using  the genuine  card and PIN. These are:
Ref: DRN25529322Mr B received the card and PIN and used them himself
Someone with Mr Bs authority used the card and PIN to withdraw the cash
Someone was able to intercept Mr Bs card and PIN and used them to withdraw the 
cash, without  his authority or consent.
I cant know for sure what happened  in this case so I must make my decision based  on the 
balance of the evidence.
Lloyds has shown that it sent the card and PIN, for the new account,  to Mr Bs correct 
address on different days. The PIN was issued on 21 September 2017. The card was sent 
by disguised mail the following day. I appreciate that Mr B says that the evidence  only shows 
that the PIN was issued on 21 September and not that it was dispatched that day. But given 
that it was issued in the early hours of the morning (around 12.30am)  I think  it more  likely 
than not that it was also sent out that day.
Mr B says that his post was delivered  to a locked mailbox to which only he, and his flatmate, 
had a key. So Im satisfied that Mr Bs mail wasnt left unattended and there  wasnt  a chance  
that a third party could take it once it had been  delivered.
I appreciate that cards  and other security details can get intercepted  in the post. If this had 
happened, it would suggest  that both card and PIN would  have  been  intercepted  by an 
unknown third party from different post deliveries on or before 25 September as the card 
was first used later that day.
I have looked  at the card usage record provided  by Lloyds. This shows that the card was first 
used on 25 September  2017 to make a balance enquiry at just after 2pm. Two more  balance 
enquiries were made that afternoon, one 20 minutes or so later and another two and a half 
hours later. Following  the third balance enquiry, the £300 was withdrawn. 
If an unknown third party had intercepted  Mr Bs card and PIN, then I wouldnt have 
expected there to be a gap of almost  three  hours from when  the card was first used to check  
the balance, until the cash was taken.  I wouldve expected the cash  to be taken at the 
earliest opportunity  if someone was trying  to opportunistically benefit from having obtained 
Mr Bs card and PIN.
Considering all of this, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs card and PIN were intercepted. No 
attempt was made to use the card again after it had been cancelled so I consider whoever 
had been using it was likely to be aware that it had been cancelled. In the circumstances,  I 
think the most likely  explanation  is that Mr B authorised the withdrawals,  either making them  
himself or allowing someone else to do so.
Mr B says that CCTV would show that it wasnt him that made the withdrawal. Lloyds hasnt 
provided CCTV so I cant consider this. But CCTV wouldnt have helped in determining if the 
withdrawals were made using the card and PIN by someone else with Mr Bs authority.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refuse a refund 
because, overall,  I think its more  likely  than not that Mr B made  or authorised the transaction  
that he disputes.
Ref: DRN25529323my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2552932