K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained about Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltds handling of his car insurance policy.
background
In February 2016,  Mr D took out car insurance online through Be Wiser who were  acting  as 
broker. At the time,  Mr D held a provisional  licence and the policy he took out was 
specifically for young provisional licence holders. The policy was underwritten by another  
company. The premium was just under  £5,000.
In early March 2016, Mr D was involved in an accident with another  vehicle and his car 
suffered damage. Both drivers said the other  was at fault and the underwriter started 
investigating.
In August  2016,  Mr D passed his driving  test and obtained a full licence. After  Mr D told 
Be Wiser hed passed his test, they asked him to pay an additional premium  of 
approximately £5,500. Mr D wasnt happy  as he felt the additional premium  was too high, so 
he didnt pay it. Be Wiser then took steps  to recover the outstanding premium.  Mr D also felt 
the investigation into the accident to decide  who was at fault was taking too long, so he 
complained to both Be Wiser  and the underwriter. Be Wiser said that the underwriter was 
responsible for the additional  premium  and for the investigation into the accident to establish 
whose fault it was.
As Mr D was unhappy with Be Wiser,  he brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that the investigation into who was at fault for 
the accident was the responsibility  of the underwriter and not Be Wiser. She also said that 
Mr D passing his driving test and obtaining a full licence within  the policy  year was highly 
probable, so Be Wiser should have told Mr D when he took out the policy that there  would be 
a substantial increase  in his premium when he passed his test. She said for that reason  
Be Wiser shouldnt have  increased the premium. She also said Be Wiser shouldnt  pursue  
Mr D for the outstanding  additional premium and they should  pay him £200  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  they had caused him.
Be Wiser didnt agree with the adjudicator. They said the correct respondent to Mr Ds 
complaint was the underwriter. The complaint was therefore passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 14 December 2018.   I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr D has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what I consider  to be the key 
issues. My role is to decide  if Be Wiser  have acted in a fair and reasonable way.
the investigation into the accident and the increase  in premium
The investigation into the accident and the decision on whose fault it was is the 
responsibility of the underwriter, not Be Wiser. Similarly,  the underwriter is 
Ref: DRN26447172responsible for the increased premium.  Mr D has also complained  to the underwriter,  
so I've addressed these points in that decision.
should Mr D have been told about the possible future increase in his premium?
Mr Ds policy  was specifically aimed at young drivers on a provisional licence. And as 
its usual in the insurance industry for premiums to increase substantially once a 
provisional licence  holder  passes their test, I think Be Wiser would have  known that it 
was possible Mr D would pass his test during  the policy year.  Therefore, I think Be 
Wiser should  have told Mr D before he bought  his policy that if he passed  his test 
during the policy  year,  his premium would increase substantially. And while  I accept 
that Be Wiser are unlikely  to have known at that moment in time exactly by how 
much his premium would have increased, I think they knew that it would  increase  
substantially. 
I think theres a widely held misconception among provisional licence holders that on 
passing their test their premiums are likely to reduce, given  they are then qualified  to 
drive on their own. Thats not the case,  as most insurers  I have  come  across think 
newly qualified drivers are a higher risk, given they are no longer required to drive 
under the supervision of an experienced driver. 
So I think Be Wiser  should  have told Mr D that on passing his test his premium  was 
likely to increase substantially. That way Mr D could have made an informed  decision  
as to whether  or not he would go ahead with this policy. But I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr D was told that, which I think is unfair. Be Wiser  should  therefore 
not ask Mr D to pay the increased premium. And if Be Wiser have given any 
information to any of the credit reference agencies that has resulted  in an adverse  
record against Mr D, they should correct that. 
Im therefore  intending to require Be Wiser to pay Mr D £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he has experienced.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr D didnt  comment on my provisional  
decision. But Be Wiser  said the following:
The policy was not specifically for "young provisional licence  holders". It was sold 
under the brand "Younger  But Wiser"  aimed  at customers age, regardless of the 
type of licence they held.  
They couldnt have  known Mr D would pass his test during the policy year.
They couldnt have  known the premium  would increase substantially in the event 
Mr D passed his test and got a full licence. 
Its unfair to put the onus on Be Wiser to advise Mr D the premium could increase 
when he passed  his test. Its common knowledge, and widely  publicised,  that 
premiums do increase when a full licence is obtained. In fact, Be Wiser  published an 
article about this. 
Its likely  they would  have told Mr D that the premium would increase as they have a 
phone script to that effect. 
They havent seen  evidence to suggest  that Mr D obtained a more  competitive quote 
elsewhere at either the point of sale or when passing his test. 
Mr D didnt have to accept the additional premium  when  the mid-term adjustment  
was made. 
Ref: DRN26447173my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Be Wisers comments, as follows:
Be Wiser  said that the policy was not specifically for "young provisional licence 
holders", it was sold under the brand  "Younger  But Wiser " aimed  at customers age, 
regardless of the type of licence they held. I dont think this distinction matters 
because Be Wiser were aware before Mr D took out the policy  that he held a 
provisional licence,  which should have triggered them telling him the premium  was 
likely to increase in the event  he passed  his test.
Be Wiser  said that they couldnt  have known Mr D was going  to pass  his test within 
the policy year. While I accept they couldnt have  known that, I think  Be Wiser would 
have known that it was a possibility, especially as many  young provisional licence 
holders are eager to obtain a full licence as soon as they can.
Be Wiser  said that they couldnt  have known the premium would increase 
substantially in the event Mr D passed  his test and got a full licence. They also said 
its unfair to put the onus on them to tell Mr D. But I think Be Wiser have contradicted 
themselves. On the one hand  theyve  said they couldnt have known the premium  
would increase, yet theyve said its common knowledge. Furthermore, they referred 
me to an article they published in 2014  that says once  you have passed your 
test Often there is a large increase in your premium. So I think  its plain that Be 
Wiser were aware that it was likely that the premium would increase substantially.
Be Wiser  said that its likely  they would have told Mr D that the premium would 
increase as they have a phone script to that effect. I have been provided with a copy  
of the script. First of all, I understand the actual  phone  recording of the call with Mr D 
is not available.  Turning to the phone script  provided, it reads that once a full licence 
is obtained: This may increase the premium  charged by the insurer.  I note on the 
page of the script  it says Ver 916 21-Dec-2018, which  I think indicates this is the 
version of the script from that date. But Mr D took out his policy  in February  2016. So 
its not clear if this script was available when Mr D took out his policy. Furthermore, 
the script  says:  Young Driver Age 25 NOT  21 suggesting the script  was applicable 
to drivers aged 25 and not 21. At the time Mr D took out his policy he was under 21. 
So, on balance, Im not satisfied that Be Wiser told Mr D that his premium  would  
increase substantially on passing  his test.
Be Wiser  said that they havent  seen evidence to suggest  that Mr D obtained a more 
competitive quote elsewhere at either the point of sale or when passing  his test. I 
dont think the question whether or not the premium was competitive is relevant. The 
issue is that Mr D wasnt  told before he took out the policy  that his premium  could 
increase substantially once he passed his test. 
Be Wiser  said that Mr D didnt have to accept the additional premium when the mid-
term adjustment was made and he could have  cancelled the policy.  But if Mr D had 
done that, being half way into his policy year, given he had an open claim he wouldnt 
have been entitled  to a refund at that point,  so he would have been out of pocket.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require Be Wiser  Insurance  
Services Ltd to:
Ref: DRN26447174Write  to Mr D to confirm they are no longer demanding payment of the additional 
premium from him.
Pay Mr D a total of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
him. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr D has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that amount  
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1 
Take the necessary action  to correct adverse entries, if any, recorded  with the credit 
reference agencies  in relation to the non-payment of the additional premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
  
1 If Be Wiser consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr D how much they have taken off. They should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2644717