K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the quality of repairs esure Insurance  Limited arranged following 
a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to esure includes  its agents.
background
Mr S car was damaged in an accident. esure  arranged repairs. Mr S was happy with the 
quality of the workmanship but he said the paint on the repaired area didnt match the paint 
to the cars bonnet - which hadnt  been repaired. He sent esure the results of an analysis of 
the paint  using a tool called a spectrophotometer  intended to find the correct paint match - 
to his car by a company  that supplies paint to the repairing garage.  Mr S said the results of 
that analysis showed the paint to the repaired area doesnt match  the other areas  on the car.
esure instructed an independent engineer to examine the car. He agreed  that the paint didnt 
match. He suggested  that esure should  arrange  for the bonnet  to be painted  to match  the 
repaired area of the car. esure said it would agree to that and it paid Mr S £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience because the paint didnt match.  But Mr S 
wasnt happy with the engineers suggestion.  He said that he wanted  the repaired area to 
match the bonnet not the other way round.  
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt think  esure had dealt with Mr S 
fairly. So he said that it should arrange for the areas of repair to the car to be painted to 
match the paint  analysis using the spectrophotometer and the existing paint.  esure didnt 
agree so the complaints been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
An independent engineer  agreed that following the repair the repaired area no longer 
matched the paint  on the bonnet. esure  thinks the bonnet didnt match the rest of the car 
before the repair. Ive seen some images  of the car both before and after the repairs  but its 
difficult to say from those with any certainty  whether  or not the paintwork  matches  either 
before or after the repair. But whats clear is that Mr S was satisfied that the paintwork on the 
cars bonnet  was a reasonable match to the rest of the car before the repairs.  But he was 
clearly unhappy  that the repaired area no longer matched the bonnet  after the repairs. 
Also the results of the paint analysis Mr S sent to esure would appear to show  some 
differences between  the paint applied to the repaired area with that which  is on the rest of 
the car. esure said that the actual finish has more to do with the manner in which the paint is 
applied than the make-up of the paint itself. That might be the case. But the fact remains that 
Mr S was happy with the colour  of his bonnet (and the rest of his car) before the repairs, so it 
doesnt seem reasonable that esure should  change  the colour of his bonnet now.  It follows  
that I think that the fairest thing for esure to do would be to have the repaired area resprayed 
and blended  to match the result of the paint  analysis that Mr S supplied.
Ref: DRN29275762my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to 
arrange to have the repaired  areas of Mr S car resprayed and blended  to the colours shown 
on the spectrophotometer or so it matches the remaining panels including  the bonnet.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2927576