K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about Society  of Lloyds. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with a 
claim under his complete vehicle hire policy.
background
Mr G made  a claim under his vehicle hire policy after his car was involved in an accident  
when it was being driven by his pupil, a learner  driver.  The car wasnt  driveable and Mr Gs 
policy provided a hire car if he was unable to work in circumstances like this.
Unfortunately, there was a delay in getting  Mr G a hire car under the policy  of about a week.  
And Mr G encountered  other delays  with his insurer that impacted upon  his ability to get 
back to work  after the return of the hire car. But Mr G has also complained  about  his car 
insurer, so those issues are being considered separately. 
When Lloyds eventually  looked at the complaint  it accepted Mr G faced  delay in getting a 
hire car. It apologised for the poor service he received; the fact Mr G had to chase for a car a 
number of times; and the general  delay.  Lloyds felt that it should have taken about two days, 
as opposed to seven, to get Mr G a hire car and offered him £500 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr G and upheld his complaint. He thought Lloyds 
acknowledgement of its delay  and poor service  was reasonable. But he thought it should 
look to reimburse Mr Gs loss of earnings for the five-day delay in addition to the £500 
compensation. But Lloyds didnt agree. It felt that it had already considered Mr Gs loss of 
earnings in making  its offer of compensation.
As Lloyds  didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
When Lloyds eventually  considered Mr Gs complaint it acknowledged there can be short 
delays in getting customers into hire cars in circumstances like this. But it accepted a week 
was too long, and that Mr G should  have had a hire car in his possession within a couple  of 
days. It also acknowledged that Mr G had to continually  chase  for updates  and to get the 
hire car he was entitled to under the policy. So, it thought Mr G should be paid £500 
compensation for the poor service and delay.
Since our investigator raised the issue of paying Mr Gs loss of earnings (subject to 
reasonable evidence) for this five-day  period, Lloyds has said that it considered this as part 
of its offer of £500 compensation. 
While I accept this might have been the case,  that isnt what  Lloyds said in its final response 
which just referred to the delay and general  poor service. Furthermore,  given the potential 
level of Mr Gs loss of earnings I dont think this would be anywhere near enough.  And 
wouldnt, in effect,  give him any compensation for the poor service  involved. So, it is only fair 
that Mr Gs loss of earnings  is covered separately. 
Ref: DRN27859152I can see Lloyds has also raised  the point that Mr G had the hire car for the full period 
allowed under  the policy.  And says that the insurer has delayed things at the end of the 
policy. It has implied that Mr G would have been without a car for longer at the end of the 
hire period  if there wasnt  a delay in getting  the car in the first instance.  
But Mr G had a complete hire vehicle  policy  in place for this very reason (so he didnt lose 
business and inconvenience customers in the event his car was involved in an accident). 
And I think it would be a particularly difficult period of time for Mr G when the accident  first 
happened. I say this as it would be impossible for him to get another  car in such a short 
period of time or to manage his customers expectations which is why he had this policy  in 
place. This would be easier, although still problematic, towards the end of the month  as Mr G 
would have been able to use that time to organise  his business and manage his customers  
expectations. 
As such,  Im happy to leave Mr Gs car insurer to look at whether it is responsible for any 
delays in dealing  with the car insurance claim.  While issues relating to Mr Gs vehicle hire 
policy provided by Lloyds are dealt with here.  
So, I think it is only fair and reasonable, in the particular  circumstances of this case, for Mr G 
to be paid his loss of earnings for the five-day  period  that Lloyds  acknowledge he should 
have been in hire. This is in addition to the £500 compensation offered for the poor service 
Mr G faced during the early stages of his claim. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to consider Mr Gs loss of earnings for the five-day period he was without  
the hire car (subject to Mr G providing supporting  evidence). And to pay him £500 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785915