K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a fee-paying Silver 
packaged bank  account in October 2014.  
Mr A says he was invited into branch and was told that Lloyds doesnt provide fee-free 
accounts any more.  He says he was presented with two different packaged accounts and 
thinking he had no option to choose a fee-free account, he chose to change  his account to a 
Silver account.
background
Mr A also initially  complained that hed been  mis-sold a Select packaged  bank account  in 
2006. But weve separately explained  why we cant look at that complaint because  Mr A 
complained too late about  it. So this decision is only looking at the complaint about Mr A 
being sold a Silver packaged account.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint. He didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold  the 
Silver account to Mr A. 
Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and so the complaint has been referred 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr As complaint. Where  evidence is 
incomplete and matters are in dispute,  as they are here, I make my decision based on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider  
circumstances at the time. Having considered everything that Mr A and Lloyds have said and 
provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr A says that he was invited into branch  and was given information  about two packaged 
bank accounts  but was told that Lloyds didnt provide  fee free accounts anymore. Because  
of this, he says he chose to upgrade his account  to a Silver account.  
Ive carefully considered  Mr As recollections  of the sale of the Silver  account, however Im 
not persuaded that Mr A was mis-led  into thinking  that he had no choice but to upgrade his 
account. I say this because if Mr A was told that fee-free accounts were not available and he 
didnt want the Silver  account, I wouldve expected him to have kept his account as a Select  
account, rather than agree  to the Silver account that cost £1 more per month  than the Select 
account did.
Lloyds says that its sales process included giving customers a choice of accounts to open,  
including the option of opening fee-free accounts.  And it has provided an Interview  
Summary Document which it says contains  a summary of what  was discussed  with Mr A 
during the sale of the Silver account. 
Ref: DRN29825382In this document, it says that the following accounts  were discussed with Mr A: Classic (fee-
free), Club Lloyds, Club Lloyds Silver, Club Lloyds Platinum and the Silver account, as well 
as a Home Solutions  product and overdraft.  It was recorded that Mr A agreed  to the Silver 
account because  of the insurance benefits  it provided and that he wanted to apply for a £50 
overdraft facility at the same time to avoid incurring fees if he were  to go overdrawn.
Based on everything  that Ive seen and been provided with, I think its more likely  than not 
that Mr A was made  aware  that he could opt for a fee free account but, perhaps persuaded 
by the member of staff at Lloyds, chose to upgrade to the Silver account  knowing that he 
didnt have to.
Lloyds recommended Mr A upgrade his account  to a Silver account.  Mr A appears  to be 
saying that Lloyds was wrong  to have done this. But Lloyds can recommend  a packaged 
account to consumers, providing it checks  that it would be a reasonable fit for them,  based  
on their circumstances  at the time.
The Silver account provided European travel insurance, as well as breakdown cover and 
mobile phone insurance  and card protection cover that Mr A already had with the Select 
account. And there is evidence that Mr A travelled within Europe  so it seems  that Mr A had 
a need for the benefits that the Silver account  offered. Plus Mr A had a mobile phone and 
drove and was able to benefit from a £50 interest  free overdraft facility, although these were 
also a benefit  on the Select account.  The Silver account was the cheapest account to offer 
this combination of benefits (including the European  travel insurance), so I think  that Lloyds  
recommendation was reasonable  in the circumstances.
As well as making sure the account  was right for Mr A, Lloyds also had to give him important 
information about the account. Based on what Ive seen, I think  its likely  that Mr A was given 
some information about the account and the associated benefits. But I also accept its 
possible that Mr A might  not have been given  all of the information he shouldve been by 
Lloyds. But Ive not seen anything about his circumstances that makes me think  he wouldve 
been put off from agreeing to the Silver account  had he been given more information  about 
it. Because of this, I dont think the Silver account  was mis-sold to Mr A. 
I appreciate that Mr A, with the benefit  of hindsight,  may now think that agreeing to the Silver 
account has been poor value for money.  But this doesnt mean  that Lloyds was wrong to 
have sold it to him. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to require Lloyds to refund 
the fees Mr A has paid for the Silver  account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29825383
Ref: DRN2982538