K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold life cover  subject to indexation by Tilney Discretionary 
Investment Management Limited (Tilney). 
background
In early 2014, Mr P was recommended  life cover with indexation, increasing annually to 
replicate the increase in the 50% of his pension payable to his ex-wife. The policy  started in 
early 2015,  during his divorce proceedings and the policy was part of the divorce settlement. 
Mr P says Tilney confirmed that the premiums  would only rise in line with the retail price  
index (RPI), thus remaining broadly as a fixed percentage of Mr Ps pension  matching the 
increase in his pension   so that the premiums remained affordable.  
I note a letter from the adviser dated  21 January 2015 said the following: 
"Thank you for your email dated  14th January 2015  in which  you asked for clarification of 
several aspects of the Bright Grey  Life Assurance policy for risk that commenced  on 5th 
January 2015.  The initial premium for the policy will be £423.93  per month  which will adjust 
annually in line with the Retail Price Index  (RPI) together with the sum assured of £50,000 
per annum".  
In due course Mr P discovered that the premium increases would be higher, so he 
complained to the business and in short  made the following key points: 
He wasnt advised that the policy was subject to a 2% increase  per annum even 
when RPI was less than that. 
He also wasnt advised  that he could pay premiums annually in advance. So 
ultimately he paid more in premiums  than he was led to believe.
Assuming the RPI was 3% a year, Mr P would end up paying £310,710 in premiums  
until the policy ended in January 2046, instead of £225,586.  This amounted  to 
roughly £85,124  more  than he was advised.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Regardless of what the documentation provided  by Tilney shows, its more likely 
(than not) Mr P relied upon what he was told by the adviser at the point of sale,  and 
proceeded on the basis that the premiums would only increase with RPI. 
In the circumstances Tilney should  pay the following redress:
oRefund the excess premiums paid over the 2% RPI increase with 8% simple 
interest. On the basis of the monthly premiums Mr P paid, compared what  he 
wouldve paid, had he instead paid the annual premium in advance. 
oIn terms of the future it seems Mr Ps ex-wife  has rejected any change to the 
policy. But based on what Mr P says theres a means of him replacing the 
current policy - subject  to agreement from his ex-wife and the courts.  
oTilney should pay Mr P any legal fees he incurs for replacing the policy, albeit  
the figure is currently unknown.  
oIn the event that the legal negotiations are futile Mr P will have to continue  
with the current  policy.
Ref: DRN28027062Tilney accepted the adjudicators view.  It said that it wasnt  minded  to contest his findings 
any further and in principle agreed  with his suggested redress.  It accepted  that Mr P was 
entitled to legal fees in remedying  this situation  and finding a replacement policy. It proposed  
making a final payment  of £5,000 in full and final settlement of this complaint in the 
understanding that the final cost may be more or less than this amount.  
But Mr P didnt agree with Tilneys offer. He maintained that he was still at a financial 
disadvantage. In addition  to the primary claim  the difference between the RPI increase 
compared to the actual  increase  he was claiming  for the following losses:
£543.80 for the difference in paying monthly  compared to paying annually  in 
advance. Although  Tilney agreed to this, it wasnt specifically mentioned by the 
adjudicator in his view.  
£688.07 to cover the extra premiums  paid  when the premium increased  even  
though the RPI didnt increase by 2%. 
By way of clarification  his actual claim is for the difference of the additional 
premiums already paid and those that would  have been paid if the cover had only 
risen by the lower  RPI and not by 2%.
£3,425.76  in reimbursement for the fees hes paid for advice to the business. 
£10,000 to cover the reimbursement  of expenses and fees paid for independent  
advice.  
Our adjudicator was persuaded to amend his redress recommendation and made the 
following key points:
Mr Ps initial points  about the £543.80 and £688 have already been covered by his 
view. 
Mr P should be refunded fees paid for advice with interest, but only if a replacement 
policy is put in place (and his ex-wife agrees to the proposed amendment to their 
divorce agreement). But if Mr P continues with the current policy  then no refund  for 
advice will be due. 
Mr P should be paid £500 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.  Its not our 
role to punish a business for any errors made. 
Tilney didnt agree with the adjudicators redress view. Despite making a new offer to pay 
£7,500  which Mr P rejected  it asked  for an ombudsmans decision. It felt its offer was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P was encouraged by the adjudicators view, to compensate  him for legal expenses in the 
event a replacement  policy  was needed.  But Mr P is unhappy  that Tilney  didnt  contact his 
solicitors during the 14 day review period to formalise the position  with regards to legal fees. 
He made  the following final key submissions  in support of his complaint:
Tilney should pay him £2,000 to cover  the cost of:
oadditional premiums  hes already  paid;  
othe increase  in premium by 2% a year;
onot being advised  that he could pay the premiums annually in advance.   
A refund of the fees paid to Tilney   in the sum of £3,425.76  for advice, with 
interest. 
£5,000 for trouble and upset  caused in dealing  with this complaint,  including for the 
time and money  spent.  
Ref: DRN28027063He remains concerned that the matter may be referred to court if his ex-wife doesnt  
agree or if hes unable  to find a replacement policy, which he doesnt  think will be a 
problem. 
In the event that hes unable to settle  this matter, he doesnt accept that Tilney 
shouldnt be responsible for future  expenses. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the reasons. Im going 
to uphold this complaint.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise  Mr Ps 
strength of feeling  about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr P and Tilney,  and reach what I think  is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note that Tilney isnt now contesting the adjudicators recommendation to uphold  the 
complaint, so the key issue for me to consider is the redress element of the complaint, and 
whether or not its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Tilney says,  Im not satisfied that 
its offer to pay a £7,500 lump sum,  as full and final settlement of the complaint is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
For the record I agree with the adjudicators conclusions, and think  its unlikely that Mr P was 
advised about the premium increases over and above RPI. If Tilney  had done so, on balance 
I think that rather than take out the life policy, Mr P was likely to have done  something else 
as part of his divorce settlement. 
Whilst theres no ideal way to remedy this situation (quite the contrary given the nature of the 
complaint), in an effort to place Mr P in the position (or close to the position) he wouldve 
been in, but for Tilneys errors and in an effort to resolve  this matter, I think  Tilney should do 
the following:
Refund the excess premiums paid by Mr P over RPI, with 8% simple interest to mark 
the loss of use of these funds. In other words, it should pay Mr P the difference  
between the premium he paid and the cost of paying  the annual  premiums in 
Ref: DRN28027064advance, on the basis of RPI increase only. So that theres no doubt, this covers 
premium increases above 2% and not paying the premiums annually in advance.  
Refund the fees paid by Mr P for the advice, with 8% interest. But only if a new 
policy is required and not if Mr P continues with the current plan.  
Pay Mr P £500 compensation for trouble and upset  caused. This is to mark the 
significant time and energy Mr P has spent trying to resolve this matter.  
Pay for any reasonable legal fees for arranging a new policy and effectively 
amending his old divorce settlement  at court. Mr P will need to provide an invoice  
setting out the work carried out and hourly  rate charge with VAT  before this money 
can be paid.
Its a matter for Mr P to decide  what he does  for the future. 
But if hes unable to find a new policy  its a matter for him to decide whether  or not he 
continues with the policy. Unlike before he now knows the position with regards  to the 
premium increase, so Tilneys cant be held responsible if he decides to continue with the 
policy. 
   
I note Mr P disagrees with the adjudicators conclusion in this regard and feels that in the 
event the matter isnt settled it should  be liable to cover future  losses.  But Im not sure that 
the business can reasonably offer to do any more, especially  if Mr Ps ex-wife  disagrees with 
whats now being suggested. 
I note what Mr P says about the additional  £10,000 hes claiming  including  the cost of 
obtaining independent advice. I dont  think  hes entitled to this amount or a higher amount 
over the £500  Ive already  awarded. 
Whilst I appreciate the time and effort spent in trying to resolve this complaint, our service  is 
free to consumers, and Mr P was free to refer the complaint without seeking additional 
advice. In other words,  it was Mr Ps choice to obtain additional advice when it wasnt 
compulsory  unlike the situation surrounding legal fees as Mr P is unlikely to be able to get 
through the legal process without lawyers.  
I also dont think Mr P is entitled to the £85,124 which  he says hell have paid by the end of 
the policy. This isnt a financial loss Mr Ps incurred and we dont  pay for loss that might  be 
incurred in the future. 
I appreciate Mr P will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the adjudicator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he might want to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, despite  upholding  the complaint 
Im unable to give him what he wants
Ref: DRN28027065my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Tilney Discretionary  Investment Management Limited should calculate and pay Mr P redress  
as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802706