K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Services) (JFS) was not of satisfactory 
quality.
background 
Mr T decided to acquire  a car after seeing  an advertisement online. As part of the 
transaction he part exchanged his existing car (car A) and settled his finance  agreement 
(agreement 1) associated  with car A.
Mr T says the terms and conditions of his new HPA (agreement 2) were sent to him so it 
could be set up for when  he collected the car (car B) on 15 March. When  he collected  car B 
he noticed issues with the paintwork and was told to go back the next day for the issues to 
be rectified. Driving home he says he noticed the brakes werent as they should be.
The next day Mr T says he was asked to get quotes  for the bodywork which  he did. He says 
the dealer asked that he pay half the cost which he didnt think  fair but he accepted. Car B 
was booked in for the work  but Mr T says he noticed  further  issues  and also that the work 
car B was booked  in for was not as agreed.
Mr T says he went to discuss  this with the dealer  and was told he had no right to return 
car B. He says he mentioned the brakes  but this issue  was ignored. Mr T says he took car B 
for a second  opinion  and found  that previous repairs werent  carried out as they should have 
been.
Mr T says he asked  the dealer if he could reject car B and also contacted  JFS about this. He 
says the dealer just told him it was a used car and didnt accept the rejection.  He says JFS 
contacted him to introduce his case manager  but he then heard nothing for four weeks 
despite chasing. He says the stress of the issue was making him ill and that due to where he 
lives he needed a car so he took car B to a few garages to discuss  part exchange. He says a 
number of garages werent interested but he was then offered £22,000, leaving him with 
negative equity of £4,000.  Mr T says that at this time he also became aware that negative  
equity from car A had been added to agreement 2 without his knowledge.
JFS says that an agreement was reached  with the supplying dealership to part exchange  
car B for another vehicle (car C). It says that agreement 2 was settled so there was no 
further liability. It says it updated  Mr Ts credit  file to reflect  this and offered to refund the 
£524.83 payment  made to it along with 8% interest  and pay him £100 for the trouble and 
upset of having to return  car B.
Our adjudicator thought that the offer made by JFS was fair. He said JFS wasnt responsible 
for the negotiations Mr T had with the dealer in regard to the part exchange  of car B.
Mr T didnt  accept our adjudicators view. He said the offer included a refund  for an 
overpayment which shouldnt have  been  taken from his account and that the compensation 
of £100 wasnt  sufficient. He said that car B was only part exchanged  after his request to 
reject it had been refused. He said he was told car B needed to be inspected but that he 
made five attempts to arrange this without a response. He also said that he received a letter  
saying his complaint  had been upheld so he should be entitled to his money  back, including  
the amount added to agreement 3 reflecting the negative  equity  on car B.
Ref: DRN27406892Mr T said he wanted to know what action the dealer  had taken in regard to his attempt to 
return the car. He said he bought the car online and should have  been  allowed to return it 
within a certain timeframe. He also reiterated  that the negative equity was added  to 
agreement 2 without  his knowledge.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
on balance, I didnt  have enough  evidence to say that car Bs price was 
misrepresented to Mr T or that the negative equity  was added to agreement  2 without 
Mr Ts knowledge;
Mr T raised  issues about the quality of car B as soon  as he collected  it. The majority 
of the issues related  to the bodywork but he also raised  concerns about  the wear  of 
the brakes. I didnt  find I had enough  evidence to uphold  Mr Ts complaint in regard  
to the brakes;
there were issues with the bodywork  which meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply;
Mr T would have  had the option to reject the car within the first 30 days however it 
appeared that he initially accepted that repairs could  take place. As he accepted  the 
offer of repairs I found it reasonable  that this option was taken forward;
further investigation then raised more issues and Mr T decided  he wished to reject 
the car. He raised this with JFS and it agreed to investigate. JFS should be allowed 
time to investigate a complaint and while I understood Mr Ts frustration at not 
hearing back, I didnt  find I could  say JFS caused any unnecessary delays.
JFS upheld Mr Ts complaint on the basis that a part exchange for car B had been accepted.  
Had Mr T not part exchanged car B and the complaint  had been  upheld we would expect 
him to return  car B and have agreement 2 cancelled with nothing further owing. We would 
also expect Mr T to receive a refund for any deposit  amount  paid and we would  consider  any 
other redress that might be required.
However, Mr T part exchanged car B before  the JFS provided its final response to his 
complaint. This was Mr Ts choice and JFS was not party to the new agreed deal. Mr T 
received an amount for car B that was less than the settlement  amount leaving him with 
negative equity which I understood was transferred to agreement 3, allowing agreement  2 to 
be settled.
Overall, I thought Mr T may well have taken a different course of action if JFS had been able 
to respond quicker  to the situation.  But he had to accept some responsibility for the situation  
- as his actions hade contributed to it. I didnt think itd be fair to make  JFS pay Mr T all of the 
negative equity that arose following  the part exchange of car B. But, I also didnt think  it fair 
that he suffered  such a large loss on car B (price  of £25,000 and negative  equity of over 
£3,000) within such a short space of time when  it appeared,  on balance,  it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
I proposed that the loss (the negative equity) Mr T suffered should be split equally between 
him and JFS.
Ref: DRN27406893I noted that the negative equity that arose  from the part exchange of car B was £4,000,  but 
agreement 2 was settled in full. Agreement  2 included £922.68 of negative  equity  that arose 
from the part exchange of car A. I thought this amount should be removed from the 
calculation of negative  equity reducing  the £4,000 to £3,077.32. So this meant JFS should 
pay Mr T £1,538.16, along  with interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Mr T didnt  make a deposit  payment and so there  was no refund required in regard to this.
Mr T made one a payment towards his agreement. As Mr T had use of the car for a month 
before it was part exchanged I accepted  that he would be required to make a payment. 
Looking at the statement of account it appeared that Mr Ts payment was made  three days 
before the settlement amount was paid which  resulted in an overpayment.  This amount was 
therefore refunded.  As this has settled the account I found this reasonable but I noted Mr Ts 
comments about what the payment related to.
I also noted that the other parts of the offer made  by JFS, were  paid to Mr Ts account. This 
included the £100 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr T was caused. Mr T didnt 
think this was sufficient  but looking at the issues raised I thought that JFS did take the 
actions we would expect when Mr T raised his complaint and that the £100 was reasonable 
given he decided to part exchange car B before JFS completed its investigation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
As I set out in my provisional  decision I didnt think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.  The car was part exchanged by Mr T and JFS wasnt  party to this. Overall,  I 
thought it fair that the negative equity that arose form the part exchange of car B should be 
split between the two parties.  This meant that Mr T would  be refunded £1,538.16, along with 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement.
Both parties  agreed to my provisional decision and so I am now issuing my final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Black Horse  Limited  (trading as 
Jaguar Financial Services) should,  additional  to the actions it has already taken, refund Mr T 
£1,538.16 (that is 50% of the net negative equity that arose form the part exchange of 
car B). This amount is subject to interest  of 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
If Black Horse  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN27406894Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jane Archer 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740689