K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a car supplied by Suzuki Financial Services Limited through a hire 
purchase agreement  was mis-sold to him and wasnt of satisfactory quality. He also 
complains about  the customer  service  hes received.
background
Mr W acquired a car in June 2018  through a hire purchase agreement with Suzuki  Financial.  
It was new and cost about  £9,500.
From October 2018 onwards Mr W contacted the suppling dealership  and Suzuki Financial 
about issues with the car  these included a noise coming from the brakes and rust on the 
drive pulley and towing hook. These issues were looked into:
-the brake pads  were  deglazed and later replaced;
-the drive pulley was considered to be in a safe and reasonable condition;  and
-the towing  hook was replaced.
Mr W remained unhappy so he asked for the car to be repaired or to be allowed to reject  it. 
Suzuki Financial didnt think there was anything in need of repair. And it didnt think there 
were grounds for rejection. But it offered to arrange an independent  inspection.  Mr W didnt 
think this was a fair resolution to the matter so he brought the complaint to this service.
The investigator looked into the matter  and recommended that Suzuki Financial  allow Mr W 
to reject the car. This was because she wasnt persuaded hed been  supplied with a car of 
satisfactory quality. Following conversations with Mr W she said to put things right 
Suzuki Financial should:
-take the car back at no cost to Mr W;
-refund  Mr Ws deposit plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
-refund  Mr Ws payments from 6 November  2018 (the date the brake pads were 
replaced) plus simple interest  at 8% a year from the date of each payment to the date 
of settlement;
-refund  Mr Ws insurance premiums from 6 November 2018 (the date the brake  pads 
were replaced)  plus simple interest at 8% a year from the date each premium was 
paid to the date of settlement; and
-pay Mr W £150 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  hed 
been caused.
Suzuki Financial accepted  the investigators recommendation. Mr W didnt. He wanted 
solicitors fees (£426) and calls/postage  costs (£326) refunded. He also wanted  £4,000  
compensation for the impact  this matter had on his health. The investigator didnt think  this 
was justified. As an agreement couldnt  be reached  the complaint was referred  for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
Between the complaint  being referred  for an ombudsmans final decision and it being passed 
to me the car was collected by Suzuki Financial to prevent  Mr W incurring any further costs. 
I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Ref: DRN23884392Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate)  what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the 
relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement   so I can 
consider a complaint relating to it. Suzuki  Financial is also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  the sale and 
about the quality. 
I should start by explaining that were  an informal dispute resolution service.  Mr W 
has made numerous allegations  against  Suzuki  Financial.  My role allows me to focus  
on what I consider to be the crux of the matter. I consider  this to be:
-whether the car was mis-sold to Mr W
-whether Mr W was supplied with a car of satisfactory quality
-whether the customer service was poor to the extent that compensation is 
justified
Ill address each in turn. 
was the car mis-sold to Mr W?
Mr W says he was told the car was only available in three colours, which wasnt  right. 
He says he was told the car was being  shipped to the UK, when it had been in the 
UK all the time. And he says he was told to sign paperwork before getting the car, so 
he didnt have a chance to inspect  it. 
I accept that the car is made in many colours  and that only three  colour options were  
put to Mr W. But I think  its most likely Mr W was simply  offered the colours the 
dealership had in stock.  
Mr W visited the dealership on 16 June 2018.  He ordered the car on 20 June 2018. It 
was delivered to him on 22 June 2018.  As I understand  it the car Mr W was supplied 
with arrived in the UK on 28 May 2018  and was delivered to the dealership on 14 
June 2018. If Mr W was told the car was on route  from abroad,  I dont think this was 
right. But I dont think that knowing  the car was in the UK, rather  than on route  to the 
UK, would have put Mr W off acquiring  it. 
My understanding is that Mr W test drove  a car of the same make  and model  as the 
one he chose to acquire.  I dont think this is unusual as dealerships which  sell new 
cars tend to have cars specifically for test drives, so the new cars remain  new cars. 
Following this test drive Mr W placed  an order  which  included  signing paperwork 
such as the finance agreement. Again, I dont think is unusual given Mr W had 
committed to acquiring the car and it needed  paying for. 
The car was delivered  on 22 June 2018.  Ive seen a sales  handover  checklist which  
has been signed by Mr W. It says, among other  things, that hed been  offered a test 
drive, that the car was free from defects, that he received the handbook and service 
Ref: DRN23884393warranty book, and that he would recommend the dealership. Based on this, and that 
Mr W didnt raise any concerns at the time,  Im not persuaded he was denied the 
chance to inspect the car.
Overall, I dont  think the car was mis-sold to Mr W.
was the car of satisfactory  quality?
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a 
contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods  is 
satisfactory. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  
of the goods, the price and all the other  relevant circumstances. So it seems  likely 
that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take 
into account might include  things like the age and mileage  at the time of sale and its 
history. 
Suzuki Financial supplied Mr W with a brand-new car. I think its fair to say that a 
reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second-hand, 
more road-worn car. And that it could  be used  free from defects  for a 
considerable period of time. 
 
Mr W says he thinks  there  were  faults  with the car. Ive carefully considered  what  
hes said about the issues. Im sorry to hear the car wasnt to the standard  he 
expected. But in this case Im not persuaded something was actually  wrong with the 
car. Ill explain  why.
brakes
Mr W said there was a noise coming from the brakes. Ive seen  job sheets. These 
show the car was inspected on 2 October 2018 to investigate noisy brakes, on 
9 October 2018 the dealership deglazed  the brakes, and on 6 November 2018 the 
front brake pads  were replaced.
At face value the above suggests there  was an issue with the brakes. But as I 
understand it, a fault wasnt identified. Instead, the deglaze and replacement  of brake 
pads was undertaken to appease  Mr W. I further  understand that after the front brake 
pads had been replaced Mr W remained unhappy  so he was asked  to facilitate the 
supply of a sound file (a recording of the noise the brakes were making)  to the 
manufacturer so it could  consider the matter further,  but he declined to do so. And I 
can see Suzuki Financial offered to arrange  (and pay for) an independent inspection 
of the brakes  to see if a fault could  be identified, which Mr W declined.  
Overall, Im not persuaded there was a fault with the brakes.
drive pulley 
Mr W said the drive  pulley was rusty.  This was looked into by the dealership  and 
advice was sought from the manufacturer.  The consensus  was that there  was some 
surface corrosion, but that this is normal for metal components and wasnt 
Ref: DRN23884394detrimental or dangerous. Im not persuaded this corrosion meant there was a fault 
with the car.
towing hook
Mr W said the towing hook was rusty.  Suzuki  Financial accepted there was a small 
area of rust on the towing hook. Im not persuaded this is unusual  on a metal  
component which is open  to the elements. So Im not persuaded this was a fault.  But 
in any case, the dealership replaced it at no cost to Mr W. 
overall
I think Mr W was most likely supplied with a car of satisfactory quality. And even if the 
rust on the towing hook  shouldnt have been there, I think it being replaced was a fair 
remedy. I dont think Suzuki  Financial should  have had to allow  Mr W to reject the 
car. 
was the customer  service poor to the extent  compensation is justified?
Im aware that Mr W has had many  interactions  with the dealership  and around 80 
phone calls with Suzuki Financial.  I should explain that I can only consider the 
actions of the respondent to this complaint,  Suzuki  Financial, and those of the 
dealership in its capability as the credit broker, which Suzuki  Financial are also 
responsible for. 
I cant comment on the customer service  the dealership  provided  after it had sold the 
car to Mr W. In any case, I understand Mr W complained to The Motor Ombudsman  
about the customer service the dealership provided,  and that it didnt find in his 
favour.
I should also explain that complaint handling  isnt a regulated activity  so I cant  
comment on the way Suzuki Financial  responded to Mr Ws complaints. And lastly, I 
should explain that this service is an informal dispute resolution service,  so I wont be 
considering the customer service Suzuki Financial provided in minute detail. Instead, 
Ill consider things in the round.
Having reviewed Mr Ws letters, call transcripts and having listened  to phone calls 
Mr W had with Suzuki Financial, I understand how strongly  he feels about  this matter. 
In his view he was supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory  quality and was 
frustrated Suzuki Financial wouldnt allow him to reject it. But Suzuki Financial not 
agreeing with him doesnt amount to poor customer service. From what Ive seen and 
heard Im satisfied Suzuki Financial dealt  with Mr W in a professional  manner and 
responded to contact  from him appropriately. And as Ive said,  I cant comment on 
the way his complaints were handled.
Overall, Im satisfied with the customer service Suzuki Financial provided when Mr W 
told it about his concerns  with the quality  of the car it had supplied  to him.
my provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN23884395responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said, in summary, he had proof there was a 
fault with the brakes, he disagreed that the car had been collected  by Suzuki Financial to 
prevent him incurring  any further costs, and he was dissatisfied for a number of reasons with 
the actions of Suzuki Financial, the dealership, The Motor Ombudsman and this service.
Suzuki Financial accepted  my provisional  decision.  But said in the interest  of treating Mr W 
fairly it would  like to offer him two options for moving this matter  forward:
1.Suzuki Financial will finish taking the car back (Ill come on to explain what this 
means) and update Mr Ws credit  file to show the finance  agreement as settled. It will 
also refund his deposit of £238.
2.It will valet the car to ensure its clean and presentable. It will update Mr Ws credit 
file so that it doesnt show any adverse information. It will waive  the payments Mr W 
has missed from when  the car was collected  until the present. It will return  the car to 
Mr W for him to retain for the remainder of the term of the finance agreement. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the bundle of documents  Mr W 
provided in response  to my provisional  decision.  
Mr W has referred to an email chain as proof there  was a fault with the brakes. It consists of 
an email from Suzuki Financial to the cars manufacturer asking if theres a known problem 
with the brakes  on Mr Ws model  of car. The manufacturers reply was:
The answer is not so straight forward unfortunately. Brakes can make  different noises - 
some are normal  & others not & pretty much every  one is a case  by case basis. We are 
aware of some brake  squeal  that is abnormal on [model of the car] & there are some 
countermeasure brake pads being produced to rectify this noise. Unfortunately  in winter  it's 
always worse  with the road salt causing  a higher  level of corrosion & noise in many cases 
I dont think the email says there is a fault with the brakes on the car Suzuki Financial  
supplied to Mr W. Instead, I think  it says there  could  be. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, and as the email chain Mr W has referred to also makes clear,  the dealership 
(which investigated  the matter repeatedly) didnt think there was a fault with the brakes. 
Mr W hasnt provided  any independent evidence that there  was a fault. Nor did he facilitate 
an independent inspection when Suzuki Financial said it would  arrange  and pay for one. Im 
not persuaded there was a fault with the brakes  which meant the car supplied to Mr W was 
of unsatisfactory  quality.  It follows that I dont think I can fairly ask Suzuki Financial to allow 
him to reject  the car.
Mr W says Suzuki  Financial didnt collect the car to prevent him incurring any further  costs.  I 
accept this might not have  been  its only reason for collecting the car, as I think Mr W was 
clear he wanted rid of it. But Mr W didnt accept  the recommendation made by the 
investigator, so the complaint wasnt settled. This meant Mr W ought to have kept the car 
(and the expenses  this entailed such as tax, insurance and maintenance) and continued  to 
make payments towards  it. 
Ref: DRN23884396Despite there being no requirement  for it to do so, Suzuki Financial collected the car (at its 
expense) and has kept it in storage  (at its expense) while the case was being  decided. 
Further, since collecting the car Suzuki  Financial hasnt received  any payments from Mr W, 
even though they have  been due under the finance  agreement. It hasnt pursued him for 
these payments or recorded missed payments  on his credit file. Suzuki Financial has, in 
effect, started the process  of taking back the car (which has been  to Mr Ws benefit,  and to 
its detriment) but as the dispute hasnt  been settled, didnt finish.
I think Suzuki Financials actions around collecting the car have been fair. They tie in with 
the options its made available to Mr W, namely:
1.Suzuki Financial will finish taking the car back and update Mr Ws credit file to show  
the finance agreement as settled.  It will also refund his deposit  of £238.
2.It will valet the car to ensure its clean and presentable. It will update Mr Ws credit 
file so that it doesnt show any adverse information. It will waive  the payments Mr W 
has missed from when  the car was collected  until the present. It will return  the car to 
Mr W for him to retain for the remainder of the term of the finance agreement. 
I think these options  are fair ones. I say this because it seems to me Suzuki Financial could  
return the car to Mr W and ask him for the payments he ought to have  made since the car 
was collected.  If these went unpaid the car might  then be repossessed and Mr W would be 
liable for the shortfall in settling the finance agreement following the sale of the car. 
I would encourage  Mr W to think carefully  about how he moves this matter forward  and seek  
advice if he feels it would  be helpful.  If he decides  to choose one of the options put forward 
by Suzuki Financial he should  contact it directly. 
Mr W remains unhappy with the customer service Suzuki Financial provided. I think - for the 
same reasons I set out in my provisional decision - the customer service Mr W received was 
satisfactory.
Overall:
-I dont think the car was mis-sold  to Mr W;
-I think Mr W was supplied with a car of satisfactory quality;  and
-I think the customer service Suzuki Financial  provided was satisfactory.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2388439