K820x#14complaint
Miss Ks unhappy with the way National Westminster Bank  Plc has dealt with her when there  
was a problem  with a payment made on her mobile  phone banking  app.
background
Miss K attempted to transfer £6 to a relatives  account using her mobile phone app. As the 
account details  used didnt match her relatives  she later contacted NatWest. She was told 
shed have to call back 24 hours later and that shed be given the money back.  But shes 
unhappy she wasnt told shed need  the account  details the money was sent to. The next 
day when asked for the account details she couldnt supply them as theyd been deleted  
from her account by the advisor the previous day. Miss Ks unhappy with the delays and 
inconvenience caused by the incorrect information  she was given. She wants  additional 
compensation for this. 
NatWest accepted in its final response that itd made an error.  Its returned the £6 to Miss K, 
paid her £25 compensation for the inconvenience  caused and £16.20 for her call charges.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
NatWest has shown  that its internal process  allowed  the advisor to refund the £6 
straightaway as a gesture of goodwill. But as the advisor didnt follow  the internal 
process and continued  to raise  a faster payment recall the process was lengthier and 
inconvenient for Miss K. 
NatWest has apologised that the refund didnt happen straight away.  Its put things 
right by refunding  the £6. He appreciates  Miss K would  like more compensation but 
NatWests offer of £25 compensation and £16.20 for her call costs  is fair and 
reasonable. He wont  be asking it to do anymore. 
Miss K doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says she was given 
wrong information three times and wasnt called  back as promised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest couldve clearly  dealt with things better and handled the £6 refund when  Miss K first 
contacted it. But it has now put things right by making a £6 refund to her, paying £25 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  and reimbursing £16.20 for phone charges.
I understand Miss Ks frustration at whats happened and the inconvenience she was caused 
sorting things out over a day or so. But taking everything into account,  including the level of 
awards we make, I agree  with the investigator that NatWest has acted fairly. And I dont 
think I can reasonably ask it to pay anything more  than its already done, as Miss K would 
like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN26597132my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2659713