K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance  Limited  in relation to a 
home emergency insurance policy.
Some of our correspondence has bene  with Mr Ps wife, on his behalf, but for ease I will just 
refer to Mr P in my decision.
background
Mr P held a gas appliance check policy with British Gas for several years. Under  this 
agreement British Gas carried  out a yearly  boiler service but didnt provide cover for repairs.
In November 2018, Mr P contacted British Gas as the overflow pipe for the boiler had been 
leaking. He had been advised by a relative   whos a plumber  that the expansion  vessel 
needed to be replaced.
British Gas explained that the policy didnt cover repairs,  so Mr P decided  to upgrade to a 
policy that did include repairs.  British  Gas said if he did this an engineer  could come out.
An engineer  attended two days later but said the boiler didnt meet  the standards  required  to 
be accepted for cover.  So he wasnt able to carry out any repairs to the boiler.  
Mr P said the engineer  carried out a temporary fix but the problem became worse  and they 
had a leak, which caused damage to a ceiling, and he complained  about  this. British Gas 
said due to some problems with the boiler that the engineer found on his visit, he couldnt 
add repairs cover. It said the engineer  had advised what  work  needed  to be done  and noted  
that Mr Ps relative would be able to come and do this. In response  to further questions,  
British Gas agreed to refund the one-off charge  of £99 Mr P had paid for the visit and offered 
an additional  goodwill payment of £50.
Mr P wasnt  happy and complained to our service.  Our investigator  didnt  think the complaint 
should be upheld.  She said British Gas decided not to provide repairs  cover. And she didnt 
think British Gas should have to refund the repair costs as Mr P would have  needed to get 
that work  done  in any event. But she agreed British Gas should refund the premium as it 
didnt upgrade the policy to cover repairs.
Mr P raised some further points but the investigator didnt change her view. In particular,  she 
said the engineer  had explained at the time of his visit that the boiler wasnt  at the standard 
needed to be eligible  for repair cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the policy Mr P had in place, British Gas would  carry out an annual service  of his 
boiler but he wasnt covered for repairs.  When he called about the problem British Gas said 
he could upgrade to include  cover for repairs and arranged for an engineer to attend.  The 
policy terms for repair cover say what will happen in these circumstances:
Ref: DRN24665912At the first service  our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved  list and your 
boiler or central heating and ventilation dont  have any pre-existing faults.  If we find its not 
on the approved  list or it has a pre-existing fault well either:
Tell you what needs to be done  to fix it  and how much itll cost
Offer  you a different product or level of cover
Or, cancel  your agreement or product.
The policy defines  first service as where we may visit you after you first take out a product 
covering your boiler to check and confirm whether we can cover  you.
Insurers can decide what cover they wish to provide. British  Gas says the condition  of the 
boiler meant  it wouldnt be able to offer repairs cover, so it couldnt honour  the policy 
upgrade. The policy terms set out what will happen at the first visit and explain that British  
Gas may not be able to offer repairs cover. Thats what happened in this case  because of 
the condition of the boiler (in particular the type of pipework) it didnt meet  the requirements. 
And the engineer noted on the forms he left with Mr P that this meant  he couldnt have full 
cover.
Mr P says the engineer carried out repairs that were not done well, left the overflow  still 
leaking, and left them without heating or hot water. The engineer might not have fixed  the 
problem but I cant  see that he caused it; there  was already a leak,  which is why Mr P called 
British Gas in the first place. If British Gas had agreed to upgrade  the policy to include 
repairs cover, then the engineer could  have carried out the repairs. But the policy  wasnt  
upgraded.
For these reasons, I dont  think  British  Gas should  have to refund the cost of the repairs;  it 
didnt agree to upgrade the policy to include repairs, so Mr P wasnt covered for these costs. 
And Mr P would have  had to get the repairs done in any event, so this isnt an additional 
cost; its something he would always have had to pay for.
As the policy wasnt upgraded, Mr P shouldnt have to pay the extra  premium  for repair  cover  
but British Gas agreed to refund this so theres  no need for any further action in relation to 
this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2466591