K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement which 
has been transferred  to Paragon Bank  Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement that he signed  in 
January 2018  and which has been  transferred to Paragon. Mr M says that he hit a pot hole 
when driving the car in October  2018 and the next day noticed oil coming from the left wheel 
hub. He took the car to a garage which said that there was an oil leak to the front hub and 
front axle joint that was old standing. It was estimated that the repair cost would be 
£2,034.49. 
Mr M complained to Paragon and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent 
expert in January 2019. Paragon then said that the car was performing with no issues before 
the impact which  would indicate that it was sold to a satisfactory standard.  Mr M wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Mr M 
was able to travel around 4,000 miles and was using the car without fault or issue until the 
point of the impact  on the road - which would suggest that the car was in good working order  
for its age and mileage  up until that point. 
Mr M has asked  for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has provided 
detailed comments on the investigators  recommendation,  the garages repair estimate, the 
independent experts report and the cars MOT  test history. He says, in summary,  that the 
cars MOT test history indicates that there was a problem with the wheel hub before the car 
was supplied to him and that the car was mis-sold to him because he was told that it had a 
clean bill of health.  He says that hes no longer  driving the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance  company, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M  and that responsibility has now been  
transferred to Paragon. Whether or not the car was of satisfactory quality at that time will 
depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and the price  that 
was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr M was nearly thirteen years old, had been  
driven for 91,070 miles and had a price of £7,750. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability  
which means that the components within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
The car was supplied to Mr M in January  2018 and Ive seen no evidence to show  that he 
complained about any issues with the car until October 2018,  when he found an oil leak after 
hed driven over a pot hole. He took the car to a garage which  identified  an oil leak to the 
front hub and front axle joint that it said was old standing.  It estimated that the repair  cost 
would be £2,034.49. That was more than eight months after the car had been supplied to 
Mr M and the garages repair estimate  shows that the cars  mileage was 94,566 miles. 
Ref: DRN22712012Mr M then complained to Paragon about the oil leak. It arranged  for the car to be inspected 
by an independent expert in January 2019. The experts report said that the cars mileage 
was then 96,378 and that there was evidence of an on-going  oil leak. But it said that an oil 
leak would  not be an advisory at an MOT test on a car of this age and mileage, hitting a 
pothole could have  accelerated the ongoing  issue and the seepage would have been 
apparent at the point of sale.
The car failed  an MOT  test in January 2018 because two lights werent working and an 
advisory was noted that the offside  front lower suspension has slight play in a lower  
suspension ball joint . The car then passed  an MOT test three days  later and was then 
supplied to Mr M. 
He was able to use the car for more than eight months  without noticing  an oil leak and he 
was able to drive about 3,500 miles in the car during  that period. He drove over a pot-hole  in 
October 2018 and then noticed an oil leak. The car was inspected  in January 2019 and in 
the three months  between the garages  repair estimate and the inspection  report the car was 
driven for another  1,812 miles.  
Both the garages  repair estimate and the inspection report  say that there  had been an oil 
leak for some time and it may have  been  present when the car was supplied to Mr M. But 
the car had passed an MOT test and Mr M was able to use the car without any reported  
issues and didnt notice  an oil leak until October  2018. So Im not persuaded that theres  
enough evidence  to show that when  the car was supplied to Mr M it wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality for a car that was nearly thirteen years old and that had driven 91,070  miles.
Mr M says that the car was mis-sold to him because he was told that it had a clean bill of 
health. But the car had passed an MOT test and Im not persuaded that theres enough 
evidence to show that the car was mis-sold to him.
I sympathise with Mr M for the difficulties  that hes had with the car and for the repairs costs  
that he may now have  to pay. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Paragon to allow Mr M to reject the car, to pay for the 
required repairs on the car or to take any other action in response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2271201