K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank Plc blocked  and then closed his current account. Hes also 
unhappy that TSB havent provided an explanation  about why it closed his account. He says 
this caused him inconvenience and he wants TSB to pay him compensation.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 August  2019. In my provisional  decision I explained why Id decided not to 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Having looked  at what had happened in this case,  I was satisfied that TSB had acted in 
accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations when it had reviewed  and blocked  
Mr Cs account. I also said TSB hadnt  done  anything wrong when it decided to close  Mr Cs 
account. And hadnt treated Mr C unfairly  when it asked him to repay the debts he owed the 
bank.
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make 
before I made my final decision.  TSB accepted my provisional decision and didnt have any 
further evidence  or comments. Mr C didnt accept my provisional  decision. In summary he 
said:
he never received  the notice to close letter from TSB;
he is the victim of financial bullying;
he wants to know why TSB closed his account;
why should  he repay  his loan and overdraft if TSB wont  tell him the reason it closed 
his account and  
an outside source is telling banks to close his accounts 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr C for his submissions and Ive thought  carefully about  what hes said. Mr C 
suspects another  company run by highly corrupt powerful people told TSB to close  his 
account. Whilst I recognise the strength  of his feeling, Ive not seen any evidence to show  
that this was the case.
Mr C suspects there is a conspiracy to prevent him from having  a bank account because 
TSB hasnt  given him, what  he feels to be, a specific reason for why his account was closed. 
But TSB isnt obliged to give him an explanation.  So I cant  say TSB has done  anything 
wrong by not giving Mr C the information  he wants.  Having  said that I can see that TSB did 
let Mr C know that it chose to close the account because it wasnt happy with how the 
account was being run  this includes the account activity and transactions. So I think its 
likely Mr C had some understanding about why TSB decided  to close his account.
The bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking services  to. They 
cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer.  But they can say they no longer wish to do 
business with individuals.  Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to decide who 
they want to contract  with. And having  looked at the evidence, Im satisfied that TSB has 
Ref: DRN25330502exercised its commercial decision legitimately when  it decided  to close Mr Cs account. So I 
cannot fairly and reasonably say its done  anything wrong.
Mr C maintains he never received the letter TSB sent to him on 14 February  2018,  about the 
closure of his account. But TSB has provided evidence  to show  this letter  was sent to Mr Cs 
address. So Im satisfied  TSB did write to Mr C, in accordance with the terms and conditions  
of the account,  to let him know it was closing his account. I cant  hold TSB liable for any 
issues Mr C may have  had with not receiving post  that would be a matter for Royal Mail. 
I think TSB couldve  been clearer it was also closing Mr Cs loan account, especially given 
the notice to close letter only referred  to Mr Cs current account. But I dont  think this has had 
much of an impact on Mr C. And I dont  think Mr C suffered  any financial loss as a result of 
this. So although  I think TSB couldve done  better  here, Im not going to ask them  to 
compensate Mr C. 
When Mr Cs accounts were  closed the debts  Mr Cs overdraft and loan became due. The 
notice to close letter told Mr C that if he owed TSB money  hed need  to get in touch to make  
arrangements to repay what he owed. Since  May 2018 TSB has sent several reminders and 
default notices  to Mr C, which explained  what further  action could  be taken, including 
recording information with credit reference  agencies  and passing the accounts to debt 
collectors. So TSB has done what Id expect it to do and has communicated clearly with him 
about the consequences of not repaying  his debts. 
In summary,  having weighed everything  up, I think TSB was entitled  to block  and close  
Mr Cs accounts. And to ask him to repay the debts  he owed. I dont  think  TSB acted unfairly 
in doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533050