K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about the total loss settlement Aviva Insurance  Limited paid when 
she made a claim under  her commercial vehicle  insurance policy.  
background
Mrs S bought a commercial vehicle insurance  policy through a broker in August 2018. In 
October 2018 she made a claim. Aviva repaired her van.
Unfortunately Mrs S was involved in an incident in January  2019  and so she made another  
claim to Aviva. This time Aviva said the damage caused meant it wasnt economical to repair 
Mrs Ss van. So it settled the claim by paying  Mrs S the market value for her van. 
Mrs S said the value it paid was too low. She said Aviva hadnt taken into account 
modifications that had been carried out to her van. 
Aviva said Mrs S hadnt declared the modifications when she bought  the policy. But Mrs S 
said Aviva  knew about  the modifications  when she made a claim in October 2018. So she 
said Aviva  should  have updated their records. Mrs S believes it isnt fair for Aviva  to 
disregard the modifications because they increase  the value of her van. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had acted reasonably. He found the valuation  it had paid was 
within the range of the main motor  trade  guides. As Mrs S didnt declare the modifications 
when she bought the policy,  he didnt  think Aviva needed to take them into account.  
Mrs S didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation  
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs S has provided proof to show she paid £4,500 for it in July 2018. Mrs S said she had a 
lot of work  done  to it since. Her van was a converted mobile sandwich selling vehicle.
Aviva settled the October 2018 claim by paying  for the repairs to Mrs Ss van. The repair 
costs were less than the market value Aviva reached of £4,000 in October 2018. The £4,000 
valuation was based on a standard model. 
In line with the Insurance Act  which applies for commercial insurance policies - its for a 
consumer to make the insurer aware  of anything that may affect their cover  - such  as 
modifications to the vehicle. Aviva has provided  evidence to show that Mrs S didnt declare 
any modifications to her van when she bought the policy in August 2018.The  Statement  of 
Fact document  shows  that Mrs S was asked if her van was modified. She answered no. 
Mrs S says Aviva took into account the modifications when it agreed to repair her car 
following the October 2018 claim.  So because it was aware of them then, it should include 
them in its valuation following the January 2019  claim. 
Ref: DRN24543302However, the repair costs  were less than the market value for a standard  model of Mrs Ss 
van in October 2018. But in January 2019 the repair costs exceeded the market  value at that 
time.
I think Aviva  was entitled to consider voiding Mrs Ss policy  in October  2018  for 
misrepresentation. Its provided evidence to show it wouldnt have  offered Mrs S a policy  if it 
had known about the modifications. This means Aviva wouldnt have met her claim in 
October 2018. But instead it repaired  her van as the repair costs  were less than the market 
value for a similar vehicle  which  hadnt been modified. And Aviva allowed the policy to 
continue. Having to declare a voided  policy means the choice  of insurers is greatly reduced - 
and the price of future insurance is much higher. 
So I think Aviva  has dealt  with the January 2019 claim in a fair and reasonable way and in 
line with the policy.  The valuation it reached  is in line with the motor  trade  guides  for a similar 
non modified vehicle to Mrs Ss.
I understand Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Aviva needs to do 
any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2454330