K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1997 Mrs M bought  PPI at the same time as she applied for a mortgage.  Neither  party can 
confirm how or where the PPI was sold. The policy gave her protection against accident, 
sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she had no idea she had PPI, it must have been added  without her 
knowledge. I cant know what was said at the time of the sale, but Ive considered 
Mrs Ms comments carefully.  I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was 
and how that might affect what  she recalls. Bank of Scotland no longer has any of the 
paperwork from the sale, but thats not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago it 
was. Without stronger evidence I cant fairly conclude  that Bank of Scotland  didnt make 
it clear the PPI was optional, and Mrs M didnt agree to take it out.
Its most  likely Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M, and I think it seems to 
have been right for her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She 
was entitled to six months  pay if she was sick and would have received redundancy pay. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits and for up to 12 months 
for all accident, sickness and unemployment claims. 
Her representative argues that the fact she never missed a payment shows  she didnt 
need PPI. But I disagree,  the policy was there to protect her against changes  to her 
health or employment circumstances  that meant she could  no longer make her 
repayments. Mrs M was borrowing quite a large sum over a long period, secured on her 
home. So the effects of not keeping  up with the repayments could have been serious for 
her. Overall,  I think  the PPI would have been  useful if Mrs M was sick, had an accident 
or lost her job.
Ref: DRN26094292Its possible  Bank of Scotland  didnt give Mrs M all the information  she needed before 
she decided to buy PPI. The PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable   
Mrs M paid a monthly premium and didnt incur any additional  interest on these 
premiums, as her representative states.  And she doesnt appear to have  been  affected 
by any of the main exclusions or limitations  (such as those affecting people  with pre-
existing medical conditions or on certain  types of employment contract). Overall, I dont 
think there was any information missing  that wouldve changed her decision.
Ive considered all of Mrs Ms comments,  and those of her representative, carefully but for 
the reasons set out above they dont change  my conclusion. 
It follows I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2609429