K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) hasnt fairly paid a claim he made under 
a pet insurance  policy he took out for his dog, M.
background
Mr H took out an insurance policy for M in January  2019, to commence on 3 February 2019. 
On 15 February 2019, Mr H took M to have her vaccinations, and the vet noticed a lump on 
Ms head  (the first lump). Mr H returned  with M to the vet on 2 April 2019, so the lump  
could be removed, and during that operation the vet found another  lump  on Ms leg, which  
was also removed (the second lump).
Mr H submitted a claim for the removal of both lumps under the policy.  But UKI declined  the 
part of the claim made in relation to the first lump (the first claim) on the basis that it was a 
pre-existing condition and was discovered within the first 14 days  of the policy term. The 
claim was accepted for the second lump (the second claim) but UKI concluded that there 
were no treatment costs that could  solely be attributed to the second  lump, so no payment 
would be due under  the policy.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and concluded that under  the terms of the 
insurance policy, UKI correctly declined  the first claim and she agreed that no amount was 
payable to Mr H for the second claim.
Mr H accepted that the first claim wasnt covered under his policy,  but he didnt accept our 
investigators conclusion  that there was no payment to be made by UKI for the second claim.  
Mr H expressed  the view that if the second  lump was covered, then there should be a pro-
rata application of the operation costs to the removal of the second lump.  That part of Mr Hs 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision  to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy terms and conditions set out what UKI will pay for vet fees, in section one. They  
say: Well refund treatment costs for vet fees or complementary treatment that you have to 
pay for a condition providing  the condition happened during a period of insurance and the 
treatment was given  during  a period of insurance  when the premium has been paid, under 
the following  conditions:  
Its not in dispute  that only the second  lump would be covered by the policy.  And Mr H has 
advised us that he paid a higher  premium for a lower excess of £190.  So, under the terms of 
the policy, UKI would  only be liable to refund vet fees to Mr H that exceeded  the excess  
payment of £190.00.
 
Ref: DRN22399642The vet provided  an estimate of £671.37  for the operation on 29 March 2019.  But the actual 
invoice for the operation dated  2 April 2019  showed  an increase to the estimate of £113,  
giving a total cost of £784.47. Also, the vets notes from the date of the operation  refer to the 
second lump being  found  and indicate  a revised  estimate of approximately £100 in relation  
to that lump.  Ive also seen an invoice dated 8 April 2019 for post-operative care,  in the sum 
of £91.78 which Mr H says related to the second lump only, and therefore needed to be 
included in his claim.
Our investigator didnt  accept that the invoice for £91.78 related only to the second lump,  
because there was nothing included on that invoice to say that. She went  on to conclude that 
the amount that could be apportioned to the second  claim wouldnt exceed  the excess  
payable, so UKI didnt  need to pay Mr H any of the vets costs for the second claim. 
I also agree  that UKI isnt required to make  a payment to Mr H for the second claim. I think, 
based on the available evidence, £113  of the operation costs  can be attributed to the second  
claim, (which is £77 less than the excess payment Mr H would have  needed to pay).  
With regard to the invoice for post-operative care, although Mr H has said it related to the 
second lump only, I havent  seen anything which supports that. So I think it most likely 
related to both lumps.  So, adding £45.89 to the operation costs, (for half of the costs for 
post-operative care),  the total amount that can be attributed to the second claim is £158.89, 
which is still less than the excess amount payable on the claim.  
Mr H has also provided a further estimate  from the vet dated 10 May 2019 which sets out the 
costs of £766.47 that wouldve likely been  incurred if the second  lump was removed during a 
separate operation. But as the policy terms only provide for refunding vets fees that have 
been paid, UKI isnt responsible for paying the amount included in the 10 May estimate. 
As UKI hasnt done anything wrong  here I wont be awarding any compensation to Mr H. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in this decision I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2239964