K820x#14Complaint
Ms C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as First Direct, wont  refund £2,600  which 
was stolen from her bank account  due to a third party scam. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc says theyre not liable for the loss because  Ms C authorised  the 
payment and they could not have  reasonably  intervened,  or done more to recoup the money 
from the receiving bank. 
Background
On 10 September  2018 Ms C got a call from someone claiming to be from HM Revenue  & 
Customs (HMRC).  The caller said she hadnt paid her taxes and owed HMRC money.  The 
caller convinced Ms C they were  genuine  and, via online banking, she made  a payment of 
£2,600 to the scammers account at 2:37pm. Ms C made further payments to the fraudsters 
via a third party bank account and Ill be considering  these in a separate decision. 
After making these payments, Ms C spoke  to her husband and realised shed been 
scammed. Ms C called First Direct to report the incident at around  10:39pm that night. 
First Direct  contacted the beneficiary bank, Ill call N, on the 11 September 2018 to see if any 
of Ms Cs money could  be recovered.  But Bank  N responded that no funds remained. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Cs complaint but didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They believed that the transaction wasnt unusual or out and character and that it did 
what it could to help her recover the money once it became aware of what had happened.  
Ms C disagreed with our investigators  findings.  In summary she said:
The bank could  monitor more thoroughly  where  the funds are being  transferred to. On 
making the payment Ms C thought it was being  sent to an account in her name, and argued 
First Direct  should have identified that she didnt hold an account with the receiving bank and 
therefore prevented  the scam.  And blocked  the payment.
Because Ms C didnt  accept our investigators  findings its been passed to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. And Ill explain why below.  
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms C was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She used her security  credentials to request the payment. So, although 
she did not intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her account, Ms C is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
First Direct  should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN27203072Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
So, taking all of this into account, I need  to decide whether First Direct acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Ms C when she made the payment  of £2,600 to a scammer, 
or whether it should have done  more than it did.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think the payment was particularly suspicious or 
unusual enough  to say First Direct ought to have  had concerns that Ms C was being 
scammed. I say this because the amount Ms C transferred  wasnt particularly unusual for 
her and she accepts she authorised it. I have noted that Ms Cs balance  was taken down to 
double figures  once the payment was made   and Id likely regard this as suspicious had this 
been unusual  for Ms C, or payments were due out of her account near that time which 
couldnt be honoured. However, Im satisfied  that the low balance isnt necessarily  a rare 
occurrence for Ms C  and I cant see any standing orders or direct debits, near the time of 
the low balance, which werent or wouldnt  have  been honoured because of the transfer. 
Overall, having reviewed her account activity in the weeks and months leading up to the 
transaction, I dont  think the transaction was sufficiently suspicious to conclude First Direct 
ought to have identified that it may be potentially fraudulent.  
Ms C made the point  that she gave her own name  as the reference in making  the payment 
and that the beneficiary account was presumably  held in a different name. Shes  asked how 
the payment still went through despite the apparent mis-match. However,  as First Direct 
explained to her, the primary details it used  were the sort code and account number. Its true 
that banks are now required to check that account  names match who the sender believes 
theyre sending  money to  however this wasnt the case at the time. And I realise  this will be 
disappointing to Ms C but Im unable to conclude  that First Direct should have carried  out 
this check and identified  the discrepancy. 
For these reasons I wouldnt have expected First Directs fraud detection  measures to have 
been triggered or therefore for the bank to contact Ms C. 
Did First Direct do enough to try to recover the stolen funds?
When Ms C told First Direct that shed been  scammed the bank contacted  Bank N the next 
day to see if any of her money  could  be recovered. Banks have a responsibility to contact  
the receiving bank immediately after being notified  about a scam. Its clear  that First Direct 
didnt take action immediately after being  notified  in Ms Cs case.  Bank N have confirmed 
that Ms Cs money was moved  on by the time First Direct did make  contact, however its 
important for me to consider if First Direct had contacted Bank N immediately after being 
Ref: DRN27203073notified by Ms C whether any funds would have  been recovered. Ive contacted  Bank N for 
more details regarding  exactly when the money  was transferred out. Unfortunately its not 
been possible for them to obtain  this information.  However, its not unusual in scams like this 
for the fraudsters to withdraw funds very quickly. So, on balance Id be surprised if funds did 
remain in the scammers  account when Ms C contacted  First Direct just over eight hours after 
the scam.  And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest any funds would have  been  
recovered even  if First Direct had acted  sooner.
I realise this will be very disappointing to Ms C, but for the reasons Ive outlined  above I 
wont be asking First Direct to do anything further here.  
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2720307