K821x#15complaint
Mr W says PDL Finance Limited  trading  as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
background
In January 2020 I issued my provisional  decision. In it I explained why I thought Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given  Mr W his fourth loan. 
In summary  I said that by the time Mr Lender gave Mr W loan 4, it should  have  been  clear 
that Mr W was in some difficulty managing his money. I didnt think  it was reasonable for it to 
conclude that Mr W was going to be able to sustainably  repay  loan 4 given  how little money 
hed be left with.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
Mr Lender said it had nothing further  to add and would accept my recommendations to 
resolve the complaint. Mr W didnt  come back to me with any more information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
As neither party has come  back with any further information for me to consider I see no 
reason to change  the findings set out in my provisional decision.
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, I think  Mr W lost out as a result 
of Mr Lender giving  Mr W loan 4 and it should put things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr W loan 4.
I understand that Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debt, so it should buy it back  if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps.
If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debt back,  then it should liaise  with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
A) Mr Lender  should remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on loan 4 and 
treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been  repayments of the principal 
on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then it should  
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then move to step C.
Ref: DRN22641462B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender  should  try to agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr W. Mr Lender  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances  made  up of 
principal Mr Lender has already written-off. 
C) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in 
relation to loan 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
should give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I partly uphold this complaint. 
Mr Lender should  put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22641463Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr W says PDL Finance  Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  four payday loans Mr Lender provided to Mr W between November 2013 and 
May 2014. Mr Ws borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 1 was payable  within  18 days, Loan  2 was payable  within 11 days, Loan 3 was payable within  
20 days and when Mr W took out Loan 4, Mr Lender built in a deferred interest payment of £255.00 
which was payable within the first month followed by the full amount  thereafter. Loan 4 is still 
outstanding. 
Mr W complains  that Mr Lender provided  loans which were unaffordable.
Mr Lender says thorough checks were carried out which  it believes were  proportionate to the loan 
amounts. It says the checks showed no evidence  of financial difficulty and deemed Mr W a 
creditworthy customer.  
In its final response, Mr Lender said Mr W had told it he was experiencing financial difficulty  whilst 
repaying loan 4. It said it had passed his loan 4 account to a third-party  debt collection  agency.  It also 
told us that this third party told it Mr W had made no repayments  towards  his outstanding  balance.  As 
a gesture of goodwill, it offered to recall the account from the third party  and reduce the outstanding 
balance to the remaining amount borrowed and arrange an affordable monthly repayment plan.
On review of further information  provided by Mr W our adjudicator said she couldnt say Mr Lender 
had done anything wrong in providing all four loans. She thought the checks  it carried  out were  
sufficient for the first two loans and wouldnt have  alerted  Mr Lender to carry out further checks. She 
also told Mr W that Mr Lender should  have  carried out more checks  for loans 3 and 4. She said in 
relation to loan 3 she couldnt see Mr W had any other loans outstanding at the time - so she didnt  
think it was wrong to give this loan.
But when Mr Lender  provided loan 4, she said although it should have carried out a full financial  
review the checks showed Mr W would  have been left with enough money to meet  his repayment on 
the fourth loan. And as there were  no other outstanding loans at the time, she said she didnt  have 
enough to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Mr W disagreed with this view. He provided  further information about  his other loans and asked that 
the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount Repayment
1 08/11/2013 02/12/2013 £450.00 £585.00
2 11/12/2013 27/01/2014 £150.00 £195.00
3 06/02/2014 27/05/2014 £350.00 £455.00
4 29/05/2014 outstanding £850.00 £1,105.00
Ref: DRN22641464my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether 
Mr W could  sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.  And after having done so, Im intending to say Mr Lender 
shouldnt have provided Mr W with the fourth payday loan. I will explain why.
Loans 1 and 2
On balance, I think  the checks Mr Lender did for the first 2 loans  were proportionate. These were  the 
first loans and in the early stages of its relationship  with Mr W, so I think it could rely on the 
information it had been provided with. And this information didnt show that the loan repayments were 
likely to be unaffordable for Mr W. So, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint about these  
loans.
Ref: DRN22641465Loan 3
When Mr Lender  provided Mr W with loan 3, it should have done some  further checks  to check 
Mr Ws financial circumstances, as this was for quite a large sum and it was Mr Ws third loan in a 
short space of time.  It was also taken not long after hed repaid his second loan. But although Mr W 
had taken out short-term loans at some point, by the time Mr Lender provided  Loan 3, it appears that 
these had already been repaid. So, I dont think Mr Lenders checks would have  shown it Mr W was 
having problems  managing his money at this point  and I also dont intend to uphold  Mr Ws complaint 
about loan 3.
Loan 4
On its own information Mr W had told Mr Lender that he had an income  of around £2,000.00 and 
expenditure of around £1,000. The cost of loan 4 was £1,105. 
Mr Lender asked the same  questions and did the same checks for loans 4 as it had for loans 1, 2 and 
3. This time the loan was for a substantial amount and taken out only two days after hed repaid the 
third loan. Overall Mr W had taken out four loans in just over six months.  So, on this occasion  it 
should have done more  - it should have carried out a more thorough financial check of Mr Ws 
financial circumstances.   If it had I think it would  have been clear  to Mr Lender that Mr W was having  
problems managing  his money. I say this because:
Although Mr W had repaid other short-term loans with different lenders by the time, he had 
taken out the fourth loan, a full financial  review would  have likely  alerted  Mr Lender to the fact 
that Mr W had a history of taking out short  - term loans. It appears he was regularly taking out 
loans which likely indicated an ongoing problem managing money.
This loan was also taken out only two days after repayment of his third loan. I dont think this 
loan was affordable. After Mr W repaid the deferred interest payment on his loan in the first 
month followed  by the full amount due, he would have had nothing  left from which to meet 
any other unusual or unexpected  expenditure.
It was also for a substantial  amount  more than his previous loans. By the time it lent Mr W 
loan 4, Mr Lender  should also have  been  alerted to the possibility that Mr W might  have been 
having some  difficulty  in managing his finances. There was a pattern of Mr W returning  shortly 
after repaying a loan for further lending.  This was likely caused  by the repayment of the 
previous loan causing a short fall in his finances which he filled by taking out new lending.  
And Mr Lender ought  to have known that there was a significant  risk Mr W wouldve  been 
unable to sustainably  meet his monthly repayments for this loan. 
Ive also explained above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds  and pence basis it 
doesnt necessarily mean that a consumer can afford to repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.
The regulations in place  at the time provided  guidance  about  what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time,  while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the agreement, 
and out of income or savings.
I think  Mr Lender  needed  to do more  to verify Mr Ws income and expenditure by the time it lent Mr W 
loan 4. If it had I think it would have seen  that Mr W was in some difficulty  managing his money, that 
he had a history of taking out payday  loans and even on its own information it had obtained, I dont 
think it was reasonable for it to conclude  that Mr W was going to be able to sustainably  repay loan 4 
given how little money  hed be left with.
So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about  loan 4 and Mr Lender should put things right.
Ref: DRN22641466putting things  right  what Mr Lender  needs  to do
Mr Lender shouldnt  have given Mr W loan 4.
I understand that Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts, so it should  buy these back  if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps.
If Mr Lender  is not able to buy the debts back, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve 
the results outlined  below.
A) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on loan 4 and treat any 
repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding 
loans. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then it should  refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then move  to step C.
B) If there is still an outstanding balance  then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr W. Mr Lender shouldnt pursue  outstanding balances  made up of principal Mr Lender has 
already written-off. 
C) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation to loan 
4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to deduct  tax from this interest.  Mr Lender should  give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above  Im intending to uphold loan 4 and ask PDL Finance Limited to put things 
right as I have  set out above.
Both parties should provide  me with any further information  they wish me to consider by 22 February  
2020 before I make my final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2264146