K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) refused to reimburse her for the 
costs of private medical treatment under her travel insurance policy.  
My references to Miss C will include her representatives. And my references to URV  will 
include its agents. 
background
Miss C held a travel  insurance  policy, provided  by URV. 
Miss C travelled abroad on holiday. While she was away,  she unfortunately suffered a fall. 
Miss C was taken to hospital  and was diagnosed with a hip fracture. She was recommended  
surgery to fit a dynamic hip screw. However,  Miss C said she wanted to have conservative 
treatment instead  of surgery. 
On contacting URV, Miss C was told that the hospital she was in was a private  facility.  URV 
said treatment in a private  hospital wasnt covered under her policy and Miss C would need  
to be transferred to a public hospital. 
Miss C said she contacted the public hospital  who said they didnt have enough beds 
available and would be unable to admit her. So she remained  in the private  hospital.  
URV said the public  hospital did have a bed available for Miss C and was willing to admit her 
if she was to undergo  hip surgery. However,  it said the hospital had said it couldnt 
accommodate her for the conservative treatment she wanted.  
Miss C said the public hospital  had offered surgery, but said it wouldnt be able to carry it out 
straight away and Miss C would have  had to wait for five days. 
Miss C opted to receive conservative treatment  at the private hospital and paid for this herself.
URV told Miss C its liability would be limited to the costs it would have had to pay if Miss C 
had accepted surgical treatment at the public hospital. And it agreed to repatriate her to the 
UK by stretcher on a commercial flight once it was medically safe to do so. 
Unhappy that the costs  shed paid for private treatment wouldnt be covered, Miss C 
complained to URV. 
URV responded to the complaint. It clarified that Miss Cs policy  didnt cover private hospital 
treatment in EU member  states where adequate  public facilities  are available.  And it said in 
this case a public hospital had offered to treat Miss C. 
URV said the medical evidence had shown the best outcome for Miss C would be achieved  
through surgery. And it said that a public  hospital  had agreed  to admit Miss C for surgery.  
But Miss C had declined  this as she wanted to have conservative treatment instead. 
URV said it wanted to assist Miss C and suggested the following three options. 
(i) continue  to pay for treatment at the private  clinic until we can repatriate you safely; 
Ref: DRN25639262(ii) change your mind  and ask to be transferred to the public hospital making it clear you 
will accept  treatment; or
(iii) inform the private clinic that you will not be able to pay for treatment after a certain  
date; they will be obliged  either to treat you without further charge, or transfer you to the 
accident and emergency department of the public hospital.
Miss C was dissatisfied with URVs response and brought  her complaint to this service. She 
also submitted claim forms for URV  to assess. 
Following lengthy  communications  with this service,  URV ultimately made  an offer to Miss C 
of £5,201.16 which it said covered the following: 
the first two days of private hospital costs 
a further five days  of the private hospital  costs 
hospital benefit 
equivalent costs of a private nurse in the public  hospital 
taxi fares
agreed costs incurred by Miss Cs companion 
Miss C didnt accept URVs offer and said this would leave her with £6,000 still to pay. So, 
the case has been passed  to me. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Miss C feels strongly that she should be entitled  to choose the type of treatment she 
receives. However, her travel insurance policy doesnt  cover private treatment when 
adequate public facilities are available. This is a common  feature of most travel 
insurance policies  on the market. As treatment was available at a public hospital,  albeit  
not Miss Cs preferred  type of treatment, I thought  URV was justified in initially saying  
that it wouldnt  pay for private  treatment costs.
Miss C said there were  difficulties  getting through to URVs emergency helpline  and said 
she didnt know  she had been taken to a private  hospital  initially.  I accepted  this and 
noted URV  agreed to pay the costs  incurred on the first two days Miss C was in the 
private hospital - I thought that was fair. 
It was clear to me there was some misunderstanding over what  treatment could be 
accommodated at the public hospital.  I thought URV could have done more at the time to 
communicate with Miss C and the hospital to avoid this misunderstanding. However, URV 
agreed to pay for a further five days  of Miss Cs private  treatment costs, which seemed to 
be in recognition of this issue. And I said I thought that was fair in the circumstances.
URV said it will pay the costs equivalent  to what it would have had to pay if Miss C had 
received treatment at a public hospital,  as would have been covered by her policy. I said 
I thought this was reasonable.
Ref: DRN25639263I said I understood  Miss C didnt wish to have surgery,  and Id taken into account the 
reasons she gave for this. In making  a decision about what  it thought the best course of 
action was in this case, I said Id noted  URV relied on the treating doctors diagnosis that 
Miss C needed to have  surgery.  And it referenced NICE (The National Institute for 
Health and Care  Excellence) medical  guidelines  which  showed  surgery  was the most 
effective option.  Further medical guidance  URV  relied  on also highlighted the potential 
complications associated with conservative treatment and I noted that Miss C did 
experience some  of these complications during her treatment.
I accepted that it would have been beneficial  for the surgery  to have taken place as 
soon as possible, but I said Id not seen any evidence which  persuaded me that carrying  
out the surgery in the time frame  offered by the public hospital would have been 
detrimental to Miss Cs health or her recovery.  
Having taken  into account everything both parties provided, I said I was satisfied URV 
made a fair and reasonable  decision based on the medical  evidence  available  to it.
I said private treatment isnt covered under Miss Cs policy  and URV made her aware of 
this. Miss C chose to have conservative treatment, as was her right, but I said I didnt 
think URV  is responsible  for the costs of this. Miss C had the option of moving to a 
public hospital  to have surgery and, for the reasons Id already explained, I didnt think 
this was an unsuitable option for her. 
Overall, I said I thought  URVs offer was fair and I thought  no further compensation was 
warranted in the circumstances. 
the responses to my provisional  decision
URV responded and said it accepted my provisional  decision.
Miss C also responded  to my provisional  decision. In summary  she said: 
she was offered  the option  of surgery or conservative treatment and was told both 
carried risks, but neither was recommended above the other by the hospital;
the private  hospital doctors contacted the public hospital, and were  told there were no 
available beds  for Miss C, but a bed would  be found within five days if she opted for surgery;
URV didnt take Miss Cs past medical  history into account  and didnt make  a decision 
which was in her best interest  she disputes  that the fracture  needed a surgical  fixture; and
she maintained surgery shouldnt be carried out after five days. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of the response.
Miss C said she was offered the option  of surgery or conservative  treatment.  I can see thats 
what happened, but this offer was made  by a private hospital. And as Ive explained, 
Miss Cs policy  doesnt cover private  treatment.
Ref: DRN25639264Miss C maintains the public hospital had said there  wouldnt be a bed available for her for 
five days. As I said in my provisional decision,  I think there was a misunderstanding  here.  
Ive seen email evidence from the public hospital stating that it was able to admit Miss C if 
she had chosen  to have surgery. 
Having considered all that Miss C has said, Im still of the opinion  that URVs decision was 
fair based on the medical evidence it received. URV was provided  with a letter from Doctor T 
of the private  hospital which stated: This fracture will need a surgical  fixation (Dynamic Hip 
Screw).. And as this was a diagnosis supplied by a medical  professional who had 
personally examined Miss C following her fall, I think its reasonable that URV placed  
reliance on it. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  although I accept it would have been beneficial  for the 
surgery to have taken  place as soon as possible,  Ive been provided with no evidence  which  
persuades me that surgery couldnt  be carried out after five days. 
 
The points Miss C has raised havent changed  my mind, so I see no reason to depart  from 
the conclusions  set out in my provisional  decision and summarised  above.  
my final decision
Union Reiseversicherung  AG has made  an offer to pay £5,201.16. I conclude  that this offer 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that Union Reiseversicherung 
AG should pay Miss C £5,201.16 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2563926