K820x#14complaint
Ms W complained because The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland rejected her 
application to re-mortgage a buy-to-let  property.
She wants Bank of Ireland to:
-refund  her valuation  fee; and
-pay her three times the valuation fee as compensation; and 
-approve the mortgage she applied for.
background
In 2005, Ms W took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Bank of Ireland,  to remortgage an existing 
buy-to-let mortgage  elsewhere. 
In November 2017, Ms W contacted Bank  of Ireland to discuss  borrowing an extra £173,499. 
This was to repay  the balance  on a different buy-to-let  mortgage she had with another  
lender. 
Bank of Ireland  conducted an initial fact finding,  and issued a mortgage illustration to Ms W 
on 6 December. Including  the borrowing she already had with Bank of Ireland, the total over 
her three properties would be £428,117,  excluding fees. The covering letter  said:  This 
mortgage has been agreed  in principle subject to satisfactory  credit  scoring,  affordability  
checks, underwriter assessment and (if applicable) valuation of the property.  Ms W told 
Bank of Ireland  she wanted to go ahead.
Bank of Ireland  assessed the application. It asked for more information,  including details of 
the buy-to-let  mortgage  which she wanted to remortgage from another lender, and full details  
of all the mortgages she had.
On 10 January 2018, Bank of Ireland declined Ms Ws application. It noted that Ms Ws 
existing buy-to-let mortgage elsewhere  wouldnt be fully paid off with the extra  money Ms W 
had requested from Bank of Ireland. So shed have four buy-to-let mortgages,  and more than 
three would count as being a portfolio landlord. Bank of Ireland didnt lend to portfolio 
landlords.
Bank of Ireland  did add that if Ms W fully paid off her mortgage with the other lender at the 
same time, it could go ahead, subject to valuation.  Ms Ws solicitor would have to confirm  
that the other buy-to-let mortgage  had been  fully paid off.
Ms W replied that shed pay off the other mortgage  in full at the time of taking out the new 
mortgage. So Bank of Ireland reinstated the application. Ms W paid the £890 valuation  fee, 
and the surveyor  carried out the valuation.
But there were problems with the valuation. The surveyor gave the property a nil valuation  
and a nil rental value, and commented that:
Due  to the number of bedrooms and the propertys  layout  this type of property could be 
classed as a HMO [House in Multiple  Occupation] and these types of property fall outside 
the banks normal  lending criteria. From speaking  to a number of local estate agents, 
demand for this type of property  will be from sharers and not a family basis.
Ref: DRN25999742Bank of Ireland  asked Ms W for evidence of the current  tenancy agreement she had on the 
property, and evidence  of the rent. She sent this information, and Bank  of Ireland asked the 
surveyor for more information.  
The surveyor sent more  detailed comments,  as a result of which. Bank of Ireland rejected  
Ms Ws application  on 29 January 2018.  The bank told Ms W what  the surveyor had said. 
Hed commented that because of its location  the property would be extremely  difficult to sell, 
with little or no demand for owner  occupation.  The surveyor had spoken  to the estate agent 
who had previously let the property, and theyd told him theyd been very lucky to let out the 
property to one person  for such a high rent  because  there was no demand for families  or 
single people for that type of property  or level of rent. 
The estate  agent  had also told the surveyor they were remarketing the property, and 
expected to let it to 5 or 6 sharers. The surveyor spoke to other local letting agents, who 
confirmed there wasnt any demand for families or single tenants  for that type of property.
The surveyor informed Bank of Ireland that if the property were  to be let to 5 or 6 sharers, it 
would be a licensable HMO. But the property  didnt appear to comply with current  HMO 
regulations, so it couldnt properly be let to 5 or more people.  The local authority also 
operated its own licensing  scheme for 3 or more people  and the property didnt appear to 
comply with those requirements either.
Ms W raised  a number of questions, including whether Bank of Ireland would lend if she 
proved that shed  let the property to non-HMO tenants for the last four years.  She asked if 
the bank would take the security of another unencumbered property which she owned.  And 
she said shed previously  bought it at auction and had had work done, so she thought Bank  
of Ireland should lend to her. Bank of Ireland said it wouldnt consider any additional lending 
on the property  which had been valued, nor would it consider  any new buy-to-let mortgage.  
Ms W complained.
Bank of Irelands  final response set out what had happened. It pointed to the HMO issue,  
and what the surveyor had said. The bank also said its own underwriter had made separate  
enquiries with local letting agents,  and had been  told the property  would be difficult  to rent if 
Ms Ws current tenant left, and that the present rent was too high in the current climate. 
Bank of Ireland  pointed out that the bank could use its commercial judgement to decide  the 
basis on which it lent funds. It pointed out that it used its commercial judgement when 
deciding whether or not to lend.  And it refused Ms Ws request to refund the valuation  fee, 
because the valuation had taken place.
Ms W wasnt satisfied  and complained  to this service. She said she believed  the decision 
was made  on grounds other than economic ones. She said she had other properties which  
shed offered as security,  which Bank of Ireland had declined, despite the fact she had 
substantial equity and an excellent repayment history. She said Bank of Ireland shouldnt  
have encouraged her application if her properties  didnt  fit their profile, and she didnt believe 
the bank was open about its reasons for declining  her application.
Ms W said Bank of Ireland should  refund her approximately  £1,000 for the valuation fee, and 
pay her three times this sum because  of damage  to her feelings. She said the bank should 
also grant her the loan shed applied for.
Ref: DRN25999743The adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. He explained that Bank of Irelands criteria 
stated that an applicant could only have a maximum of three  buy-to-let properties at 
completion  and Ms W would have  had four. Although Ms W had said the bank shouldnt  
have encouraged her application, it had allowed the application to go ahead, once shed told 
them she would fully pay off the loan she was remortgaging. The adjudicator  noted  that Ms 
W disputed what the surveyor had told Bank  of Ireland. But he pointed  out that this service 
doesnt consider  complaints against  surveyors, and shed had to contact the Royal  Institution  
of Chartered Surveyors  (RICS) about  that.
The adjudicator didnt consider Bank  of Ireland  had to refund Ms Ws valuation fee, because  
the key facts illustration  had made  it clear  the valuation fee wasnt  refundable. An 
independent, qualified surveyor had carried out the valuation, and Bank of Ireland was 
entitled to rely on that.
Ms W wasnt satisfied.  She said the adjudicators findings were erroneous. She sent several 
emails with points she wanted  me to consider. I havent set out all Ms Ws points here, but 
these included her belief that the adjudicator had allowed Bank  of Ireland to hide behind a 
valuers incorrect findings. She disagreed  with the valuation, and the surveyors  views  about 
the property, because she said she had in-depth  knowledge of the market. 
Ms W also argued that the bank was aware  of the size and location of the property and 
should have declined her application  before  the valuation. She believed that the bank  could 
have requested a second valuation, or accepted  another of her properties  as security.  And 
she said that banks  cannot allow sexism  and racism to go unchallenged by shielding 
themselves with a valuers unsupported reports. She also said that when Bank  of Ireland 
had suggested  she should seek legal advice about her options,  this was a direct act of 
discrimination.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ms W has raised  multiple points in her 
submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked into all of those, but Ive commented 
on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Ms Ws disagreement  with the surveyors opinions
I note that Ms W disagrees  with the surveyors report  and opinions.  But this service doesnt 
consider complaints against surveyors. This complaint is about whether  or not the bank did 
anything wrong, and the banks responsibility in relation  to the survey  was to ensure that it 
used a qualified  surveyor.
 I can see from the valuation report that the surveyor was qualified with the appropriate  
professional body, the RICS. So Bank of Ireland did all that was required of it. It didnt have 
to ask a different surveyor to do a second valuation, just because Ms W told them their 
surveyor was wrong.    
Ms W has said that Bank of Ireland  hid behind a valuers incorrect findings. I find that this 
is incorrect. Bank of Ireland acted correctly in basing  its decision on the decision of a 
professionally-qualified surveyor.  
Ref: DRN25999744If Ms W wishes to complain about  the content  of the surveyors report and his professional  
competence, she should  contact the RICS. Its not something this service  can consider.
Bank of Irelands  rejection  of Ms Ws application
Bank of Ireland  was entitled to use its commercial judgment about whether  or not to lend 
additional funds  to Ms W. The surveyor expressed reservations about the future ability  of the 
property to be let within the banks lending  criteria, and Bank of Ireland was entitled  to rely 
on that. I note that in addition to the surveyors own reservations, other local estate agents 
were consulted and these also considered that the property would be unlikely to be let other  
than as an HMO. And the surveyor also considered that Ms Ws property wouldnt meet  
either the licensing criteria  for an HMO,  or for the local authoritys licensing scheme. Bank  of 
Ireland was entitled to decide  not to lend on a property which was outside its own lending 
criteria.
The fact that Ms W had been fortunate enough  to find a sole tenant in the past is irrelevant 
to Bank  of Irelands decision. It was the situation at that time and in the future which properly 
concerned the bank.   
The bank was also entitled to set its own lending criteria, including  the criterion not to lend to 
anyone with more  than three buy-to-let properties. This requirement was clearly stated on 
the banks website.
Ms W argues that Bank of Ireland should  have accepted another of her properties  as 
security instead of the unacceptable property. But banks are entitled to set their own lending  
criteria, and Bank of Ireland didnt have  to accept Ms Ws suggestion. 
Ms W also argues that Bank of Ireland was aware of the size and location  of the proposed  
property and should have declined her application  before valuation. I do not accept that 
Bank of Ireland  could be expected to have known full details about Ms Ws proposed 
property without taking  proper professional advice from a qualified  surveyor. The purpose of 
obtaining a surveyors  report is to obtain that professional advice, and I find that the bank 
acted properly in doing so.
And given  that Ms W has rejected the professional surveyors report as wrong, I think  its 
even more likely that she would have rejected any Bank of Ireland refusal which  had not 
been based on a proper  professional opinion. 
So I see no reason  why Bank of Ireland should  refund Ms Ws valuation fee. The fact that 
valuation fees are non-refundable once the inspection has been carried out is set out in the 
mortgage illustration  which  Bank  of Ireland  issued  to Ms W.
Ref: DRN25999745discrimination
Ive quoted above Ms Ws comment about  sexism  and racism, in her response to the 
adjudicators view. I have  seen  no evidence  to show that Ms W complained  formally to Bank 
of Ireland about sex discrimination and / or race discrimination in relation to this mortgage 
application. Any such complaint to Bank of Ireland should have set out full details of her 
grounds for complaint, so that it could be properly assessed under the Equality Act 2010. 
The evidence before me shows no such detailed  complaint.
As our website sets out, this service  can only consider any complaint if the consumer has 
given the bank an opportunity to put things right and issue a Final Response. Ive seen no 
evidence that Ms W did this. I also note that she didnt mention discrimination on her 
Complaint form to this service.
Because of these  factors, I dont have the jurisdiction  to consider Ms Ws recent complaint of 
sex and / or race discrimination.
Taking all these elements  into account,  I find that Bank of Ireland did nothing  wrong when  it 
decided not to lend more  money to Ms W. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2599974