K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss H complain that in 2012,  Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc unfairly increased the 
standard variable  rate they were paying on their mortgage.
background
In 2008, Mr M and Miss H took out a repayment mortgage with Bristol  & West Mortgages 
over a term of 26 years, though  the loan has since transferred  to Bank of Ireland. The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of 6.55% until 31 May 2011. The mortgage offer stated that 
after this date, the standard variable rate (SVR) would be applied to the mortgage,  which  
was 7.09% at the time. In June 2011 when Mr M and Miss Hs mortgage  moved  onto the 
SVR, it had reduced to 2.99%.
In March 2012, Bank of Ireland wrote to Mr M and Miss H to tell them  about  changes  they 
were making to the SVR later that year. The letter stated the following changes would be 
applied:
in June 2012, the SVR would increase from 2.99% to 3.99%
in September  2012, the SVR would increase from 3.99% to 4.49%
The letter also contained  a leaflet  which explained the reasons for the increase, and 
information about what Mr M and Miss H could do if they wanted  to apply for a different rate. 
Mr M and Miss H said they asked about  applying for a fixed  rate at the time, but this was 
higher than the SVR and so didnt  proceed.
In 2016, Mr M and Miss H complained to Bank  of Ireland, as they thought theyd  increased  
the SVR unfairly.  Bank of Ireland said theyd increased the SVR in line with the terms of the 
mortgage contract,  and they wrote  to Mr M and Miss H before the rate was increased  
explaining the reasons.
Mr M and Miss H werent  happy with this so brought their complaint to our service. They said 
they werent satisfied  with the reason Bank of Ireland gave for increasing the rate. Our 
investigator looked into things and explained  that, in her view, Bank of Ireland  hadnt acted 
unfairly when increasing the SVR. Mr M and Miss H disagreed so the complaints been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr M and Miss Hs mortgage  which they agreed to when they took it out, 
clearly set out what is meant by the term standard variable rate and the reasons why this 
might vary over the life of the mortgage.  The very nature of a variable rate means that it can 
go up as well as down,  and I note that it did in fact go down considerably between the time 
that Mr M and Miss H agreed to take out this mortgage, and when their mortgage actually 
moved onto the SVR.  
The leaflet accompanying Bank of Irelands letter sent in 2012  explained the reason for the 
increase. This stated:
Ref: DRN20893792The cost of funding mortgages has increased  significantly  for the Bank in recent  years. In 
addition, banks are being  required to hold more capital reserves,  as part of measures to 
protect the banking system from the type of scenarios seen during the banking crisis.
Considering the terms and conditions applicable to Mr M and Miss Hs mortgage, I note that 
two of the reasons given for a potential change in the SVR are: 
to reflect changes  in our cost of funds (i.e. the cost of borrowing the money we use in our 
mortgage lending  business), for example, caused  by changes in market  interest rates  or by 
other factors outside our control;
to ensure that the amount we receive from borrowers will enable  us to maintain a prudent  
level of reserves and to meet  any other  regulatory  requirements that apply to us;
Bank of Ireland  have provided  the Financial Ombudsman Service with information about  the 
reasons why they needed to raise  the SVR at this time. This information is commercially  
sensitive and so I wont go into detail about it here  as our rules allow  us to receive 
evidence in confidence where  appropriate to do so. But weve  carefully considered the 
information its provided and it shows that there  was a business need  to increase their funds 
at the time, and that the bank didnt go further  than it needed  to.
So Im satisfied that Bank of Ireland have increased the SVR in line with the terms of Mr M 
and Miss Hs mortgage, and were  entitled  to do so. Theyve done  so for a reason specified in 
Mr M and Miss Hs mortgage agreement. But what I need to consider is whether this was 
fair, taking  into account the circumstances at the time.
When Bank of Ireland  told Mr M and Miss H about  the changes  they were  making  to the 
SVR, they also gave information about what they could do if they wanted  to consider other 
options. They said they could choose a new Bank  of Ireland product, contact their broker  or 
Independent Financial Adviser to discuss their options, or use a nominated  broker  who 
would explore the mortgage market for them free of charge. I understand that Mr M and 
Miss H were  aware  of these options,  as theyve explained they looked into a new fixed  rate 
with Bank  of Ireland, but this was actually higher than the SVR at the time. Whilst I 
appreciate this may have been  the case, it doesnt mean they couldnt  look elsewhere  at 
other lenders to find a better rate.
The terms of Mr M and Miss Hs mortgage  explain that an Early Repayment Charge would 
be payable if the mortgage was redeemed  on or before  30 May 2011. The only charge 
payable on redemption after this date would be the lending fee of £195, if that payment had 
been deferred at the time the mortgage was taken out. This fee would have been payable at 
any time the lending had been fully redeemed, even  if the mortgage  ran to term  and so I 
dont consider it a charge or penalty for redeeming the mortgage early.  
I appreciate that Mr M and Miss H have said there are fees associated with moving lenders, 
and so they felt stuck  with Bank  of Ireland. Whilst I appreciate this may have been  the case, 
this was a decision  that Mr M and Miss H made themselves. Bank of Ireland had offered a 
free broker  service to look elsewhere  for other  deals, and there was nothing  in the mortgage 
contract that would have  prevented Mr M and Miss H from moving their mortgage to another 
lender, had they wished to.
Mr M and Miss H have said that theyre not satisfied with the reason Bank  of Ireland gave in 
2012 when they raised  the SVR.  They  feel the increase was for their own profits.  In the 
Ref: DRN20893793years leading up to 2012,  the regulatory landscape  was evolving in response  to the financial 
crisis. Banks were  required to ensure they were taking suitable  precautions  to protect  their 
customers from any future fluctuations  in the markets  and one of the ways they did this 
was by building up reserves. Considering  the mortgage market at the time, this was not 
uncommon, and when looking at the interest rates across the industry  at the time, Bank of 
Irelands rates were not significantly different to those offered by other lenders.
So considering everything,  Im not satisfied Bank  of Ireland were  acting  unfairly when they 
increased their SVR in 2012, and Im persuaded  Mr M and Miss H could have moved their 
mortgage to another lender at the time or since, should they have chosen to.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2019. 
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2089379