K821x#15complaint
Ms O says Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about an Account Card PPI policy Ms O took out in 1998. It was added to 
her account  when she applied for the card.
Marks and Spencer  originally sold Ms O the PPI but Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) have
accepted responsibility for the sale and so the complaint  has been set up against them.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Allianz in this decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Allianz  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Os complaint because:
On balance, it seems that Ms O wasnt eligible for the policy because shes told us that she 
was working for less than 16 hours  per week at the time of sale.  Ill explain my reasoning  
below. 
The main  documentary evidence from the sale is a copy of Ms Os card application form. On 
this form, its been recorded that Ms O was working  in retail. The form didnt have an option 
to select part time or full time employed.  
Ms O has told us that she was working  for 15 hours  per week  at the time of sale and has 
been consistent in her testimony to us. Allianz  told us that they spoke direct to Ms O in 
November 2018,  as part of their investigation  and she told them that she was working  for 
more than 16 hours per week  at the time of sale. When weve asked  Ms O what the reason  
for the discrepancy  was, shes told us that it was her confusion  about how best to express  
she was working part time that caused  the discrepancy. In my opinion  this is a satisfactory  
explanation. 
Ive also noted  that on the card application  Ms O has ticked  up to £5000 for her income. 
Although the minimum wage legislation didnt take effect until after Ms O took out the PPI, 
when Ive considered Ms Os employment sector (retail)  alongside her job title, this 
approximate gross annual  income range does lend support to what  Ms O has said about 
working for less than 16 hours per week.
On balance, having carefully considered everything, I think  that its more likely  than not that 
Ms O was employed for less than 16 hours per week and wasnt  eligible for the PPI. This 
means the policy wasnt of any use to her.
Ref: DRN22318032I dont think Ms O wouldve  bought  the policy if shed realised she wasnt eligible. So, I think 
Ms O has lost out because of what Allianz  did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Allianzs comments,  including what it said about it was made  clear  on 
the application form that the insured person must  be working more than sixteen hours  per 
week to be eligible for the policy, it was Ms Os responsibility to ensure she met the criteria. 
It was also Allianzs responsibility to draw this information to Ms Os attention in a sufficiently 
prominent way. 
The information about the employment eligibility that Ms O likely would have had access to 
at the point of sale was in the third line of a block of text; 16  hours  + per week. I think 
its quite possible that this section could quite  easily be overlooked  when Ms O was 
completing the application form. 
Underneath this it states if you are not eligible, you may nominate  your spouse/partner.     
Ms O wrote her own name as the insured person - which  supports that she wasnt  aware 
that she wasnt eligible.
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Allianz should put Ms O in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Allianz should find out how much  Ms O would have owed when she closed  her card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Allianz should then refund  the difference between what Ms O owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms O made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Allianz can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Allianz should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Ms O would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Allianz works  out what Ms O would  have  owed  each month without PPI 
 Ms O paid more than enough to clear her balance; Allianz  should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Ms O paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Ms O wouldve  owed Allianz  something  on her account.  The interest rate should  
be 8% a year.
D.Allianz should tell Ms O what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Allianz  to take off tax from this interest. Allianz must give Ms O a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN22318033If the lender has already repaid  any commission amount to Ms O that relates to this PPI sale, that sum can be 
deducted by Allianz  from the redress shown above
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Os complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc 
to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2231803