K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (trading  as Tesco Bank) wrongly treated one 
of his transactions on his credit card account as a cash transaction.
background
Mr J bought a service plan online and paid for it in full with his credit  card.  Tesco Bank  said 
this was a cash  transaction and applied a handling  fee and charged him interest  on it in line 
with its terms  and conditions.
When Mr J complained to Tesco Bank  it said itd been  told by the merchant this was a 
finance plan and so it came  under  the list of transactions it considers to be cash  
transactions. Mr J asked the merchant for confirmation this wasnt  a finance  plan.  It sent him 
written confirmation that the transaction was a one off payment  and that there wasnt  any 
finance plan. Mr J forwarded that evidence  to Tesco Bank. But it didnt change  its view on 
the nature  of the transaction. 
Our investigator recommended Mr Js complaint should be upheld. She said it was clear  
from the evidence  Mr J had sent us that there wasnt a finance plan. So she recommended  
Tesco Bank should refund the transaction handling  fee and any interest  itd applied to the 
account as a result of that fee. She also thought the bank  should pay Mr J £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience itd caused him.
Tesco didnt  agree that the evidence Mr J had obtained from the merchant was clear and 
thought it suggested there  was a finance plan in place. So our investigator contacted the 
merchant who confirmed  to her that there  wasnt any finance  agreement and that Mr J had 
paid for a service  plan in full. She sent that to Tesco Bank for its comments but it didnt  
respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for very similar reasons.
Tesco Bank said the merchant sent it information  that this transaction  was for a finance plan 
and so it would incur a handling fee. But the merchant  confirmed  to Mr J and to this Service 
that this was a one off payment and wasnt connected to any finance agreement. So I agree 
with our investigator that Tesco  Bank  should refund  the handling fee and any interest its 
charged on it. And it should  pay Mr J £50 for the inconvenience its caused him.
Ref: DRN21487152my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
must:
Refund Mr J the handling  fee and any interest  its charged on it and
Pay Mr J £50 compensation for the inconvenience its caused  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148715