K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mrs A. FICL didnt actually sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs A was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.   
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs A signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, and I can see that 
Mrs A has signed in the box to say she wanted  this cover. So I think  Mrs A will have 
known that she had a choice even  if now, so many years later,  she doesnt remember 
that. 
 It doesnt seem that FICL recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Mrs As individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs A to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However FICL did need  to give Mrs A clear  and fair information, so she could make an 
informed choice.  And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs A. So Ive thought about  whether  better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs As circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to her decision to take the PPI. I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI 
could have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have 
been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy  pay. Also its not clear  she 
had many alternative means to pay her living expenses and credit  account for long, if 
she lost her income; and even  if she did, she could have kept that in reserve for longer. 
So the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful.  Also it doesnt look like shed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Ref: DRN24182902Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2418290