K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 2001.  They  were  sold the PPI at the 
same time in connection with this mortgage.
The monthly benefit of the policy was split equally between Mr and Mrs J. The policy would  
have paid out for up to 24 months if Mr and/or Mrs J were off work sick or lost their jobs.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Js complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs J didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Js case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs J will be disappointed with this outcome but it is of course for Mr and Mrs J to decide 
whether to accept  or reject my decision. I will now explain why Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr and Mrs J were eligible  under the policy. Based on Mr 
and Mrs Js age, employment  and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied they would 
have been eligible.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs J that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to the account.  Mr and Mrs J say they were first time 
buyers and were told they had to take PPI to get the mortgage.  They  say Nationwide  took 
advantage of them and that they had no need for PPI. They  say they were  pressured into 
taking PPI.
Of course I cant  know for sure what took place during  the sale.  So Ive thought  about 
everything Mr and Mrs J and Nationwide have told us and looked  to the documents  from the 
time of the sale to help me decide  what is more likely to have happened.
In particular Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form and a copy  of the PPI 
application form Mr and Mr J completed at the time of the sale.  The mortgage application 
form had a separate section for PPI and provided equally clear  options to either get more 
information on PPI or refuse PPI. I can see that the option to get more  details  about  PPI was 
selected. So I think it would have been  clear  from this that PPI wasnt  a requirement. 
Similarly theres nothing in the PPI application  Mr and Mrs J completed  which  would suggest 
they had to take PPI. I can also see on this form that Mr and Mrs J chose their level of cover  
and how long they wanted the PPI to pay out for. They both signed this form. 
Ref: DRN21188352Ive also seen a call note from November 2001  which shows  Mrs J called Nationwide  to ask 
about PPI and to get a quote. Nationwide then sent Mr and Mrs J the quote and also again 
made it clear  in this quotation that PPI wasnt compulsory.
So while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs J have  told us, based on the evidence available  to 
me I think its more likely that the PPI was presented as optional  and was added to the 
account because  Mr and Mrs J chose  to take it out. And I havent sufficient evidence  to 
conclude that Mr and Mrs J were  pressured into taking PPI.
Nationwide say they didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs J. And I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest otherwise. This means Nationwide  didnt have to take steps to check  
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs J. So for example, they didnt  need  to ask Mr and Mrs J 
about (or take into account) their existing repayment provisions. 
But they did have  to provide Mr and Mrs J with clear information so that they could make an 
informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, they should have drawn Mr 
and Mrs Js attention  to the costs, benefits and main exclusions/restrictions in the policy.
As mentioned above Mr and Mrs J were provided  with a quote  for the PPI policy.  This wasnt  
far from the actual cost of the policy.  So I think Mr and Mrs J would have been aware roughly 
how much  the policy would cost. And I havent  seen  any evidence which suggests the PPI 
was unaffordable to Mr and Mrs J at the time of the sale.
But its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr and Mrs J all the information  as they should have 
the main exclusions  in the policy.  This in itself doesnt mean PPI was mis-sold  as I have to 
go on and consider whether better  information would have put them  off taking PPI. 
I dont think knowing about  the exclusions would have put Mr and Mrs J off taking the policy 
out as it doesnt  seem  that Mr and Mrs J were affected by the main  exclusions/restrictions  in 
the policy which would have made  it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the 
policy if the need arose.
I also note what Mr and Mrs J have told us about their employee  benefits and savings. But 
the PPI was protecting a valuable asset  and would  have paid out in addition  to the savings 
as well as Mr and Mrs Js existing employee benefits and for a much longer period of time 
than the employee  benefits.  
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  Nationwide  mis-sold Mr and   
Mrs J this PPI policy.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr and Mrs J some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Js mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Nationwide doesnt  need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs J paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Nationwide  Building Society.
Ref: DRN21188353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2118835