K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that she was mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  on 
a store  card taken  in 2004. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. As FICL  didnt agree, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
The policy was taken  out by Mrs C when she applied for a store card by filling  in a leaflet 
while in store. FICL has said that no advice was given to Mrs C about the policy so the PPI 
wasnt recommended.  Mrs C agrees.  
As FICL didn't recommend the PPI to Mrs C, it didn't have to check  that policy was right for 
her. That was for her to decide. But FICL  did need to given Mrs C clear enough information a 
for her to made the decision  that the policy was right for her. 
The policy cost was £1.50 for every £100 Mrs C owed on her store card.  The policy  would 
have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month  if Mrs C couldnt work 
because of an accident, sickness or she lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  as 
well as price and purchase protection. 
As the policy was taken  out in store, I cant know for sure what  was said to Mrs C. So I 
havent any evidence  to show that Mrs C was given  clear enough information about the cost 
of the policy  in real terms. 
FICL may have explained the amount Mrs C would have to pay for every  £1 she spent on 
her card, as that is quoted in the application  form. But I dont know if it explained that interest 
would be charged  on those premiums if there was an outstanding balance  or that she would 
need to keep paying the premiums during a claim. So I dont think  its likely  Mrs C would 
have been made aware of the true and ongoing cost of the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs C. She has told us that if she was too unwell to work 
she would  have received employee  benefits of six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay. I realise the benefit of the policy was relatively high at 15%, but so was the cost. 
And given  what we know about  the employee benefits Mrs C would have been likely to 
receive as a result of her role, I dont  think Mrs C would have thought  the policy  was value 
for money  if she had fully understood  the costs.  
Ref: DRN20916742FICL has said that it doesnt think Mrs C would  have got the level of sick pay she says she 
did. And I appreciate  that Mrs C had only been in her then current role for a few months. But 
Mrs C has told us that her previous role was the same as then her current role, with similar 
benefits and there werent any gaps in her employment. 
So, from what I know about the job and benefits in the sector Mrs C was employed in at the 
time of her taking the policy,I think its likely she would have received the level of sick pay 
that she says she received. And I havent seen any reason to doubt what Mrs C has said 
about her sick pay. 
So overall, taking  everything into account, I dont think  that FICL gave clear  enough  
information to Mrs C to enable her to decide if the policy was right for her. And if it had, I 
dont think she would  have taken the policy out as I dont think  she would have considered  it 
value for money.  
So I think Mrs C has lost out as a result of what FICL did wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs C in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs C would  have  owed  when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year .
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs C would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs C would 
have owed FICL  something  on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN20916743my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  compensate Mrs C as Ive explained above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2091674