K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI at the same  time as arranging their mortgage  in January 
2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R say that the PPI was not requested by them and was just included as part of 
the mortgage package.
Ive seen the mortgage application form that has a separate section for PPI. It explains  that 
the cover  is free for 12 months. Boxes have been ticked  to select  unemployment cover only,  
to have a benefit period of 12 months  with a 30 day excess and to split the benefit 50/50  
between the couple. There were also boxes  that could be ticked if cover  wasnt required. It 
seems to me that there must have been  some discussion about the policy for the level of 
cover to be arranged as it was. If, as suggested  by Mr and Mrs R, the policy  was added 
without their knowledge or consent,  I might have  expected them to end up with fuller, more  
expensive insurance  that also covered them for accident and sickness.
Mr and Mrs R say that their mind set was primarily on getting the mortgage and the free offer 
of PPI was a distraction. I accept that the couples priority would have been to arrange  the 
mortgage itself.  But that doesnt necessarily mean that they werent aware of the policy. 
From the evidence Ive seen, I think its most  likely that the PPI was presented as optional.  
And the wording and layout of the paperwork reinforces that.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs Rs 
recollection of events has faded. On balance I think that they decided to take out the policy,  
knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing  so.
Nationwide didnt advise  Mr and Mrs R to buy the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met 
their needs.  But it did need to give them enough information for them  to make  an informed 
choice about whether  or not the policy was right for them.
Mr and Mrs R would  both have received reasonably generous sick pay from their jobs.  But it 
seems they took this into account when arranging the policy as they didnt take out cover for 
accident and sickness. As previously  mentioned,  they chose unemployment cover only.
Ref: DRN28141292The couple  said they had some savings.  But having the policy  would have allowed them to 
retain these  or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult  time.
Mr R has recently  mentioned that he had a main job, but also did some self-employed work  
in addition to that (although he didnt declare this in the Income section of the mortgage 
application form). So he has queried  whether he was eligible for the policy because of his 
self-employment. Looking  at the policy  terms, I can see that Mr Rs self-employment didnt 
make him ineligible. And, from what I know about Mr Rs circumstances  at the time, he 
would have been able to claim  for unemployment  if he had lost his main  job.
Overall I think  that Mr and Mrs R had a need for the policy and could  have benefitted from it. 
A mortgage is a large financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be significant. So it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs R had an interest in 
protecting their repayments.
In regard to cost, the mortgage application form makes it clear that the policy  was free for 12 
months and I think that Mr and Mrs R would have  understood that. Thereafter Mr and Mrs R 
would have received annual insurance  schedules that stated the cost and the cancellation 
rights.
Its possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs R werent  affected by 
any of those things.  As I think  they had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  them to change  their minds.
This means  that Nationwide doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
R. But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to them because: 
When the policy was sold,  Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN28141293my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814129