K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2005. Mr C says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. The PPI was sold 
during a telephone call when  Mr C called  Capital One to activate his replacement  card.  
Although Capital One doesnt have a call recording of the sale, it has provided us with a 
copy of the call script that was used at the time of sale. This call script  would have  
instructed the representative to make it clear  to Mr C that the PPI was optional and that 
his consent was obtained before PPI was applied to the account. I havent  seen sufficient 
evidence to suggest that the representative  didnt follow the script.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr C got the information  he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr C, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what hes said about being able to 
use his employee  benefits  to meet  the repayments.  But these points dont  change  my 
decision. Mr C has told us he would  have received 6 months full pay followed by six months 
half pay from his employer if he was off work sick. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and would have been particularly useful when Mr C employee  sick pay 
Ref: DRN20865572reduced to half after six months. The policy would also have paid out for up to 12 months if 
Mr C lost his job. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2086557