K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has declined  their claim for 
hospice at home care for Mr Z under their private  medical insurance policy (PMI).
Background
Mr and Mrs Z have  had private medical insurance  with AXA for many  years.  In June 2018 
Mr Z was diagnosed with cancer in his colon  and kidneys. Sadly his condition was 
considered inoperable and he was discharged home. Mr and Mrs Z made  a claim for 
hospice at home care which  was declined by AXA. 
Mr and Mrs Z raised a complaint with AXA who werent prepared  to change their decision.
Mr and Mrs Z say that there is no hospice  at home service in their area.  So theyve had to 
employ private carers,  who provide the end of life palliative care,  which a hospice  at home 
service would have  provided, if it was available. As their policy  would cover a donation of 
£100 a night to a hospice if Mr Z was having  end of life care, or a donation to the service  
providing hospice at home care, they think AXA should make  £100 a night contribution 
toward the cost of Mr Zs private  carers.
AXA have told Mr and Mrs Z their policy doesnt cover the cost of private  carers,  even where  
hospice at home care isnt available. They said the membership handbook clearly  sets out 
what the policy covers after a cancer  diagnosis has been made. And it doesnt  cover the cost 
of private care.  AXA have also said they believe, from the details of his care 
Mr and Mrs Z have  provided that some  of the care is required as a result  of his pre-existing 
aphasia.  
Mr and Mrs Z complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case  and said it 
had been confirmed that theres no hospice  at home  provision for end of life care where
Mr Z lives. Because of this Mr and Mrs Z had to appoint  private  carers.  She said didnt think 
it was fair for AXA to say this doesnt  meet the policy definition,  as hospice  at home care isnt 
available in their area.  She said, if it was, she had no reason to believe 
Mr and Mrs Z wouldnt accept it, rather than relying on private carers.  So she didnt think  it 
was fair for AXA to decline  the claim on the basis that they have to pay for private  carers.
She also considered  when AXA would  pay the £100  donation. While  this isnt set out in the 
policy she said AXA had told us the benefit would be considered if a customer  was receiving 
end of life care, such as drug changes, pain relief  and making  them comfortable. And it 
would also consider making the donation if a service was providing hospice at home  care. 
But not if carers  were providing social  and domestic  care, such as washing and dressing the 
customer.
From the details that had been  provided  of the care Mr Z was receiving she thought a 
significant proportion  of his care would  normally be covered by the benefit. And she said she 
didnt accept AXAs argument that Mr Z needed  a significant amount of his care as a result 
of his stroke. She accepted what Mrs Z said, that before his cancer diagnosis she was able 
to care for her husband herself,  and its only since that diagnosis  his needs have increased  
and he now needs  palliative  care.
Although AXA have said some of the treatment provided by Mr Zs carers is excluded  under 
other policy definitions,  our investigator didnt think it was fair to exclude this, as the care 
Ref: DRN25150492falls under what would usually  be payable  under  the hospice at home benefit. And if this 
service was available in Mr Zs area hed be able to claim  under it.
So she didnt think AXA had reasonably declined the claim. And to put things right she said 
AXA should  pay Mr and Mrs Zs the contribution of £100 per night  plus interest.
AXA didnt accept  our investigators opinion so the case has come  to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whether AXA have acted fairly or not, I have to consider the policy  terms and 
conditions and relevant industry guidelines. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines are set out in the Insurance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS). This says that an insurer must treat customers  fairly  when  handling 
claims and must not unreasonably reject  a claim.
And the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Zs policy say:-
Palliative and end of life care Am I covered?
Donation to hospice where you are having   £100 a night
end of life care, or a donation to a service
providing hospice at home care.
When Mr Z was discharged from hospital in July 2018 he was referred to a clinical  nurse 
specialist in palliative  care for specialist palliative  support. She confirmed  in December 2018 
that Mrs Z has employed private  carers to meet his palliative  care needs at home since 
July 2018. And in February 2019  the same  clinical  nurse specialist confirmed there  is no 
hospice at home provision  for end of life care in Mr Zs home catchment area. So they had to 
employ private carers  to meet  his palliative care needs at home.
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that if hospice at home care was available  in 
Mr and Mrs Zs area they wouldnt be using this service,  rather  than paying for private 
carers. So it doesnt  seem fair that if theyre paying  carers to provide this care,  AXA wont  
agree to offer the payment of £100  a night  which would be available  towards hospice at 
home care.
AXA have said that Mr Z needed care before  his cancer diagnosis,  as a result of his earlier  
stroke. Mrs Z has told us that before his diagnosis she was able to manage her husbands  
care and this largely consisted of help with washing  and dressing. Shes told us that they 
now employ a trained  nurse who works six days a week, another  carer who works one day a 
week and occasionally  a carer who covers one or two nights. Shes  provided  details of the 
duties carried out by the carers which include - transfers in and out of bed, preparation of 
special drinks and soft food, assistance  with eating  and drinking as Mr Z now struggles to 
swallow, treatment of leg ulcers due to immobility and weakness and treatment of infections  
and wounds. Mrs Z has also told us that due to constant infections her husband can be 
confused and irrational and this behaviour  has to be managed by the carers.  
Ref: DRN25150493Based on the information Mr and Mrs Z have provided I think  the private carers are providing  
the same  care as a hospice at home service would  provide. So I dont think its reasonable 
for AXA to decline  Mr and Mrs Zs claim on the basis that they have to pay for private carers.
AXA have said that some of the Mr Zs palliative care needs are due to his stroke and some 
of the care provided  is excluded under the policy. I accept that this may be so, but Mrs Z was 
able to manage her husbands care before his cancer diagnosis.  And I dont think its fair to 
deny the claim on this basis, as Im satisfied that most of the care he now receives is linked 
to his cancer diagnosis  and would  usually be payable under  the hospice  at home benefit. 
Mrs Z has provided  evidence of the payments  shes been making  to the carers.  As Im 
considering whether AXA should pay Mr and Mrs Z the contribution  of £100 a night, I dont 
think its necessary for Mr and Mrs Z to provide detailed  and receipted  invoices for the costs  
of care,  as Im not asking  AXA to pay for that care. Im satisfied from the evidence thats 
been provided that Mr and Mrs Z are paying for ongoing care.  And Im satisfied that from his 
diagnosis and discharge from hospital on 1 July 2018 Mr Z has received this care.
So I dont  think AXA have acted  fairly  and reasonably in declining  Mr and Mrs Zs complaint. 
And to put things  right I require them to pay Mr and Mrs Z the contribution of £100 per night  
from the date he was discharged from hospital  in July 2018, plus simple interest at 8% on 
each payment from when  it should have been  paid,  until the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Zs complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  and to put things right I require them to pay 
Mr and Mrs Z the contribution of £100 per night from the date he was discharged  from 
hospital in July 2018, plus simple  interest at 8% on each payment from when it should have 
been paid, until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 September 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515049