K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the handling  of her account by Caversham Finance  Limited  (CFL) 
trading as Brighthouse.
background
Miss M says in August 2018  she was the victim  of a fraud involving money  being  taken  from 
her bank account. And she says this led to her going into arrears  with her payments  to CFL.
Miss M also says she contacted CFL about the matter and it agreed to rewrite her debt, but 
then it didnt do so. She says she was told by the store manager that if she made six 
consecutive payments it would look to rewrite her account, but it then didnt.  And she says 
CFLs broken every agreement shes put in place with it.
CFL says Miss Ms had three  agreements  with it in recent years and two have been 
terminated due to non-payment,  with a combined  remaining  balance  of £616.80. It says Miss 
Ms kept the relevant items and its unlikely it will recover this debt. 
CFL also says Miss M has had several rewrites on her account, with the most recent one 
taking place on 26 May 2018.  It says on this occasion the term of her agreements  was 
extended to allow her to clear her arrears balance. It says Miss M was also given the option  
to downgrade  her items  for similar cheaper items, but she didnt wish to do so. And it says it 
operates a rent to own service, under which customers  are able to terminate their 
agreements at any point  by returning their items  and not have to make  any further payments. 
It says Miss M was also given  this option,  but she declined it.
In addition, CFL says Miss M made several  payment arrangements  with it, but she either  
cancelled them or didnt fulfil them. It says on 27 October 2018 she told it she would visit the 
store on 3 November to rewrite her account,  but she didnt show up. And it says shes  
currently in arrears on her one remaining active agreement and she hasnt made a payment 
since 17 October 2018. 
So, CFL says its given all the assistance it can to Miss M and exhausted  all forbearance 
options available to her and it doesnt  believe her complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator thought Miss Ms complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss M disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. So, the matters  been referred to me to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the history  of dealings between Miss M and CFL over a period of around  three  
and a half years between June 2015  and November 2018. 
Ref: DRN28320612The information Ive seen indicates  CFL agreed to make payment  arrangements for Miss Ms 
account on several occasions during this period,  but the information also indicates Miss M 
either cancelled  them or didnt  fulfil their terms.
I understand CFL also gave Miss M the option to downgrade her items for similar cheaper 
items, but she didnt  wish to do so. And it appears  CFL additionally gave her the option to 
terminate her agreement  by returning  her items  without needing  to make any further  
payments. But, it appears she declined this option.
Taking into account the entire course  of dealings between the parties  over the period Ive 
referred to, Im satisfied  from what  Ive seen that CFLs handling of Miss Ms account was 
reasonable.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold her complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against  Caversham Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 August 2019.                      
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2832061