K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mrs T  
says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading  as Egg, mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs T says she wasnt made aware she could  opt out for the policy.  But Ive seen screen 
shots of the online application  process  Canada Square says Mrs T wouldve seen and 
completed. Ive not seen any reason to doubt  that these screen shots are copies the screens  
Mrs T wouldve seen,  so Ive relied on these  in my decision. These  show Mrs T wouldve had 
to select either yes or no for the PPI before  submitting her application. Canada Square  
says the PPI wouldve only been  added  to her account if shed ticked  the yes option online, 
and she wouldnt have  been able to progress with her application without making a selection  
here.
The online applications record which recorded  what Mrs T entered online suggests that she 
chose the yes option to have PPI added to her account. So based on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Canada Square made  it clear  that the PPI was optional,  and she chose to take it 
out.
Mrs T says she was advised to take out the policy. As this was an internet  sale and theres 
no evidence Mrs T spoke  to anyone while completing the application  process, I think  its 
likely this was a non-advised  sale. So as Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T 
it didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs T got 
the information she needed  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs T says she had sufficient other  means  at the time so she wouldnt have had any 
difficulty making her repayments. However,  for £0.74 per £100  of outstanding balance the 
PPI wouldve  covered 10% of her outstanding monthly balance, up to a maximum of £1,500,  
for up to 12 months. And this wouldve paid out in addition to her sick pay, meaning these 
funds wouldve been free to use for other expenses. Mrs T also said she had life cover  and 
critical illness cover which she couldve used. But these policies wouldve covered her for 
different eventualities  than the PPI. So I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for Mrs T, 
especially when her sick pay reduced to half, and I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN23987782It follows then that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. This means Canada Square  doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. But Canada Square has paid back some  
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because:
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because Canada  Square didnt 
tell Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept
or reject my decision before 23 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2398778