K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that they didnt  receive a bonus  when  they switched accounts to 
Nationwide Building  Society.
background
In December 2018 Mr and Mrs M decided to switch their accounts from a high street bank to 
Nationwide.
On 21 December 2018 Mrs M completed  an online  switch form and recommended Mr M. On 
the same  day, Mr M completed an online switch form and recommended Mrs M. Both Mr 
and Mrs M were expecting to benefit  from the refer a friend  incentive  payment offered by 
Nationwide. But they didnt receive  the payment so they queried this with Nationwide.
Nationwide said Mr and Mrs M hadnt completed  all of the online forms. In March 2019  Mr 
and Mrs M resubmitted the forms, this time fully completed.  One of the recommendations for 
an account was accepted  but the other  wasnt because Mr M had recommended Mrs M for a 
current account in his sole name.
Mr and Mrs M complained to Nationwide. In response Nationwide said the terms and 
conditions of the refer a friend promotion hadnt  been met and it didnt think it was at fault. It 
apologised to Mr and Mrs M for some possible miscommunication when they had sought 
advice in branch  and offered compensation of £50.
Mr and Mrs M complained to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and 
said that the payment hadnt  been  made  because  Mr and Mrs M hadnt completed the forms 
correctly.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree. They said Nationwide should have told them if the forms werent 
completed correctly. They  also said that the final response letter contained inaccuracies and 
showed that the bank  hadnt done enough to help.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs M needed to do to switch accounts and claim the refer a 
friend payment.
The forms require both parts to be completed,  including  the refer a  friend part. Mr and Mrs 
M were  assisted in branch with this part of the form. The next part of the process requires  Mr 
and Mrs M to reply to an email  and enter  a switch code.
Im aware that Mr M entered the wrong  switch code  he entered a code  which had the effect  
of referring Mrs M for his sole account. I understand that what  Mr M intended to do was to 
refer Mrs M for the joint account. But this isnt what he did.
I appreciate that online applications can be confusing  at times and its really unfortunate that 
Mr M entered the wrong code. However, ultimately  its the customers  responsibility to 
Ref: DRN25126682complete the application correctly and it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Nationwide  
responsible for Mr Ms error.
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel that the bank could  have  done more to help.  But online 
applications are an automated  process and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect the bank to 
check every  application  to make sure that customers have completed it correctly. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said the final response letter was inaccurate and that the bank didnt try 
to help. I dont  agree   in fact, I think the bank tried to help by highlighting to Mr and Mrs M 
that they were  still within the timeframe to remedy one of the applications. 
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account and whilst I appreciate  Mr and 
Mrs Ms disappointment, Im unable to say that Nationwide has made an error or acted 
unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2512668