K820x#14complaint
Ms S has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc misplaced her safety deposit box 
for several  years and hasnt compensated her sufficiently for the effect this had on her.
background
Ms S says she deposited  a safe custody  box containing jewellery worth between £19,000 
and £21,000 at one of NatWests branches in 2009.  In 2013 she went  to the branch to collect 
the box but the branch  staff told her they had no record of it. She re-visited  the branch on 
three more  occasions  but was given the same information.
Ms S says the fact the box had gone missing  caused arguments  with her husband which 
ultimately led to their divorce.  She says she then suffered financial difficulty which  she could 
have alleviated if shed  been able to sell some  of her jewellery.
In 2019 Ms S noticed  NatWest had debited her account with £10 for safe custody. She 
queried this payment and was told it was for her safety deposit box that had been  transferred 
to a branch in another part of the UK. She went to the other  branch  and was able to recover 
the box.
Ms S complained to NatWest and it paid her £1,250 compensation. She wasnt  satisfied with 
this and referred her complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
compensation NatWest  had paid to Ms S was fair in the circumstances. Ms S didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear the service Ms S received from NatWest in connection with her safety  deposit  box 
fell well below the standard  she was entitled to expect. NatWest has admitted this so I dont 
need to consider it any further. The question I have to decide is whether the sum of £1,250  
NatWest has paid to Ms S is sufficient to compensate her for the losses shes  suffered.
Ms S hasnt said there  was anything missing  from the box when she discovered its 
whereabouts so I dont  have to consider if she should be compensated for any lost items. 
Ive given careful consideration to her comments about her divorce  and financial difficulty.
Im surprised that Ms S doesnt  seem to have taken  the loss of the box any further with 
NatWest after it first went missing in 2014. Im also not persuaded that Ive seen enough 
evidence that would  enable me to reasonably conclude that the loss of the box led directly to 
Ms Ss divorce and financial difficulty.  I appreciate Ms S went through  a very difficult  time but 
I cant reasonably say NatWest should be held responsible for this or that it should have 
foreseen it would  happen.
Ref: DRN20579462Ms S suffered significant trouble and upset  as a result of NatWests errors but Im satisfied 
that £1,250 is a reasonable  amount  for her to receive in compensation for this. As NatWest  
has already paid this to Ms S Im not going to require it to do anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against National Westminster Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2057946