K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds (BUPA) refusal to pay for a claim 
under his private medical insurance (PMI) policy.
background
Mr C lives and works  abroad.  He has a global PMI policy with BUPA.
Mr C has osteoarthritis (arthritis) in his ankle. He asked BUPA to pay for hyaluronic acid 
(HA) injections to treat his condition. This is a treatment hed had in 2014 and 2015  under a 
previous PMI policy with a different provider and found it to be successful.
BUPA refused  to cover the cost of the treatment because it thought  it was experimental. It 
therefore said this wasnt covered by Mr Cs policy.  Mr C wasnt happy  with this so he made 
a complaint.
BUPA didnt  uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said that HA injections to the ankle havent been  
proved effective in clinical  trials and it doesnt cover experimental treatment. 
Mr C was unhappy with this and so he brought his complaint to our service. To put matters  
right, hed like BUPA  to confirm medical  cover for the HA injections and reimburse him for 
the treatment which  he has now paid for himself.  Hed also like BUPA to pay him £25,000 to 
compensate him for damages due to distress, loss of quality of life and a possible 
irrecoverable worsening of his condition.
An investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint  and she didnt uphold it. She thought  the use of 
HA injections to treat arthritis in the ankle hadnt been shown to be covered under the terms 
of the policy  Mr C held with BUPA. She noted BUPA had relied on the fact that neither the 
National Institute of Health and Care Excellence  (NICE) or Food  and Drug  Administration 
(FDA) supported this. She explained she hadnt seen any acceptable and current  clinical 
evidence in support  of using HA injections to treat arthritis in the ankle. And a consultant  
recommending a treatment isn't the same as there being acceptable current clinical  
evidence, as required by the terms of Mr Cs policy. 
The investigator also explained to Mr C that shed  look at matters again if he obtained written 
confirmation from his consultant abroad  that the treatment shouldnt be excluded under the 
experimental treatment  section of the policy. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He made a number of points including  the 
following:
-Hes not able to ask a consultant local to him to provide the information partly due to 
a language barrier as well as cost.  But also, he feels that the chance of him finding  
this information  abroad is unrealistic  if were unable  to find it in UK.
-Having had the HA injections, and paid for them himself, hes confirmed that theyve 
had the same results  as when  previously administered - his condition has materially  
improved. He questions  whether this is the evidence that BUPA need.
-BUPA has refused  treatment as recommended by three specialists and also failed to 
suggest any specialist  who can propose an alternative course  of treatment which  
would be approved by BUPA. 
Ref: DRN20385362The investigator explained these points didnt  change  her view. So the matter has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  whats  
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr C that I think the investigator has reached  the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr Cs policy  says it doesnt cover  experimental treatment which is defined as,
-We do not pay for any treatment or medicine which in our reasonable opinion is 
experimental based on acceptable current clinical evidence and practice
-We do not pay for any treatment or medicine which in our reasonable opinion is not 
effective based  on acceptable current clinical evidence and practice
-We do not pay for medicines and equipment  used for purposes  other  than those 
defined under their licence unless this has been pre-authorised
Acceptable current clinical evidence is defined in the policy  as, 
International medical and scientific evidence which include peer reviewed scientific 
studies published  in or accepted for publication by medical journals that meet  
internationally recognised requirements for scientific manuscripts.  This does  not 
include individual case reports,  studies of a small number of people, or clinical  trials 
which are not registered.
BUPA said HA injections are not a recognised  treatment for ankle arthritis  and, as a result, it 
falls into the exclusion  under the policy of being  experimental treatment. And so it declined 
Mr Cs claim.  
Ive looked at the evidence in order to decide  whether it was reasonable for BUPA to decline 
Mr Cs claim on this basis. 
Having done so, Im aware that BUPA has referred  to the fact that HA injections arent 
recommended for the treatment of arthritis  in the ankle by the NICE and they arent 
approved by the FDA either.
In contrast, I havent seen any evidence thatd  allow  me to reasonably or fairly say that the 
treatment isnt experimental or has been  shown to be effective based  on acceptable current  
clinical evidence. And I dont agree that the recommendation by a consultant  or medical  
professional for Mr C to have HA injections for the arthritis in his ankle - or that Mr C feels  his 
condition has materially improved now hes had them at his own cost - are sufficient  to do 
this, either.  
Ref: DRN20385363I appreciate that Mr C feels BUPA have failed to suggest a specialist who can propose a 
course of treatment which is approved by it. But I dont agree that the obligation is on BUPA  
to do this or find a consultant to say that the treatment isnt experimental.  I say this given  the 
body of evidence  in support of BUPA declining the claim on the basis that the treatment falls 
within the exclusion relating to experimental  treatment.
I appreciate that another PMI provider previously paid for this treatment for Mr C but that 
would have been under  the terms of a different policy and a different  insurer. And I havent 
seen anything which would allow  me to reasonably say that this affects BUPAs decision 
here. In the circumstances  Im not persuaded that BUPA  has treated Mr C unfairly  or 
contrary to the policy  terms in declining his claim. 
I know that Mr C says BUPA has now had the treatment but feels  the delay has possibly led 
to an irrecoverable  worsening  of his condition. Under the DISP rules  laid out in the FCA 
handbook - which can be found online - BUPA had eight weeks  to deal with the complaint. 
The eight weeks started once the complaint was made which was on 19 September 2017. 
This gave  BUPA a deadline of 14 November 2017 to respond. BUPA  issued its final 
response on the complaint on 16 October  2017   so this was within the time limits required.
As BUPA had already  told Mr C that his claim wouldnt be met in September,  I dont think it 
caused the delay in Mr C receiving treatment.  Mr C was entitled to go ahead with the 
treatment, at his own cost, as he eventually did. If BUPA had changed  its mind  at complaint 
stage, it couldve reimbursed him for the costs  of treatment.
So, while I sympathise with Mr Cs situation,  for the reasons  Ive set out above, I dont 
uphold his complaint in this matter.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with BUPA  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2038536