K820x#14complaint
Mr G says Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending  Stream) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr G had three loans with Lending  Stream between  April and June 2012. He borrowed 
£490, £315 and then £195. I understand the second  and third loans have not been  fully 
repaid.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Gs complaint but didnt think  Lending Stream  had lent to him 
irresponsibly. Mr G didnt agree, so the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Gs case. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr G could repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ive seen that Lending Stream  recorded  Mr Gs monthly income and expenditure before  
lending to him. He declared monthly  income of £1,650 and expenditure of between  £960 and 
£1,250  leaving him with an estimated disposable income each month  of £400-£690.
Lending Stream also says it carried  out credit checks, but has only provided  a credit score  
for each  loan rather than the full results of its checks.
Mr G has also not been able to provide much information from the time the loans were 
approved. Ive not seen bank statements or a credit history so have limited information  about 
his other  debts at the time he borrowed  from Lending Stream. I know he entered  into a debt 
management plan (DMP)  after taking out the loans but I dont think this provides much 
insight into what Lending Stream  likely knew about his financial situation at the time it lent to 
him. I dont  think Ive seen  enough  to conclude, as Mr G has proposed,  that because  he later 
entered into a DMP, Lending Stream mustve seen he was in difficulty beforehand.
Ref: DRN26476702Looking at the loans Lending Stream  provided, I dont think the information I have suggests  it 
lent to him irresponsibly.  The number of loans was small. The repayments were  not large 
compared to Mr Gs income (or declared disposable income). And each loan was smaller  
than the one before it. So proportionate  checks wouldnt likely have suggested the loans 
were unaffordable.
Although I have limited  information, I think Ive seen enough to reach a fair outcome. And for 
the reasons given above, I dont think Lending Stream  was wrong to lend to Mr G. So Im not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint against  Gain Credit LLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2647670