K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the actions of Secure Trust Bank  plc (trading as Moneyway) when 
she returned a car she acquired under a finance agreement it provided. 
Mrs B is represented by her husband but Ill refer to anything thats been said on her behalf  
as though Mrs B had said it herself, to keep  things simple. 
background
Mrs B got this car with a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) from Moneyway in 2015.  She 
wanted to give it back in January last year and decided to end the HPA under  a process 
known as voluntary  termination (VT). Mrs B thinks Moneyway took too long to end the 
agreement and collect the car - it was over a week before a third party  agent  (that Ill call W) 
came to get the car and an inspection report was only produced  about a month  after that. 
When the car was collected Mrs B was given  a receipt that said only age related marks were 
present. But, Moneyway  wrote to Mrs B about  a month later and asked her to pay over 
£1,600 for damage. Mrs B disputed the charges  and told Moneyway she had photos that 
show the car was in good condition when it was returned. And Moneyway subsequently 
acknowledged the inspection report doesnt  show  damage clearly (in a letter  dated  12 
March) and agreed  to waive  the charges. 
Mrs B thinks  it was wrong of Moneyway to raise these charges  without checking  the report  
properly to begin with. And it shouldnt have sent correspondence suggesting she might  still 
owe some  money under  the HPA when the agreement had already ended.  She feels 
Moneyway should  have  told the DVLA about  the change of ownership - to prevent her 
receiving more upsetting correspondence - and he says Moneyways failure  to ring her 
representative back at times also increased  her distress. This experience  has made  Mrs B 
unwell and she wants Moneyway to pay reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its actions.
Moneyway says the car was collected within a reasonable time and it received the inspection 
report from W about  a week  after that. Moneyway relied on Ws assessment  of the cars 
condition and asked  Mrs B to pay for damage  in line with its usual  process. When Mrs B 
objected Moneyway took a closer look at the inspection report. It decided only a scratched 
bumper and a dented  front door were shown clearly  enough and reduced  the charges to just 
over £250.  
Mrs B remained unhappy  and Moneyway agreed to waive all damage charges as a gesture 
of goodwill.  Moneyway accepts communication between Mrs Bs representative and the 
customer service  team  could have  been  better. It offered  to pay Mrs B £50 compensation for 
any associated distress  and inconvenience.  
Two of our investigators looked  into what happened. Neither was persuaded that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  The second investigator sent Mrs B a detailed  view outlining 
why that says (in summary)
 
Moneyway had the right to check the condition of the car on return  and ask Mrs B to 
pay for any damage found beyond fair wear  and tear under the finance agreement;
the car was picked  up around eight working  days after Moneyway discussed VT with 
Mrs B - which doesnt seem  unreasonable; 
Ref: DRN28224722its not unusual  for lenders like Moneyway to ask a third party like W to collect a car 
and inspect it;
the check carried out on collection isnt a comprehensive inspection - theres no 
facility on the collection  form to make detailed notes  and a full inspection  takes  place 
later when  the car is taken back to site;
the inspection  report W sent Moneyway says there were  scratches,  dents and other 
damage and it wasnt  wrong  of Moneyway  to accept this at first;
Moneyway told Mrs B about  the damage  and associated charges and she had the 
chance to dispute  them; 
its not uncommon for lenders to reconsider and waive or reduce charges at this 
stage in this situation;  
the fact that Moneyway decided not to pursue charges doesn't  mean they were  
fraudulent or applied  incorrectly;  and 
letters Moneyway  sent Mrs B werent intended  to cause her distress, albeit 
Moneyway recognises communication  could have  been  better. 
Hes satisfied that Moneyway apologised for poor service and offered Mrs B £50 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. He thinks this response seems  
reasonable overall and hes not persuaded it would  be fair to ask Moneyway to pay more 
compensation or do anything further. 
Mrs B doesnt think her complaint has been looked at properly. She says (in summary)
the courier that collected  the car didnt report any damage.  She thinks  car could have 
been damaged  in transit and she shouldnt be held responsible for anything that 
might have  happened after collection;  
our investigator didnt take all of the evidence she supplied  into account  - such  as 
photos taken of the car when it was collected. And he didnt consider Moneyways 
letter of 12 March  properly. Moneyway  accepts  the inspection  report doesnt  show  
the damage it tried to charge  her for which  shows the report  was unfit for purpose - 
meaning Moneyway  was wrong  to rely on it; 
the inspection  report says the average value for this car is £700.Thats  around the 
amount it sold for at auction  without any repairs so the car achieved the average 
price expected and Moneyway shouldnt have asked her to pay more  than that.
Mrs B wants  Moneyway to pay additional compensation in light of the unnecessary stress 
and upset she experienced  as a result of its actions. She asked for an ombudsman to review 
the matter.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   I have reached broadly the same 
conclusions as our investigator  for much the same reasons. 
I am sorry  to hear about the difficulties Mrs B had when she ended  this HPA. I can see both 
she and her husband (who has taken  the time and trouble to represent  Mrs B throughout)  
have very strong feelings about  what happened. 
I think it might be helpful if I clarify  the role of this service at the outset. We provide informal 
dispute resolution for consumers and financial businesses. When we think a financial 
business has done something  wrong we can require it to put things right.  Generally, we try to 
Ref: DRN28224723put the consumer back  in the position  they would have been in if the mistake hadnt  been 
made - as far as is reasonably possible.  But, its not up to this service to fine or punish a 
financial business - or tell it how to operate on a day to day basis. Thats  the job of the 
regulator.    
Ive considered what happened here carefully. I can see that Mrs B told Moneyway she 
wanted to end her finance agreement near the end of January 2018.  Im satisfied Moneyway 
contacted Mrs B not long after. I have listened  to a recording of the VT call where  Mrs B 
discussed what would happen next with a member of Moneyways staff. 
Mrs B explained the road tax was about to expire and she - understandably  - didnt want to 
pay for that as she wasnt keeping the car. The call handler suggested Mrs B could contact  
W direct to see if it might  be able to speed this up. But, I am satisfied he also made it fairly 
clear that Moneyway couldnt provide a guaranteed  collection date. 
W picked the car up just under two weeks later - which was in line with what  Mrs B was told 
to expect. I understand Mrs B might have  preferred  to have the car collected  sooner. But, I 
dont think the amount  of time this took was unusual or unreasonable. I am not persuaded 
there was any undue delay. 
The HPA Mrs B signed says she had to take reasonable care of the car. And I dont think  its 
surprising that Moneyway  to want to check the cars  condition when it was returned. Lenders  
like Moneyway dont  usually have the specialist knowledge - or facilities - needed  to collect  
and inspect cars when  a finance agreement comes  to an end so they will often appoint a 
third party to do so. W has multiple auctions sites nationally and its a member  of various 
trade bodies including the National Association  of Motor Auctions (NAMA). It seems to be 
the sort of organisation Id expect to see appointed in this situation.
I have seen the inspection W provided to Moneyway. It says the cars condition  was graded 
in accordance with the NAMA  grading  scheme. I think  the report is fairly detailed  and Im 
satisfied it relates to the car Mrs B returned - it has photos  of the car attached.  The inspector 
concluded there was damage present which was likely to cost about £1,600 to fix. 
I have no doubt  it must  have been really worrying for Mrs B to receive a bill for this damage 
when she felt shed  taken reasonable care of the car. I understand she feels Moneyway 
should never have  raised these charges - especially as the price the car achieved at auction 
without repairs suggests it was in reasonable condition. But, I cant  fairly say it was 
unreasonable of Moneyway to rely on Ws report initially. 
I dont think Moneyway had any reason to question  Ws estimation of damage until Mrs B 
objected. Moneyway didnt have the photographs Mrs B took of the car, at this stage - so I 
can see why our investigator didnt feel he needed  to see those.  And, while I accept  the 
receipt provided on collection mentions age related marks only, Im satisfied that inspection  
was limited in scope. Im not persuaded it was intended to replace the detailed inspection  W 
carried out when  the car was returned  to site. And I cant  fairly say Moneyway had reason to 
question the inspectors conclusions when the report was received - based on the 
information it had at that time. 
I am not persuaded that Moneyway raised  these charges  with any intent to upset or defraud 
or deceive Mrs B. I am satisfied it agreed  to look at the evidence  again when Mrs B disputed 
the damage was present. I think that was reasonable - its what  Id expect lender to do in this 
Ref: DRN28224724situation. And I find it fair that Moneyway agreed  to waive the charges when it decided  the 
damage wasnt shown  clearly enough in the inspection report.  
I understand it was worrying for Mrs B to receive some of the letters Moneyway sent her. 
Moneyway accepts it should have provided  better service - and communication wasnt  
always what it should have been.  I have considered the likely impact of this on Mrs B to 
assess how much, if any, compensation  seems  fair and reasonable - in all of the 
circumstances. 
I should make it clear that I can only require a financial business to make this sort of 
compensation payment for distress and inconvenience experienced by the customer - not a 
third party. So, Im unable  to ask Moneyway to compensate  Mr B for the time and trouble 
hes taken to represent Mrs B - or any distress  and inconvenience hes experienced himself  
(except to the extent  that may have affected  Mrs B).  
I can understand entirely that Mrs B may well feel that the process of ending  this HPA and 
returning the car was far from perfect. But, I dont have the power  to order  Moneyway to 
change the way that it operates.  I am satisfied  that Moneyway agreed to re-visit and waive 
all of the charges  in March 2017  - before Mrs B raised this complaint with our service. I think 
it apologised for errors and offered  Mrs B compensation relatively quickly.  And I find the 
amount of compensation offered seems fair overall.  
I am satisfied that Moneyway has provided  a reasonable response to Mrs Bs complaint so I 
cant reasonably  require it to do more. I leave it to Mrs B to contact Moneyway if she wishes 
to accept the compensation offered - if she hasnt  received it already. I realise this decision  
is likely  to come as a disappointment  to Mrs B and Im sorry about that. Mrs B doesnt  have  
to accept what Ive said,  in which case it remains open to her to pursue this matter  by other 
means should she wish to do so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2822472