K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement  with 
Santander Consumer  (UK) plc, trading as Volvo Car Financial Services,  wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement with Volvo Financial 
Services at the end of April 2018.  The car was about  three  years  old and its mileage was 
approximately 25,000 miles.  After only a few days he noticed issues  with the cars gears, 
steering and engine so he returned  it to the dealer. And he says that he asked  for a 
replacement car or to end his agreement. He also contacted Volvo  Financial Services. The 
dealer couldnt  find a fault with the car so it was returned to Mr T. But the issues continued 
so Mr T again took the car to the dealer in late May 2018. It road-tested the car and found 
that it wasnt pulling away properly and was changing gear at the wrong  time. So it repaired 
the car. But the car broke  down in traffic the next day due to a coolant shortage.  The dealer 
resolved those issues but Mr T complained  to Volvo  Financial Services. The car broke down 
again in July 2018 because of transmission issues and the dealer again repaired  the car but 
Mr T said that he wanted to reject  the car. He wasnt satisfied with Volvo Financial Services  
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that it was 
more likely than not that there were inherent faults with the car. So she recommended that 
Volvo Financial Services should  cancel the conditional sale agreement, refund 50% of Mr Ts 
payments under the agreement and refund  his deposit (with interest). 
Volvo Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It 
says, in summary, that it disputes that Mr T is entitled to reject the car as its been  repaired 
at no cost to him  and the dealer was entitled  to the opportunity  at repair  as the car had had 
different issues rectified and the same  repair  hasnt  been conducted on more  than one 
occasion. And it says that Mr T was kept mobile  with a courtesy car while  his car was being  
repaired and has never been without use of a car  so it cant  agree that 50% of the monthly  
payment be refunded to him.
Mr T has asked for compensation because of the way that the dealer has dealt with him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr T under a conditional sale agreement with Volvo Financial 
Services at the end of April 2018.  The car was then about three  years  old and it had been 
used to drive approximately 25,000 miles.  Within  a few days he noticed issues with the cars 
gears, steering  and engine so he returned it to the dealer.  He says that he took the car to the 
dealer and asked  for the car to be exchanged or his agreement to be cancelled - and he 
says that he spent over two hours  with the dealer arguing that there was a problem with the 
car and that it was unacceptable.  But the dealer took the car for a road-test and said that no 
faults were present so Mr T was told that it wasnt possible for him to reject the car. Mr T 
also contacted  Volvo  Financial Services.
Ref: DRN26848212Mr T says that he drove the car for a further 13 days with the same fault until he had to take 
the car back  to the dealer as the problem was getting worse.  The dealer road-tested the car 
again and found that it wasnt  pulling away properly and was changing gear at the wrong 
time. So it repaired the car under  warranty and the invoiced cost of the repairs was 
£2,245.77. The car was returned to Mr T but broke down  the following day in traffic due to a 
coolant shortage. The dealer resolved those issues but Mr T wrote to Volvo  Financial 
Services about the issues with the car. The car broke down again in July 2018 because of 
transmission issues. The dealer repaired the car but Mr T said that he wanted to reject it.
Mr T complained about issues with the car within days of the car being  supplied to him  and 
he said that he wanted to reject  the car. The dealer  said that there was no fault with the car. 
But Mr T says that the issues  got worse and later that month major repairs  were required on 
the car. I consider it to be more likely  than not that those  issues  were present  when  the car 
was supplied to Mr T. So I find that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr T. And Mr T had said that he wanted to reject the car because  of those issues  within  
30 days of the car being supplied to him. So I consider that he shouldve  been allowed to 
reject the car at that time. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Volvo Financial 
Services to allow Mr T to reject the car. So I consider that it should end the agreement and 
collect the car from him. Mr T part-exchanged  his old car as a deposit for the car that was 
supplied to him. The value given to him for his old car was £597   and I consider that Volvo 
Financial Services should refund  £597 to him, with interest.
Mr T was provided with a courtesy car when his car was being  repaired  but his use and 
enjoyment of his car has been interrupted  and he hasnt used the car since he left it with 
the dealer. He says that he limited  his use of the car because  he wasnt confident  in its 
reliability for journeys that he would need  to make  for work. He had to make multiple visits to 
the dealer before it acknowledged that there was a fault with the car and he was caused 
significant distress and inconvenience when  the car broke down in traffic in June 2018. So I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Volvo  Financial 
Services to refund to Mr T 50% of the monthly payments that hes made  under the 
agreement (with interest).
Mr T has also asked  for compensation for the way that the dealer has dealt with him. But the 
refund of premiums referred to above includes compensation for the issues that he had with 
the dealer  and Im not persuaded that a higher  amount of compensation is justified.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. And I order Volvo  Financial 
Services to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement  and arrange for the car to be collected   both at 
no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr T the deposit of £597  that he paid for the car.
Ref: DRN268482133. Refund to Mr T 50% of the monthly  payments that hes made under the agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Volvo  Financial  Services  to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 4 above. Volvo  Financial  Services must give Mr T a certificate  
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2684821