K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited settled a claim as a fault claim under his 
car insurance policy. 
background
Mr P was involved  in an incident  with another  car in February  2018.  He reported the incident 
to his insurer, Ageas.  Mr P said he hit the rear of a stationary  car.
Ageas settled the claim as a fault claim.  Mr P didnt think this was fair. He said the incident 
happened due to icy weather conditions. He said there was nothing he could have done to 
prevent the incident from happening.  Mr P wanted  Ageas to restore  his No Claims Discount 
(NCD). Hes unhappy that the incident  has had an impact  on his future premiums.
Mr P said Ageas didnt  tell him it received a claim from the other driver. He has concerns 
about the validity of the other  drivers claim. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably.  It explained to Mr P when he reported 
the incident that he would be held at fault.  And it said this would impact on his NCD and 
future premiums. Ageas said it told Mr P it would deal with a claim from the other driver. 
Ageas settled the other drivers claim. Mr P decided not to claim for repairs to his car. As 
Mr P hadnt  protected his NCD; our investigator  felt Ageas had correctly recorded the claim. 
Mr P didnt agree. So the case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
I understand how strongly Mr P feels about his complaint. He feels its unfair for Ageas to 
record the claim as a fault claim.  He says it was the conditions  and not his driving   that 
led to the incident. 
Mr Ps insurance policy provides cover in the event of a claim. Ageas has a common  term 
which says it can deal with a claim in Mr Ps name.  This means that Ageas might make a 
decision to settle  a claim which Mr P doesnt agree with. But the policy  allows it to do this. 
Ageas  like many insurers  records all incidents on a Claims Underwriting Exchange  
(CUE) database. This is a central database  which insurers  use to ensure incidents are 
recorded and to help prevent fraud.
The fact is Mr Ps car caused damage  to a third partys car. It wasnt the third partys fault. 
The motor  industry  uses  the term fault and non fault  to record claims. This doesnt 
necessarily mean the insurer is to blame  but it is the terminology used when an insurer is 
or isnt able to recover the costs of a claim from a third party.  
Ref: DRN28224802In this case Ageas was responsible  as Mr Ps insurer  for the costs of the other drivers 
claim. And as Mr Ps car hit the rear of the other drivers car, irrespective of the weather 
conditions, Ageas explained  that this means Mr P is at fault for the incident.
We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  But we can look at whether an insurer  
reached its decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
Ageas received Mr Ps account of what happened  when he reported the incident in February 
2018. Its notes of the call show that it explained  to Mr P that he would be held at fault for the 
incident  even though  Mr P said it was the icy conditions that were to blame. 
Mr P doesnt  believe hed be held at fault if his car had slid into another  car while he wasnt 
in it. But that isnt correct. Because for the reasons  Ive explained, it would be Mr Ps car that 
caused the damage. And so Ageas had no fault party to recover  its costs from. The costs of 
a claim from the other driver would therefore lie with Mr Ps insurer. 
As Mr P didnt protect his NCD, the incident has had an impact and insurers will take into 
account the claim  along with Mr Rs reduced NCD  when deciding  a premium. I can see 
that Ageas sent Mr P a Frequently Asked Questions leaflet when he reported  the claim. 
This explained the impact the claim would  have on Mr Ps NCD. 
I understand Mr P has concerns about  the validity of the other drivers claim. But I can see 
that Ageas properly  investigated the other  drivers claim and settled it with suitable evidence  
of their costs. So I think Ageas dealt with the claim reasonably and in line with the policy.  
I know Mr P will be disappointed  but this means I dont think  Ageas  needs to do any more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2822480