K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about the advice he received from Cowley  & Miller  Independent Financial 
Services Limited (C&M) to transfer  the benefits  from his final salary  related occupational 
pension scheme  to a personal pension.
background
It was C&M that advised Mr D to transfer his pension, so it is C&M that is responsible for 
Mr Ds complaint. That said, Mr D was introduced to C&M  by another organisation, who I will 
refer to as A. Mr D dealt with both A and C&M frequently, so I will be referring to both 
organisations in my decision. 
Mr Ds occupational pension scheme sent A his transfer value in May 2014.  C&M was then 
engaged, producing a pension transfer  analysis  and a suitability report  for Mr D in June 
2014. Mr D then met with A (rather than C&M) on 25 June.  But C&M posted various 
documents to Mr D ahead  of this meeting, including its suitability report, compliance 
documents and application forms for the new personal pension provider it had 
recommended for Mr D. Mr D says A provided him with these documents  in person as well.
Theres some uncertainty about how Mr Ds circumstances  were taken into account  in the 
advice process. A fact-find (including  a risk-profiler) detailing Mr Ds circumstances, financial 
planning needs and attitude to risk was completed  but it was signed  by Mr D on 
30 September 2014 which is after the date of the suitability report (which  was dated 
18 June 2014). Mr D also says he doesnt recall  speaking  to C&M until January 2015.  
However, the fact-find was posted to Mr D ahead  of his meeting with A in June 2014. The 
suitability report also refers to discussions between C&M and Mr D. And Mr D did meet with 
A. So whilst  information  about Mr Ds circumstances did flow between all three parties, its 
not easy to determine the exact  timetable of events.  Ultimately, however, it doesnt impact  
on the outcome  of the complaint.
The combined transfer value of Mr Ds occupational benefits was just over £30,000, split 
between two tranches  relating to benefits  to be taken by Mr D at the age of 60 and benefits 
to be taken at the age of 65. Mr Ds personal  circumstances at the time, as recorded  in the 
suitability report and fact find, were  as follows:
Age 32, single, in good  health,  with no financial dependents
Employed earning £65,000  p.a.
Savings of £5,000
Owner of three properties which were rented out
Total credit card and mortgage debt of just under £100,000
Limited pension assets beyond  his final salary related occupational pension  scheme  
Attitude-to-risk  described as average in the fact find and balanced in the suitability 
report
Ref: DRN29123972The suitability report C&M drew up for Mr D advised him as follows:  
After reviewing the whole of the pensions  market and comparing  your existing pension 
benefits with the market  I have chosen to recommend that you transfer  your existing benefits 
into the Scottish Life Pension  Portfolio
Various risk warnings were also provided,  including a warning about  the guaranteed  benefits 
Mr D would be giving up, the potential for investment returns  to disappoint and the 
importance of annuity rates in determining retirement income. The report also showed  the 
two tranches of Mr Ds transferred funds would need  to generate an annual return of 7.07% 
and 7.84% to match  the benefits he was giving  up in his occupational scheme.  
There isnt much activity on file with regards to the transfer in the latter  half of 2014. It wasnt 
until December 2014 that A sent signed  application  forms to C&M which  C&M then sent on 
to Royal  London  (Scottish Lifes parent company) on 24 December. It looks like the transfer 
couldnt go ahead at this point because  C&M tried to contact Mr D as, according to its phone  
notes, it needed  to verify the information Mr D had provided, demonstrate that it was treating 
Mr D fairly  and ensure  that its advice was appropriate.
Mr D was working overseas so contact was difficult, but it looks  like a telephone call between  
C&M and Mr D took place  on 8 January 2015.  In this call, C&M recorded  information about 
Mr Ds circumstances and needs  along the lines of a mini-fact find. C&M sent an email  to 
Mr D on 10 January asking whether he wanted  to proceed with the transfer. It also sent him 
its suitability report.  Mr D replied on the same  day querying whether  the suitability report was 
the same  as the one he had already received back in June  2014  and, if so, he said he was 
happy to proceed. He signed  the Royal London application documents  on 13 January 2015, 
his transfer funds were  paid on 25 March and Royal London sent Mr D a welcome  pack the 
following day. 
In 2018 Mr D complained  to C&M about  the advice hed been given. He said the advice 
wasnt tailored to his particular  circumstances and had left him in a less secure  financial 
position than he otherwise  would  have been in. He also said the advice had been given by 
someone who wasnt qualified to provide advice (an employee of A). C&M didnt uphold his 
complaint. It said, in brief, that Mr D wanted the flexibility  his new pension  provided 
especially in relation to early  retirement and that Mr D was made  aware of all the potential  
risks involved in transferring. C&M also said Mr D had agreed to the transfer.
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She 
thought C&M  had a responsibility to give suitable  advice but hadnt done so. She concluded 
that Mr D wouldnt have  transferred from his occupational pension scheme if he had been  
given suitable  advice. 
C&M disagreed with the adjudicators findings,  although it didnt provide any substantively 
new information or arguments. The matter  is now with me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN29123973what would  suitable  advice have been?
When advising on a transfer from a defined benefits occupational pension  scheme,  an 
adviser should start by assuming the transfer is unsuitable. The transfer can only be 
considered suitable if it can be clearly  demonstrated that the transfer is in a clients  best 
interests (COBS 19.1.6  G).
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests. Yes, theres  
evidence that Mr D wanted the flexibility to take retirement benefits from the age of 55 (which 
the suitability report says he wouldnt have been able to do in his occupational scheme).  For 
example, the fact find says He wants  to transferto give him more options, allow him to 
take his pension earlyand hope to get more growth. The suitability  report says something  
along the same lines: You  wish to discuss transferring  your defined benefit pension  plan to 
an alternative arrangement which will provide  you with personal control over your pension  
funds, allowing you the flexibility  to take early  retirement from age 55 if you so wish.
However, Mr Ds objective is never  explored  in any detail. For example, theres nothing  on 
record to explain why Mr D wanted to take his pension benefits at 55 or why doing so would 
be feasible. And theres nothing to show why this goal was so important for Mr D that giving 
up valuable  guaranteed benefits  and his only significant pension benefits  at that point  in 
order to achieve  it was an appropriate action  to take. In fact, the tone of the suitability report  
(retirement from age 55 if you so wish) is that the flexibility  to take benefits  at age 55 was a 
nice-to-have for Mr D rather than something that was worth sacrificing valuable, 
guaranteed, benefits for. Its also noteworthy  that the why do you want  to transfer? section 
of the handwritten notes completed during the January 2015 telephone call  just ahead of 
when Mr D did actually transfer   is left blank. So, all things considered,  there is little to 
suggest Mr Ds goals  were properly assessed.  
Furthermore, at the time of transfer the two tranches  of Mr Ds transfer value required an 
annual return of 7.07% and 7.84%  just to match the benefits he was giving up in his 
occupational scheme.  By way of illustration, Scottish  Life provided projections  for Mr Ds 
personal pension  based on low, medium and high annual  real returns of -0.5%,  2.4% and 
5.4% respectively. Whilst only projections,  they do suggest Mr Ds pension would have to 
have performed strongly just to keep pace  with the benefits he was giving up. And it shows 
the risk he would be running  in order to achieve the greater flexibility  he says he wanted. 
This may have been an acceptable trade-off.  But, as explained  above,  theres  nothing  on 
record to persuasively  support why that might  be so given Mr Ds particular circumstances 
and attitude to risk.  
Thats not to say warnings werent  given to Mr D about the transfer. The suitability report  did 
warn him that he was giving up valuable guaranteed benefits,  and explained the returns he 
would have to achieve in order  to keep pace with what he was giving up (the 7.07% and 
7.84% figures). The suitability report also explained that investment returns are uncertain 
along with a number of other warnings  for instance, with regards to the importance of 
annuity rates. However the warnings  dont negate the need  to provide suitable advice. 
Likewise, the fact that Mr D agreed  to the transfer  doesnt negate  the need for C&M to have 
provided him with suitable advice in the first place. 
In short,  its not clear to me based on the available evidence why giving up valuable 
guarantees from his occupational scheme would have been suitable  for Mr D. With this in 
mind, and given the requirement of COBS, Im satisfied Mr D shouldnt  have  been  advised 
by C&M to transfer his pension.
Ref: DRN29123974what would  Mr D have done?
There is an argument that Mr D would have transferred his pension whatever advice he was 
given. If so, holding  C&M entirely responsible for the transfer wouldnt necessarily be fair  it 
would have happened anyway whatever C&M advised. Ive considered  this carefully.  
However, Ive seen no persuasive  evidence of Mr D being so determined to transfer  that he 
would have ignored the advice of a professional adviser. So if Mr D had been advised to not 
transfer  as he should have been   Im satisfied he wouldnt have gone ahead  with the 
transfer. 
the role of other  parties
Mr Ds initial  thoughts were that the advice came from A rather than C&M. I can understand 
why he thought this. Mr D dealt with A initially. Face-to-face contact  was with A, not C&M. 
And A was involved all the way through the transfer  process. 
However, Im satisfied the actual advice came from C&M rather  than A. This means it was 
C&Ms responsibility to ensure the advice was suitable. The involvement of other parties 
doesnt, in this particular case,  change things. Once  Mr D was introduced  to C&M, C&M took 
on the responsibility for providing him with suitable advice. And because  its advice wasnt 
suitable, C&M is responsible for any losses that followed as a result.
fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. C&M must therefore undertake a redress  calculation 
in line with the regulators pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
C&M may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain  Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
Ref: DRN29123975rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date C&M 
receives notification  of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to 
the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final 
decision to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes  C&M to pay 
Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
C&M should also pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused. 
This should be paid to Mr D directly  rather than into his pension  fund.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. Cowley & Miller Independent  
Financial Services Limited  must  pay compensation as set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2912397