K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about end of contract charges when his agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited ended.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I proposed not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. I 
invited Mr E and VWFS  to let me have  any further  evidence or arguments they wanted to 
make before I finally determined the matter.
VWFS didnt  reply to my provisional decision.
Mr E said he didnt  agree with my provisional decision.  He said the guidelines which  were  in 
existence at the end of the agreement were  fundamentally different to the guidelines which 
were in existence at the start of the agreement. He said the guidelines  in existence at the 
start of the agreement  were the ones by which any damage to the car should have been 
assessed. He also said he did not see how I could reach a decision a decision if I was not in 
possession of what guidelines were in existence at the start of the agreement.
Mr E said that he was aware  from his own research that end of contract charges were  the 
subject of controversy  and he was unhappy  that this service wasnt  prepared to address  
what he considered  to be unscrupulous practices by car finance companies.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of everything that Mr E has said. However, I havent  been persuaded to 
reach a different conclusion from that which I set out in my provisional decision.  Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision  that I dont agree that the guidelines available  at the 
start of the agreement  (whatever they said)  are the relevant guidelines by which  damage  
should be assessed at the end of the agreement.  This is why I dont need to see the 
guidelines which were  available at the start of the agreement. I remain of the view that the 
relevant guidelines are those which were available at the time when the car was inspected.
Im unable to comment on Mr Es views about end of contract charges. I can only determine 
whether such charges  have been fairly applied in accordance  with the relevant guidelines.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision - my 
final decision  is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Ref: DRN28621952Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862195