K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  his motor insurance  
policy from the start (voided it) and declined his claim for the theft of his car. He wants it to 
deal with his claim. Mr T is represented in this matter by Mr S. 
background
Mr Ts car was stolen and he made a claim. But Advantage then found that when Mr T took 
out his policy  hed had his driving  licence for 3 years and 8 months,  not 5 years  as hed told 
it. It said it wouldnt have offered cover if it had known  this. So it voided  the policy,  refunded 
the premiums and declined the claim.  Advantage had initially  accepted  the claim. It offered 
Mr T £75 compensation for the loss of expectation  caused by its level of service.  Mr T said 
the question hed been asked wasnt clear.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought a clear 
question had been asked but Mr T had answered  this incorrectly.  He thought Advantage 
wouldnt have offered a policy if the correct answer  had been given. So he thought  it was 
entitled to void the policy and decline the claim.  He also thought its offer of compensation for 
service issues  was fair and reasonable. 
Mr S replied  that the questions were misleading and unfair. He said Mr T wasnt prompted to 
check his licence to calculate how long it had been held. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  an expensive and frustrating experience for Mr T. Ive no 
doubt that hes an honest and trustworthy person. But Im not able to uphold  his complaint. 
Ill now explain why I think this. 
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer, we 
take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear question  when 
the policy was taken out. We check  that the information given would affect whether a policy 
was offered. And we check whether the informant  has acted carelessly or deliberately in 
making the misrepresentation.
Mr T took out his policy through  an online comparison site assisted by his employer. He was 
asked questions about his driving  licence. Ive looked at these  questions. Mr T was asked 
what type of licence he had and he correctly  selected Full. He was then asked how many 
years hed held his current driving  licence. And he was provided with a drop down box to 
select a number. 
Additional information was provided  to help answer  this question.  Mr T was asked to check  
the back of his driving licence to calculate the years it had been held. I think this is a clear 
question. I think  the additional information makes it clear that the licence being referred to is 
the current one.
Ref: DRN24917972Mr T selected 5 years,  but hed held his licence for 3 years and 8 months. His employer 
told Advantage that the mistake was due to an error in memory, not misunderstanding the 
question. Mr S later said that Mr T had misunderstood the question and thought it was 
referring to licences in general, not his full licence. But in this case  he should  have  answered  
7 years, rather than 5 years. So I think the first explanation for the error is more  likely and 
Mr T didnt  take reasonable care in answering the question. 
Mr S thought  Advantage should  have checked Mr Ts driving licence when he first took out 
his policy. But I dont  think it would  be reasonable to expect insurers  to check  all the 
information consumers  provide. I think  its for consumers to reasonably provide correct 
information in response to questions asked. 
Advantage has provided us with an extract from its underwriting guidelines that shows that if 
Mr T had answered the question correctly, then it wouldnt have offered him cover for his 
make and model of car. 
So I think Advantage asked a clear  question about  how long Mr T had held his current  
licence. I think he carelessly  answered this incorrectly.  I think  if hed given the correct 
answer, then Advantage wouldnt have offered cover. So, under the relevant  legislation, I 
think Advantage is entitled  to void the policy, decline the claim and refund the premiums.  So 
I cant say its made a mistake in this.
Advantage agreed that it could have  better  managed Mr Ts expectations that his claim 
would be paid. It offered  him £75 compensation for this. I think  thats fair and reasonable as 
its what Id require in similar circumstances. From  what I can see, Mr T didnt cash  this 
cheque and its now expired. If he wants to accept  it, then he should contact Advantage 
again.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2491797