K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about his home  emergency  cover provider, Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) because it declined a claim he made after a leak he had repaired 
caused him to have  no heating or hot water.
background
Mr S noticed  a small leak on his water  tank. He had only just moved in and had forgotten  
he had home emergency  cover  in place. Mr S employed a plumber to fix the leak.  The 
plumber said welding equipment would be needed  but as he had drained the tank there 
was no heating or hot water.
Mr S recalled that he had home emergency cover  in place. He noted this promised to 
assist where there is no heating or hot water in the property. Mr S contacted  RSA and the 
first advisor he spoke to declined the claim on the basis the policy  would only resolve the 
leak. Mr S felt this was wrong and when he called back the advisor  agreed  to send 
someone out to look at the tank because Mr S had no heating  or hot water.
When the contractor  arrived he apparently told Mr S we dont cover tanks . The 
contractor looked at the tank,  messaged the office   split is wear and tear   and then 
spoke to an advisor. Mr S also spoke  to the advisor.  The claim was declined.
Mr S was dissatisfied with the reason hed been given and made  several more phone  
calls to RSA. He noted he also often had to wait for a long time to be connected  to an 
advisor. RSA wrote  to Mr S. It accepted its service had, at times, been poor so it offered 
£50 compensation.  RSA also explained  that the claim had been declined  due to wear 
and tear because  that was the cause of the problem and damage  so caused was 
excluded from cover under the policy.
Mr S said that couldnt be correct  as if that was so then the policy was worthless and 
would allow RSA to avoid liability for every  claim.  He said due to RSA acting unfairly  hed 
had to sleep on friends sofas and, when this wasnt  practical  any more, pay £2,750 to 
replace his whole heating  system. Mr S complained  to this service.
Our investigator noted a brief comment recorded by RSAs contractor, and later some 
photos. But he felt this wasnt sufficient to say RSA could reasonably rely on the wear  
and tear exclusion to defeat its liability for the claim. He felt RSA should reconsider the 
claim and pay Mr S a total of £200 compensation.
Mr S was satisfied by the suggested outcome. RSA objected. It said that in addition to the 
wear and tear exclusion, it would never have been able to complete any work on Mr Ss 
system anyway because it would have required a permanent repair which  it couldnt have 
done at the time its contractor attended.
The complaint was passed  to me and I didnt think it should be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision to explain  my view to both parties. My provisional  findings were:
RSAs contractors view was that the tank was leaking due to wear  and tear. He didnt 
give any reason for that view in the message he sent to the office   but Im mindful he is 
a contractor, not an assessor and was sent there  to complete a repair. So I wouldnt 
expect him to provide a report such that I might expect to see from a loss adjuster  or 
Ref: DRN23429782similar (who are sent to assess the validity of the claim).
But that doesnt mean the contractors opinion doesnt carry weight.  By itself I might have 
questioned on what basis the contractor was able to form this view.  But photographs  of 
the tank were  taken  as well. I think seeing those any reasonable person would conclude  
the tank was old and wouldnt  be surprised  if an expert, such as a contractor, said it was 
suffering from wear and tear. In short  I think RSA has done enough to show  its reliance 
on the wear and tear exclusion to defeat  Mr Ss claim is fair and reasonable.
I can see that RSAs claim handlers  werent very well versed in the policy cover.  I think  
confusion was caused and this generated Mr Ss need to keep calling to try and gain 
further/better answers. I can understand Mr Ss frustration but whilst RSAs  approach  was 
flawed, its answer, that there was no cover  for Mr S in this situation was correct. Having 
considered everything  I think  RSAs  apology and the payment of £50 compensation fairly 
and reasonably makes  up for the upset caused  by its poor claims handling. I dont intend 
to make it pay anything more.
Mr S said he felt the outcome was unfair as the wear  and tear exclusion was too 
wide-ranging; effectively meaning  RSA could decline any claim. Mr S said that the 
exclusion also didnt set out any timeframes and as his house was 17 years  old when 
RSA agreed to cover it, it should have expected its components to have some wear.  Mr S 
maintained his view that RSA, from the outset, had intended to decline his claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The exclusion RSA has relied upon  isnt unusual in property  insurance. Its a common  term 
found in most policies   none  of which I am aware of set any time limits  for wear and/or for 
what period gradual refers to. Each  claim is taken  on its own merits and that is how we 
consider complaints too. Whilst I understand why Mr S might think  any and all claims could 
fail by virtue  of this exclusion I can assure him that is not the case   insurers dont rely on 
this type of exclusion in relation to every  claim made  to them.  That said I do see a number of 
complaints related to this type of clause  some  of which  I uphold  because Ive felt the 
insurers reliance on the exclusion  is unfair  for some reason, and some,  like in Mr Ss case,  
that I dont  uphold as I find the insurers actions, in the relevant circumstances, were 
reasonable. 
I understand why, to Mr S, it feels as though RSA was intent on declining his claim from the 
outset. I accept that its initial decline,  followed by a review and then a further  decline,  were 
frustrating. But I remain of the view that, whilst RSA didnt handle  things well, its decline of 
the claim was fair and reasonable, as was the compensation  it paid for the upset its poor 
handling had caused.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Ref: DRN23429783Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342978