K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that he tried unsuccessfully to make a cash  machine withdrawal of £50, using  his 
card issued by Monzo Bank Ltd. He received no cash, but found out the following day that 
his account had been debited with £300. He complains that Monzo wont  refund the money.
background
Mr M used  his Monzo card in a cash machine. He says that he wanted to withdraw  £50, but 
the cash machine  showed a message saying that he had reached his daily withdrawal limit. 
It didnt, he says, dispense any cash.  He therefore used a card issued by another bank and 
received the same message.  Again,  he says no cash was dispensed.  Each transaction  
showed on his respective  bank account  statements as a £300 cash  machine withdrawal. 
Mr M raised  this with both banks;  he had, he said, had his accounts  debited with £300  each, 
even though hed tried to withdraw only £50, and hadnt received any cash at all. The other  
bank refunded his money, but Monzo didnt, and Mr M referred the matter to this service.
One of our investigators  considered what had happened. She wasnt  persuaded, however, 
that the cash machine had been operating  correctly.  The information that Monzo  provided  
was very limited. In particular, it hadnt  sent anything from the cash  machine operator or any 
information about its efforts to recover the money  from through the card scheme, 
MasterCard.
Because the investigator was unable  to say that the cash machine was operating correctly, 
she recommended  that Monzo refund the £300.  Monzo didnt accept the investigators 
opinion and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case. 
I did that and, through the investigator, sought more information from the cash  machine 
operator  which wasnt Monzo or Mr Ms other bank.  I thought  that information showed, in 
summary:
Mr M had in fact requested two withdrawals of £300, not of £50.
The withdrawal  made using his Monzo  card had been successful and £300 had been 
dispensed and collected.  
The second withdrawal hadnt  been  completed. Although the cash  had been dispensed 
by the cash machine, it hadnt  been  collected; instead, it had been retrieved by the cash 
machine and re-credited to Mr Ms account.
The cash machines  records indicated that it was operating correctly.  
For these reasons, I didnt  recommend that Monzo  refund  the £300 to Mr Ms account. Mr M 
asked that I reconsider  my provisional  findings. He pointed out that I had wrongly said that 
hed tried to withdraw  £300, and I accept that he said he wanted to withdraw only £50. He 
also felt that my provisional  decision accused him of not telling the truth about  what had 
happened. 
     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24469222A key part of my role as an ombudsman is of course to determine  the outcome of disputes 
such as that which Mr M has with Monzo. Sometimes, the facts wont be in dispute,  but in 
other cases  including this one  they are. In short, Mr M says he asked for £50, no cash 
was dispensed  but his account was debited with £300. Monzo however says that the cash 
machine records show  that he requested a withdrawal of £300 and that that sum was 
properly dispensed  and collected from the cash machine. So, in order  to reach an outcome 
which I consider to be fair and reasonable, I need to decide which of those is more  likely to 
be correct; both cant be.   
Mr M has said too that I should be considering  CCTV coverage  of the cash  machine at the 
time he was using it. I agree that might be helpful, if it were available.  However,  it isnt, and I 
cant look at evidence that I dont have, but I make no assumptions about what  it might have 
shown if it had been. 
Mr M also responded specifically to a comment in which I said I thought it unlikely that the 
cash machine would have declined a transaction and given  a message that the daily 
withdrawal limit had been exceeded. He said that most cards  do have a daily withdrawal limit 
and that a cash machine will give that message if a customer tries to exceed it. I accept 
thats correct, but in this case Mr Ms limit had not been reached. 
Mr Ms case is, in short, that the cash machine wasnt  operating correctly and that, on two 
occasions, he tried to withdraw £50, received no cash, but his account was debited  with 
£300. He also says he received an erroneous message about his daily limit. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  however,  the cash machine records  show a 
different picture.  They show not only that cash was dispensed, but also the denominations  of 
notes counted, the number of notes in the machine before and after each transaction  and 
that the second withdrawal wasnt collected.  Ive also seen records  of other transactions at 
around the same time; they dont suggest  any fault either, and the cash machine  operator 
didnt suggest  there  was any problem with the machine. 
Finally, Mr M has asked  why he would try to make a second withdrawal of £300  if he had 
already received that sum. Its not really  for me to speculate on the reasons for Mr Ms 
actions; I am satisfied however that the cash machine did correctly dispense £300  against 
Mr Ms Monzo card and that it was therefore  entitled to debit his account with that sum. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Monzo  Bank  Ltd to take any further  steps to resolve 
Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2446922