K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained to Santander UK Plc about  issues related to her home insurance, an 
incorrect postcode,  incorrect  account numbers and her mortgage.  
background
Mrs S has been a customer of Santanders,  and its predecessors, for some years. She 
previously had a mortgage  with Santander  and also took out her home  insurance  policy  
through it. 
Mrs S has made a number of complaints to Santander in recent years,  about  a variety of 
issues and Santander  has issued a number of final response letters.  Ive outlined the 
contents of some the final response  letters Santander has sent to Mrs S, to get a history of 
whats happened in relation to the current complaint. 
Final response letter dated  27 May 2015  
Santander said Mrs S complained about her home insurance policy. Santander didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  The complaint points were:  
Mrs S asked  to have her original  policy reactivated.
When the policy was re-written, Family Legal Protection was no longer part of it. 
Mrs S said she was not party to an interview regarding  this new policy.
Mrs S said Family Legal Protection was not added to the policy in 2011.
Santander said Mrs S spoke to a member of staff about taking out a new home  insurance 
policy in November 2010. It said the policy was sold on a non-advised basis,  so the member  
of staff was not required to assess the suitability of the policy for Mrs S. It said the various 
documents show Mrs S was provided  with enough  information to be able to make an 
informed decision about buying the insurance  policy. And Mrs S was also sent a Welcome  
Pack when the policy started and this showed Mrs S what type of policy shed bought.  
Santander said it wouldnt have  been  able to reactivate Mrs Ss original policy as the 
insurance was provided by a third-party  insurer and any reactivation of a cancelled  policy  or 
changes to an existing  policy,  such as adding the Family Legal Protection cover  when  Mrs S 
noticed it was missing in 2011, would have been  the third-party insurers decision.  
Santander said Mrs S amended her policy in 2009 so that it no longer included Family Legal  
Protection. And so when  she took out the policy in 2010, she would have  had to ask for this 
cover to be included  again, as it wouldnt  have  been  automatically included. 
Mrs S had also said she didnt take part in any interview in relation  to the new policy being 
taken out in 2010. Santander said the policy couldnt have been taken out without it having 
contacted Mrs S. It said Mrs S approved  the new direct debit and also added  a specific piece 
of jewellery to her specified personal  possessions  cover. And, as this hadnt previously been 
part of her insurance policy, the Santander  advisor would have no way of knowing that Mrs S 
had the item of jewellery or that she wanted  it added to the policy. So Mrs S must have 
spoken to Santander about  her cover first. 
At the end of this letter, Santander told Mrs S that she was entitled to refer her complaint to 
the financial ombudsman  service, but would  need  to do so within  six months of the date of 
the letter. 
Ref: DRN24881442Final response letter dated  23 November 2017
Santander said Mrs Ss complained to it about  her home insurance  in May 2017. But it said it 
had already issued a final response to this complaint  on 27 May 2015. And when Mrs S also 
contacted it in April 2016 its response  remained unchanged. It said if Mrs S wants  to refer 
this matter to the financial  ombudsman service,  then she would need to do so within six 
months of the letter dated 27 May 2015.   
Final response letter dated  7 June 2018 
Mrs S again  complained about her home insurance. Santander said Mrs S had previously 
contacted it about her home insurance and it issued a final response on 27 May 2015. It said 
Mrs S contacted it again in April 2016,  May 2017 and November 2017 at which time it 
advised its decision remained  unchanged. 
Santander said Mrs S was given six months from the date of its letter in 2015 to come back  
to it with further concerns or to refer the complaint  to the financial ombudsman  service. But 
Mrs S didnt do either of these things and so Santander said the financial ombudsman  
service did not have its permission to consider  Mrs Ss complaint, except in limited 
circumstances.  
Final response letter dated  18 June 2018
Santander outlined  Mrs Ss complaints as follows:
Mrs S had previously advised it that the postcode it held for her was incorrect since 
1994 and that no action  was taken when Mrs S told a member of staff. 
Mrs S attended the branch before Christmas with documentation about  insurance 
she had with it that she believed was fabricated. Mrs S thought the member  of staff 
she spoke to about this had behaved suspiciously. 
A mortgage previously  held with Santander,  but originally opened with its 
predecessor, was listed on Santanders  system  as being with a different bank. Mrs S 
thought her details  were being  amended and the member of staff she spoke to was 
responsible for this. 
Santander said the matter about  the insurance  policy was being looked into in more detail 
and so wasnt dealt  with in this letter. In relation  to the other matters, it said it had incorrectly  
listed Mrs Ss postcode when it duplicated  her address in 2006,  but this was corrected in 
2016. Santander said Mrs Ss mortgage  account was closed in 2015 and appeared on its 
system with the correct  other bank  listed.  So Santander didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Final response letter dated  17 October  2018 
Its unclear what Mrs S complained about  on this occasion. Santander said it carried out an 
extensive review and said the issues raised by Mrs S were covered  in its final response  
letter dated  27 May 2015. It mentioned  the letters sent in the following  three  years  and said 
its decision to not uphold the complaint remained unchanged. 
It also said Mrs S has exhausted its complaints process and that any further correspondence 
would be added to its file without acknowledgement or response. It said Mrs S had the right 
to refer the complaint to the financial ombudsman service within six months of the letter  
dated 27 May 2015.  
Ref: DRN24881443Final response letter dated  9 May 2019 
Santander said Mrs S told it she had a number of issues with a mortgage account that was 
opened in 1993. In 2002 the account was lost. It was subsequently located  and Santander 
apologised for what  happened. It said the account  later had the wrong  postcode, but this 
didnt affect the redemption  in 2008.  Mrs S also told Santander there were three different 
mortgage account numbers showing when a subject access  request was submitted. 
Santander said there are reasonable  time limits for complaints to be made within the 
financial services industry. And it said Mrs Ss complaint has been made outside of these 
time limits. Santander said it has very little information about Mrs Ss mortgage account as it 
has been archived.  
Santander said there were two numbers for Mrs Ss mortgage. One of which  was the original  
account number  when the account was with a different bank. And, following the move to 
Santander, Mrs Ss account went onto a different system that required a different account 
number. It said the issue  with the account going  missing in 2002 would have been 
considered closed by the bank at that time.  And Mrs S agrees she received an apology  for 
this. 
Santander said it thinks Mrs S has made  her complaint more  than six years  after what  she is 
complaining about happened and more than three years after she realised or should  have 
realised that there was a problem. 
Mrs Ss complaint to the financial ombudsman service 
Mrs S was unhappy with Santanders response  and complained to this service in May 2019.  
She said shes had a range of issues with Santander that seem to have  occurred over three  
decades. Initially,  her complaint points were as follows:  
Mortgage:
Her mortgage account disappeared  for five months in 2002.  
She discovered in April 2019  that there were two mortgage account numbers in her 
name and believes  this affected  the redemption figure in 2008.  
There are three false mortgages  in her name.
Credit:
Santander was using her account  to issue credit on her signature at another  address. 
Credit cards were issued without her being  aware.  
Account information:  
Her details had been changed on Santanders  system.  
Santander said it would amend  an incorrect postcode but didnt and information  has 
been going to the wrong  address  as a result. 
Her recent details  have been erased.
There are duplicate  files with other banks. 
Santander has no record  of her since 1990.
Other:
She has lost over £75,000  as a result and wants money to be returned to her bank 
account. 
Ref: DRN24881444She discovered she had a joint account  with her sister in law, following her sister  in 
laws death. 
Santander overvalued her property leasehold,  terminated her employment, 
highjacked the conveyancing  process  and took out another mortgage in a name 
similar to hers but without her middle initial, which she says is identity theft. 
Santander attempted to steal her land.  
Initial contact with the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) December 2019
Our investigator had some difficulty clarifying exactly what  Mrs Ss complaint was about and 
so suggested  that Mrs S approach the CAB to ask if someone there could represent her. 
CAB then contacted this service with a summary  of Mrs Ss complaints as follows: 
Mrs Ss post code is listed incorrectly. She complained to Santander and it said in a 
letter dated  18 June  2018 that it had made  an error  but had corrected this in 2016. 
However, when Ms S got the letter she phoned Santander and the post code 
recorded then was still incorrect. 
The other issues of complaint  almost certainly  derive from this incorrect post code  
issue. Mrs S had home insurance through Santander and the post code on those 
policies is the incorrect one. This presumably  means that her home has not been 
insured despite  her paying for it.
Mrs S has paid her mortgage to Santander diligently. However, she said payments 
have not been attributed  to her mortgage,  so she questioned whether her mortgage 
policies were recorded under the correct  postcode. 
Mrs S said Santander have told her that she paid off her mortgage in 2015  yet she 
has continued to make payments she believes to be towards her mortgage. She 
found this out in 2018. 
Our investigators assessment of Mrs Ss complaints
Our investigator first of all acknowledged the serious  health  issues Mrs S has faced  over the 
years. She said it was a complex complaint  in which it had been difficult to determine  the 
exact issues Mrs S has raised.  Having  looked  at everything submitted, she summarised  Mrs 
Ss complaint points  as: 
Errors relating to her post code being  recorded incorrectly,  in particular home  
insurance policies  being set up for the wrong post code.
Having multiple  customer numbers.
Multiple points relating  to a mortgage  account.
Errors relating to the post code being recorded  incorrectly, in particular, home insurance 
policies being  set up for the wrong  post code
Our investigator said the complaint about home insurance was raised by Mrs S and 
answered by Santander  back in 2015.  It was then raised  again  by Mrs S in 2016,  twice in 
2017 and again in 2018. And our investigator  said the complaint was not referred  to the 
financial ombudsman service within six months, as instructed  on the 2015 final response  
letter. 
And, as a result of this not being  referred within six months, Santander has not consented to 
this service looking into the complaint. Our investigator  explained that this service  needs to 
follow rules laid down  by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) - the DISP rules - and these 
Ref: DRN24881445tell us when we can and cant look into complaints. Having looked at all the information  
presented by both parties, our investigator said this service cant  look at this complaint about 
home insurance because  it was not referred in time. 
Our investigator then looked at the postcode  complaint.  She said the first time this issue was 
addressed as a complaint by Santander  was within the final response letter of 18 June 2018.  
And according to the DISP rules  mentioned  above,  this would mean this part of the 
complaint should  have  been referred to the financial ombudsman service by 18 December 
2018, but this hadnt  been  done. So she said our service could not look at this complaint. 
Our investigator said although  Santander  didnt consent to us looking into the postcode  
complaint, it was happy to provide some information about how the postcode was recorded  
incorrectly. It said the correct address was held from 1990  but in 2006 the address was 
duplicated and this was recorded  on Mrs Ss details with an incorrect  postcode. Santander 
have said this was corrected in 2016.  Its also confirmed that correspondence was sent to 
the correct address during  this time.  
Our investigator also said Santander provided  evidence to show  Mrs S was never uninsured,  
except for breaks in the policy where premiums had not been paid, and Mrs S has never 
paid premiums for a policy not in her name or for another property.  
Having multiple  customer  numbers
Santander said Mrs S hadnt  ever raised  a complaint with it about having  multiple  customer  
numbers. Mrs S brought that complaint directly to this service. Santander gave this service  
permission to consider  the multiple customer numbers issue  without a separate  complaint  
having to be raised  with it. 
Our investigator said Mrs S is unhappy  that after making  subject access  requests (SARs), 
she realised that her customer number has changed or she has had several numbers at the 
same time in the past. Mrs S seemed to be concerned that if she had more than one 
customer number, then it means her identity  is being  used by someone else. But our 
investigator saw no evidence of this. 
Our investigator said Santander  said its common for customers to have multiple  consumer 
numbers for various  reasons and this wasnt a sign of fictitious  customers with the same 
name being created. Santander has said its going through  a process to sift out any multiple 
records and condense  them all back to one for each  customer.  Our investigator said she 
couldnt see that Santander  had done  anything wrong and she wasnt  going  to ask it to do 
anything further.
Multiple points relating  to a mortgage  account
Our investigator said it was difficult to determine  Mrs Ss complaint points regarding  her 
mortgage account. She provided an outline of Mrs Ss mortgage  with Santander. She said it 
looks like a mortgage account was opened  in 1989  then re-mortgaged in 2006 and 2007 and 
a letter  was sent to Mrs S confirming a direct debit  had been set up for the new mortgage 
payments. And in September  2008, a redemption statement was issued for £28,429.50. A 
further letter on 21 October 2008  confirmed  the payment above had been received and the 
mortgage was paid off (redeemed). Santander provided a list of product holdings for Mrs S 
and our investigator couldnt  see any other  mortgage after this one, redeemed  in 2008.
Ref: DRN24881446Our investigator said Mrs S also provided  a screenshot  showing a mortgage closure date of 
2015. However, Santander confirmed this is not what is showing when it conducts a product 
holding search  and it provided evidence that its product  holdings  search shows  the mortgage 
ended in 2008. Mrs S hasnt provided evidence to show she was still making payments in 
2015.
Santander did not consent  to this service looking into any issues about Mrs Ss mortgage. It 
said any complaint  issues  with the mortgage are out of jurisdiction due to the six and three 
year rule. This is where Mrs S should  have complained within six years of the event being 
complained about or within three  years  from the date when she became aware  or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware  that she had cause to complain. 
Our investigator said Mrs S told her that some  of the letters  shes provided this service  with 
about her mortgage  were  only obtained  after she made a SAR, and so presumably she 
didnt know she had cause to complain until then. However, our investigator  said these 
letters were sent to the correct address and she said she had no reason to believe that they 
hadnt been received by Mrs S at the time they were  sent. Our investigator also said Mrs S 
also provided bank  statements  that show she was making payments only up until the 
mortgage was redeemed. So our investigator thought Mrs S had enough information  at the 
time to make  a complaint  and so this wasnt a complaint this service  could look at.  
Our investigator said Mrs S said thought  she had a mortgage listed  in the name  of an 
unrelated, third party bank. Our investigator said none of the documents  Mrs S sent to us 
indicate this was the case. And Santander confirmed they cant find evidence of another  
mortgage.
Our investigator considered whether there  might  be exceptional reasons  why Mrs S didnt 
bring any of these complaints to this service  in time. She again acknowledged that Mrs S 
has suffered ill health since  June 2011,  but she didnt think  this prevented  Mrs S from 
making these complaints  in time. 
Mrs Ss response to our investigators assessment
Mrs S didnt agree with what  our investigator said. She raised her concerns  through the 
CAB. These  are: 
Mrs S mentioned the serious health problems shes  experienced since 2011. She 
said she had huge communication  problems in 2015 and had another stroke in 2016,  
so her health issues mean she has grounds  for late consideration of the complaint. 
She said she was undergoing rehabilitation in relation to her health  issues  in 2015. 
She said she has clear evidence that the incorrect post code and address  were used 
by Santander  and so its possible the final response letter  from May 2015 was sent to 
the wrong address.  
She is concerned  the incorrect postcode invalidates  her insurance. 
Its in the interests of justice  and fairness  that the complaint is allowed to go ahead.  
She said the issue about  the various mortgage  numbers needs  clarification. She said 
she has no knowledge of a re-mortgage  in 2006 or 2007 and thinks  that the 
mortgage was redeemed in 2007.  She said she needs proof  that she re-mortgaged  in 
2006 and 2007  and that the mortgage was redeemed in 2008. 
As Mrs S did not agree with what our investigator said, this matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN24881447my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking 
Santander to take any further action in relation to Mrs Ss complaint about multiple customer 
numbers. 
And I know that Mrs S would like this service to look into the complaints she raised about her 
home insurance, the incorrect postcode  and the various mortgage issues. But Santander 
has said these complaints were made too late and hasnt given this service  permission to 
look at them.  Santander is allowed  to raise an objection in this way. Its now for me to 
consider whether this service can look into the various issues, and Ive decided we cant. Ill 
explain why. 
To avoid  confusion, I will use the same complaint headings that our investigator used when 
she provided her assessment. 
Errors relating to the post code being recorded  incorrectly, in particular, home insurance 
policies being  set up for the wrong  post code
Its important for Mrs S to understand that this service can consider a wide variety of 
complaints about  financial  services,  but we arent free to look into every  complaint thats 
referred to us. The rules  that set out what complaints we can consider are the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA handbook.
One of the rules (2.8.2) says that we cannot  consider a complaint if it was referred  to us 
more than six months after the date on which the business sent a final response letter, 
unless the business consents to us considering the complaint. The exact wording  of the rule 
is: 
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)  more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution  communication
And in this case Santander  has not consented to us considering Mrs Ss complaint about 
issued related to her home insurance  policy.  
Ive seen the letter sent to Mrs S on 27 May 2015 and I can see that it addresses various  
issues related to her home insurance. I can also see that Mrs S was clearly given six months 
to refer that complaint to this service.  So Im satisfied that Mrs S should  have brought  this 
particular complaint to this service before 27 December  2015 for us to be able to look into it. 
Mrs S did make a referral  to this service back in 2016 and this included a complaint point 
about her home insurance. The records relating to this have been  deleted from our systems 
because of the amount of time thats passed. But I know that although Mrs S made the 
referral, we didnt investigate it. So Mrs S has referred this complaint to us in the past and 
we didnt look into it. 
Ref: DRN24881448Im going  to put that to one side, given that I cant be sure why we didnt investigate  it. And 
so Ive looked afresh at the issue of whether  Mrs S referred this matter to us within  the time 
limits set out in the DISP rules.  And Im satisfied that Mrs S didnt refer the home  insurance  
complaint to us on time. I say this because Mrs Ss current complaint was only submitted to 
this service in May 2019 when, for it to have been submitted on time, it should have been 
referred to this service  before 27 December 2015.   
Ive considered that Mrs S said she didnt receive the final response  letter  dated 27 May 
2015 and so didnt know about the six month deadline. But Im satisfied, on balance,  that she 
most likely did receive the letter. I say this because, as I mentioned  above, Mrs S brought 
the complaint  to this service in 2016  and I dont think she would have known to do that 
unless she got the letter, as it gave  her referral rights and guidance  about  how to bring the 
complaint to this service.  
The DISP  rules say I can consider whether  there might have been exceptional reasons why 
Mrs S wasnt  able to bring the complaint to this service within the six month time limit. But 
Im satisfied there werent.  I know that Mrs S became really  very ill in 2011 and was still 
recovering in 2015. But I think  that if Mrs S was well enough in 2015 to make the complaint 
to Santander,  then I see no reason why she wasnt well enough  to take the next step and 
bring the complaint to this service.  So Im satisfied that exceptional  circumstances do not 
apply in this case. 
Santander has also not given this service  permission to look into Mrs Ss complaint about  
the incorrect postcode being registered  with Santander. And this is also because  Santander  
said the complaint  wasnt brought  to this service within the six-month  period after the final 
response letter was issued. 
Ive looked at the final response letter dated  18 June  2018, where the complaint about  
Mrs Ss postcode is addressed by Santander. And I can see that Mrs S was provided with 
referral rights in this letter. This means Mrs S should have referred the complaint about  her 
postcode to this service  before 18 December  2018,  but she didnt do this. It was referred to 
this service in May 2019. So this means we cant look into this complaint.  
Ive also looked  at whether there  were  exceptional  circumstances  why Mrs S couldnt  have 
referred this complaint to us on time. But, as outlined above, I dont think  there  are. 
I would urge Mrs S to read the information  provided  by both our investigator  and Santander 
about her home insurance and postcode complaints, as it might  provide some clarity about  
Mrs Ss issues with both. For ease, Ive repeated it below, but I want to be clear  that I am not 
making any findings about either complaint point. 
Our investigator said although Santander  didnt  consent to us looking into the postcode 
complaint, it was happy to provide some information about how the postcode was recorded  
incorrectly. It said the correct address was held from 1990  but in 2006 the address was 
duplicated and this was recorded  on Mrs Ss details with an incorrect  postcode. Santander 
have said this was corrected in 2016.  Its also confirmed that correspondence was sent to 
the correct address during  this time.  
Our investigator also said Santander provided  evidence to show  Mrs S was never uninsured  
except for breaks in the policy where premiums had not been paid and Mrs S has never paid 
premiums for a policy not in her name or for another property.  
Ref: DRN24881449Having multiple  customer  numbers
Im satisfied there were  a number of different customer numbers for Mrs S, over a number of 
years, on Santanders  system. And Mrs S is concerned that having multiple numbers means  
that her identity is being used by someone  else. Mrs S discovered the multiple different 
numbers when she made a number of subject access requests to Santander in recent  years. 
The explanation provided by Santander is that it isnt uncommon for customers to have  
multiple customer numbers and it doesnt  see this as an indication that Mrs S is the victim of 
identity theft. So it acknowledges that Mrs S had multiple numbers attributed to her. 
Santander said its been going through a process,  for many customers and not just Mrs S, to 
sift out duplicate  numbers and ensure consumers only have one number. And it said Mrs S 
now has a single use customer  number.   
Ive considered whether having  multiple customer numbers has caused any detriment to Mrs 
S and I cant  see that it has. And Mrs S hasnt provided this service with any information to 
suggest that her identity  has been used by anyone else. In fact, shes provided  us with an up 
to date credit  report and this clearly  lists her credit status as excellent. This indicates that 
her credit rating hasnt  been negatively affected in any way.  
But I need to point out to Mrs S that I havent looked into whether her identity has been used 
by anyone else. Thats not within my remit. And I would urge Mrs S to get in contact with 
other agencies if she still has concerns that this is the case. 
So to sum up, while  Im satisfied that there were a number of different  numbers  attached to 
Mrs Ss name on Santanders system, I cant see that Santander  did anything wrong as such 
or that this has caused a detriment to Mrs S in any way and so I dont intend to ask 
Santander to take any further action. 
Multiple points relating  to a mortgage  account
When Santander responded  to Mrs Ss complaint about her mortgage in May 2019, it told 
her that she made her complaint more than six years after what she is complaining  about  
happened and more than three years after she realised or should have realised that there 
was a problem.  
What Santander  is referring to here are more of the DISP rules that set out what  complaints 
this service can and cant look at. The relevant rule (2.8.2) says:  
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
Ive looked at the first rule, which says Mrs S would need to have made the complaint  within  
six years  after the event being complained about.  There are several events in this case  
Mrs S mortgaging her property in around 2006/2007 and Mrs S redeeming  the mortgage  in 
2008. Mrs S said she doesnt  remember re-mortgaging  her property and is concerned that 
Ref: DRN248814410the payment made by her to redeem her mortgage was attributed  to the wrong postcode.  Im 
satisfied that both of these events took place more than six years prior to Mrs S making the 
complaint about  her mortgage to Santander in 2019.  And so, under this rule, we cant look at 
her complaint. 
But I also need to consider whether Mrs S has referred this complaint within three years from 
the date she became aware, or ought  reasonably to have become aware, that she had 
cause to complain.  
Mrs S said she wasnt aware of any possible issues with her mortgage until she received 
information from Santander following a SAR request. And I can see that she made a handful 
of SARs between  2017 and 2019.  I dont know if Ive seen all of the relevant  letters  related to 
Mrs S re-mortgaging her property. But I have seen  the mortgage  offer letter (dated 15 June 
2006) and the letter about setting up a new direct  debit for the mortgage (dated 31 July 
2007) and both of these were sent to Mrs S at the correct address. So if Mrs S had thought 
there was a problem  with the re-mortgage,  then she had enough information back  in 2007 to 
make a complaint.  So this means  Im satisfied Mrs S has referred this complaint  too late for it 
to be considered. 
Ive also considered whether there  were  exceptional  circumstances that mean Mrs S couldnt 
have brought  this complaint earlier. But Im satisfied that there arent. As mentioned  above,  
Im aware Mrs S became very unwell in 2011 and is continuing to recover, but the point at 
which I think she ought reasonably to have  known she had cause to complain pre-dates her 
becoming very unwell.  And this wouldnt have had an impact on her ability  to bring  a 
complaint in the three years  following  2007.  
I would, again,  urge Mrs S to read the information  provided by our investigator about the 
concerns she has about her mortgage, as it might  provide some clarity about  her concerns. 
For ease, Ive repeated  it below, but I want to be clear that I am not making any findings 
about this complaint point. 
She provided an outline of Mrs Ss mortgage with Santander. She said it looks like a 
mortgage account was opened  in 1989  then re-mortgaged  in 2006 and 2007 and a letter  
was sent to Mrs S confirming a direct debit had been set up for the new mortgage payments.  
And in September 2008, a redemption statement was issued for £28,429.50. A further  letter 
on 21 October 2008 confirmed the payment above had been received and the mortgage was 
paid off (redeemed). Santander  provided  a list of product  holdings  for Mrs S and our 
investigator couldnt see any other mortgage  after this one, redeemed  in 2008.
Our investigator said Mrs S also provided  a screenshot  showing a mortgage closure date of 
2015. However, Santander confirmed this is not what is showing when it conducts a product 
holding search  and it provided evidence that its product  holdings  search shows  the mortgage 
ended in 2008. Mrs S hasnt provided evidence to show she was still making payments in 
2015.
I know Mrs S will be disappointed that this service cant look into several of her complaint 
points. And I know that Mrs S is spending  time trying to piece together her dealings with 
Santander following  her very serious illness. While I have  a great deal of sympathy for 
Mrs S, Im satisfied that this service cannot look into the complaint points, as outlined  above. 
Ref: DRN248814411my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I am not asking Santander UK Plc to take any further action 
in relation to the complaint about multiple  customer numbers.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  in relation to the multiple  customer numbers complaint point before
29 October 2020. 
Martina Ryan  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2488144