K820x#14Complaint
Miss L complains Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  wont  refund a cash  withdrawal 
and an online bank  transfer which she disputes  to authorising.  
Background
I sent Miss L and Nationwide my provisional  decision on this matter  on 5 March  2021. In my 
provisional decision - which forms part of this final decision and is attached below  I said 
that I wasnt planning to uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Broadly I said that because I thought it was implausible  based on what Miss L had told me 
and the information we had - that someone unknown to Miss L: 
-stole her debit card and reader
-travelled thousands  of miles to another country
-registered on her online banking using her personal memorable data
-accessed her genuine  email  account with her personal security credentials
-and then returned her debit  card to her within a few days after committing fraud 
against her 
I went onto say that without stronger evidence, I wasnt persuaded someone carried  out the 
disputed transactions  without  Miss Ls knowledge.  So I thought it was more  likely Miss L 
consented and therefore authorised the transactions  she disputes.
I also considered some  other events that suggest Miss L may have been  the victim of fraud.  
But I found they didnt explain how a potential fraudster knew  so much about Miss Ls 
personal information without her being involved in some way. 
I then invited both parties  to submit any further  evidence or comments they would like me to 
consider before I reach  my final decision by 26 March 2021.  That time has now passed.  
Both Miss L and Nationwide havent  responded. So I will now decide  this matter. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done that, and for the same 
reasoning that I set-out in my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint. 
As neither party has raised any new arguments,  or sent me new information to consider, the 
reasons for reaching this decision are summarised above - and set-out in detail below in my 
provisional decision.  
My final decision
Ive decided to not uphold  Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Ref: DRN23677092Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Miss L complains Nationwide  Building  Society (Nationwide) wont refund  a cash  withdrawal and an 
online bank transfer which she disputes to authorising.  
Background
Miss L says that £500,  withdrawn from an ATM in the UK, on 19 September 2017 from her 
Nationwide Flex account  was done so fraudulently.  She adds that an online payment from the same 
account sent the following day, on 20 September 2017 for £10,000, was also not authorised by her.       
Ref: DRN23677093An amount of £900 was also credited into Miss Ls account on the 19 September 2017.  These funds  
were confirmed  as fraudulent and returned to source by Nationwide. 
Miss L says shed been living abroad for some four to five years around this time.  She adds that shed  
put aside considerable funds in her Nationwide  Flex account which  she used infrequently to top-up 
another of her UK accounts. 
A personal loan application  in Miss Ls name was also made  around this time with Nationwide for 
around £13,500.  Nationwide cancelled  this before  any funds were released.
Miss L says she was unable log into her Nationwide  account on the 24 September 2017.  
This prompted her to call Nationwide. Miss L says she then discovered someone had called 
Nationwide pretending to be her on the 21 September 2017.   Nationwide  asked her to attend  one of 
its branches in the UK with proof  of identity so that it could be satisfied she was its genuine customer. 
Miss L says she had the debit card for the account at this time.  And, as far as she was aware, it had 
always been  stored  in a suitcase in her bedroom along with all her UK banking cards and associated 
items.  
In October 2017, Miss L attended a Nationwide branch in the UK to show she was the genuine 
customer. Following this she made a claim  for the two transactions she disputes. Nationwide raised  
an indemnity with the bank the £10,000 transfer was sent to. 
Nationwide was able to recover £180 of this from the bank. This amount has been credited to Miss Ls 
Nationwide account. 
  
After Nationwide declined Miss Ls fraud claim, she complained.  Nationwide didnt uphold her 
complaint, so she referred the matter to this service.  
One of our investigators then looked into the matter and they didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. In summary they said: 
Both transactions were authenticated as theyd  seen evidence the correct  process was followed 
by CHIP  and PIN and a One Time Passcode (OTP).
Its most  likely Miss L gave her security details  to someone but did not give them  authority to 
make the transactions.  They said that because there was unusual activity  on Miss Ls account  
which they didnt  think she was involved with. Specifically, a £13,500 loan application, £900 
fraudulent credit, call from an unknown  third party and an attempted online login  from an IP 
address not associated with the UK or the country where Miss L resides.
So they didnt think Miss L authorised the two transactions  of £500 and £10,000. 
As someone would have  needed the bank card, PIN number, access  to Miss Ls email account, a 
Nationwide card reader and Miss Ls memorable  information  used for online login, our 
investigator said it was unlikely they could have got this information all on their own.  Because  of 
this they went on to say Miss L most likely  gave  someone her personal security information that 
enabled these transactions to happen.
Our investigator then said Miss L failed with gross  negligence. But they later amended  this and said 
she had failed  with intent and not gross negligence. That is, Miss L most  likely gave her personal  
details to someone else which is in breach of the accounts terms and conditions.
So they concluded that Nationwide had not done anything wrong and it doesnt need to refund the 
transactions to Miss L.
Miss L didnt agree with what our investigator said. Some of the key points she made are:
Ref: DRN23677094She never shared any banking  or personal  details with anyone  not even her closest family. 
Whilst living abroad, she had at times lived in shared dwellings. Her UK banking  cards and 
anything related to this were kept in luggage in her bedroom. Both the bedroom  and luggage 
werent locked.
 
Why was Nationwide only able to recover £180 from the bank the £10,000 was sent to, and why 
did the fraudster leave that amount behind. 
Why didnt Nationwide pick up on the unusual transfer of £10,000 and ask her questions  and/or 
block the account before  sending  it. Especially as shed previously only sent £2,000 from her 
Nationwide account  to her other UK bank.
She uses similar passwords and PIN numbers for everything. In the notes  section of her phone, 
she has a list of her accounts with the corresponding  username  and passwords. Miss L says she 
may previously have given a housemate access to her phone.
 
The only explanation Miss L can think of is that someone she shared her house with accessed 
her details from her phone, and either used her card themselves  or gave it to someone who 
travelled to the UK, and then put it back.     
As Miss L didnt agree  with what our investigator said, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done that Im planning  to not uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
I know this will disappoint  her, so Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Miss Ls genuine  card and PIN were used to 
make the disputed transaction relating to the £500 ATM withdrawal. Im also satisfied the £10,000  
bank transfer was authenticated using the genuine  card, PIN and OTP. 
But the regulations relevant  to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough  to enable Nationwide  to 
hold Miss L liable.  
The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (the PSRs  2009). 
Under the regulations, a payment transaction is regarded  as having been authorised by the payer  
only if the payer has given their consent to the execution of the payment transaction. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely  than not that Miss L 
consented to the transactions being made.
Im satisfied Miss Ls card wasnt cloned. Based on what our service has seen and the industry 
guidance available  to us, we have yet to see a complaint where the CHIP on a card has been cloned. 
So Im satisfied Miss Ls genuine card  the one she had in her possession  was used. 
Im also persuaded  that both transactions were most likely carried out by the same person, given the 
genuine card was needed for both transactions and they were done a day apart. 
Both transactions Miss L disputes required the genuine CHIP to be present. As Ive already  said, 
Nationwides records show that the ATM transaction was done so with the genuine card.  Similarly, in 
order to carry out the online  transfer  the CHIP had to be read by a Nationwide card reader after which 
an OTP was sent.  
Ref: DRN23677095Miss L says she was at home and not in the UK at that time. And to her knowledge her Nationwide 
card was always in her possession. It follows then that if somebody  else had carried out these  
transactions without her knowing, then they would have to take the card,  travel a substantial distance 
to the UK, and then have  returned it a few days after using  it. This is also the only explanation Miss L 
can put forward herself.   
Miss L says it could have been someone she shared her house with, who then accessed her account  
username and passwords from her phone, and either used her card themselves  or gave it to 
someone who travelled  to the UK, and then put it back. 
Ive thought about this, and it seems  implausible given the risk someone had to go through  in order to 
pull this off  especially  returning the card within a few days of the fraud before  Miss L could know it 
was even  gone. I accept however that its not impossible. 
Carrying out the ATM  transaction required only the card and knowledge  of the PIN number. But in 
order to carry out the online  transfer  a lot more  had to be known about Miss Ls personal information. 
Having closely reviewed  Nationwides records relating  to Miss Ls online banking activity, I note the 
following key events occurred between 12 and 24 of September 2017:  
-A OTP was generated and sent to Miss Ls email address  for her internet  banking registration 
and then was entered successfully
-A card security reader was used to verify  the customer
-There were  successful logins on four separate occasions, in which Miss Ls memorable data 
questions were answered correctly
Having given  this careful thought, I find it too implausible that someone unbeknownst to Miss L: 
-stole her debit card and reader
-travelled thousands of miles  to another country
-registered on her online banking using her personal memorable data
-accessed her genuine  email account with her personal security credentials
-and then returned her debit card to her within a few days after committing fraud against her 
So, on balance,  Im persuaded  Miss L either knew what was going on  or she had given all of this to 
someone for another intended purpose. If they then went  onto carry out transactions she didnt agree 
to or instruct,  that would  still mean she consented to them.
In considering this matter,  Id asked Miss L if anybody close to her and with access to her room had 
travelled to the UK and returned within a few days of her logging into her account.  Miss L hasnt said 
anything specific about any individual.  
She says its possible someone  she knew  did this - or that they gave her details  and card to 
somebody else to do so. But given  how close someone needed to be to her in order to effect  the 
fraud, Id expect Miss L to know more  about who specifically could have done this.  
So, without stronger  evidence, Im not persuaded someone carried this out without Miss Ls 
knowledge. So I think its more likely Miss L consented and therefore authorised these  transactions. 
In coming to this conclusion  Id like to assure Miss L that Ive thought very carefully about  all the 
irregular and suspicious events surrounding her account at this time. This includes 
-Miss Ls online banking being re-set  on 12 September 2017
Ref: DRN23677096-a fraudulent payment of £900 being paid into her account the same day the ATM transaction 
was carried out which was later returned to source.
-A personal loan of £13,500 being applied  for in Miss Ls name - albeit the funds  were not 
dissipated by Nationwide.
-Someone calling Nationwide on the 21 September 2017 purporting to be Miss L and saying 
the £10,000 was a loan to a friend, and confirming  theyd made the loan application.
-Once logged in, Miss Ls online  banking  email address being changed to a different one to the 
one we know  as genuine. 
-A failed login on Miss Ls account from a country other than the UK and where she resides.
-An application for a substantial overdraft limit. 
I accept that all these activities,  especially  in the context  of what Miss L is complaining  about,  raise 
serious questions about whether there was someone  or several people - conspiring to commit  fraud 
against her. 
But the reasons I explained  above, Im not persuaded these activities explain how a fraudster  knew so 
much about Miss Ls personal data - and how they had possession of her card and reader without her 
being involved  in some  way 
For the sake of completeness, Ive also looked  into whether there was a possibility another  card was 
ordered and then used  to carry  out these transactions  especially as Miss Ls registered address with 
Nationwide is still here in the UK. Nationwide have  given  me records to show that there was only ever 
one card issued for this account up until the disputed transactions took place.      
I note Miss L questions  why Nationwide didnt  take more action to prevent the £10,000 transfer by 
blocking it as unusual activity given her previous behaviour and spending pattern. Nationwide say it 
didnt need to as the transfer was verified  by the genuine CHIP being read by its reader, and the OTP 
being correctly entered. 
I think  this would be a valid consideration,  and something Id have to give more thought to if I didnt 
think Miss L likely authorised  these  transactions.  But Ive already said I find its most likely  she did.  
Miss L questions why £180 recovered by way of indemnity wasnt returned to her Nationwide account. 
But Ive seen  Miss Ls banking records which show that it was. 
So, after weighing  everything up, Im currently minded to not uphold Miss Ls complaint 
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to not uphold  Miss Ls complaint.   
Ref: DRN2367709