K820x#14complaint
Mr A says that Available Car Limited (ACL) mis-sold  him a regular monthly premium 
insurance policy. 
background
ACL sold Mr A the policy with a five year credit  agreement in a meeting in 2007.  The policy 
included life cover. It cost around £23.68 a month and for a successful claim wouldve paid 
the balance of the loan off.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint but ACL disagreed with this. So, the complaint 
came to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 30 March 2019,  a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mr As complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 26 April 2019. Mr As representatives have acknowledged  that 
they have received the provisional  decision  and they have no further submissions  they wish 
to make.  At the time of writing ACL has not responded  despite  us sending the provisional 
decision by email and post to their recognised addresses. I consider that ACL has had 
sufficient time to make a response  had they wished to. So I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mr As complaint. I explain why below.
ACL had to make sure Mr A agreed  to take PPI and that he understood it was optional.  
Neither party has given  us much detail about  what happened at the meeting.  So Ive relied 
more on what the documents  from the time show. Neither party  has been able to provide the 
document called  Statement of Demands and Needs from the sale.  But ACL has provided  a 
sample of the document. I think  it is more likely  that this is the document  that would have 
been a part of the sales process.  
There is a box that records the Customer Decision  about the question Do you wish to 
purchase this product? To get the cover Mr A would have had to circle the Yes  in that box. 
The box also contained  a No. So it seems that Mr A would have circled the Yes  and his 
choice was reflected  in the credit agreement  he signed. Underneath the part of the 
agreement where  Mr A signed for the credit, is a section called DETAILS OF INSURANCE  
PRODUCTS. It says, The purchase of any of the insurances specified  within  this 
agreement is optional. Beneath  this is specified the insurance Mr A agreed to. 
Ref: DRN28285962The above  suggests Mr A knew about  and wanted PPI and realised he had a choice about 
taking it. So taking everything into account  I think its likely Mr A knew the PPI was optional 
and chose to take it.
ACL recommended  the insurance to Mr A. So they had to take adequate steps to make sure 
it was suitable  for him. And I think ACL did take adequate steps, because I think the life 
cover was suitable for Mr A. The policy provided  a dedicated source of money to discharge 
the new liability in the event Of Mr As death during the term, so I am not persuaded that 
ACL has done anything wrong. 
ACL also needed  to properly explain the insurances costs, benefits,  exclusions and 
limitations. The credit agreement shows the policys monthly cost but Its possible that ACL 
didnt give Mr A enough proper information about  the insurance. But for the same reasons 
that I think the policy was suitable, I dont think that better information about the policy would 
have put Mr A off the insurance.  So I dont  think that Mr A lost out as a result of anything 
ACL may have done wrong.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr A. But I dont think theres 
enough evidence  to show the life cover was mis-sold in the way he described and Im 
satisfied it was not unsuitable advice  based on his circumstances at the time.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so I make no award against Available  Car Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  2 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2828596