K820x#14Complaint
Mr T is unhappy  that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) has declined  to offer him a refund after he 
was the victim of a scam.  
Background
What Mr T says happened
In 2014, Mr T met a woman  online.  He says he built a close relationship with this woman  
over a few months  and he honestly  thought they were in a loving relationship.
Mr T had been speaking with this woman,  who we now know to be a fraudster,  for 
around 9 months,  when  she started  to ask for money. Initially  it was for small amounts 
but the amounts soon escalated, with Mr T thinking he was helping out with the costs  
of some building work she was having  completed  in Malaysia. On each occasion, Mr T 
was told he would be paid back.  The fraudster had told Mr T she was about to come  
into a large sum of money. Mr T has told us he continued to send her money  as he was 
lonely at the time, she seemed nice and he didnt want to upset her. 
Overall, Mr T thinks he sent the fraudster over £100,000. The majority of these funds  
were paid from accounts Mr T held with other  high street  banks and via loans he took 
out in order to be able to meet her requests  the majority of which do not form part of 
this complaint. However, TSB has been able to identify at least 15 transactions  that left 
his current account  between November 2015  and July 2016 which amount to around 
£45,000. Some of these transactions were made in branch  and some  were made via 
Mr Ts online banking and were  sent in smaller  denominations ranging from £1,000  to 
£5,000.
Mr T has told us he remembers speaking to someone from TSB about some  of the 
transactions but he cant remember  what  he said. Hes also told us that he had no idea 
he was speaking to a fraudster until the police contacted him in 2016  as they believed 
he had been sending money to an account linked with criminal activity.  Mr T says hes 
aware that he is unlikely  to get all of his money  back, but he currently has no funds 
remaining and is subject  to an IVA to pay back the borrowing he took out to fund some  
of these payments  to the fraudster.
What TSB has said
TSB decided  not to refund Mr T. It said Mr T had authorised all of the transfers himself 
and when he was questioned about some of them, in branch on 10 March 2016, he had 
deceived branch staff who had been  persuaded by a cover-story  hed provided  them  
with about facilitating the sale of a business of his abroad. Because  of this, TSB didnt 
think it should be held liable for the transactions.
Mr T didnt  agree with TSBs response and so the complaint was brought  to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. He felt TSBs  questions surrounding  the transactions had been proportionate at 
the time and Mr T had persuaded branch staff that the transactions  were  for a legitimate 
purpose  making  it very difficult for TSB identify  that he was at risk of financial harm  
and stop the transactions  leaving his account.  
Ref: DRN24464392Mr T disagreed and reiterated that he would like to receive at least some  of his money back. 
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  it would 
be fair and reasonable to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
It is not in dispute  that Mr T authorised the scam payments himself. He was duped  by the 
fraudster into believing  he was helping out someone he thought  he was in a genuine 
relationship with. And so, I accept that these were authorised  payments  even  though Mr T 
was the victim of a cruel and sophisticated  scam.  He either logged into his online banking  
and entered his security details or he went into branch and provided enough security 
information to allow the payments to be processed on his behalf. So, although he did not 
intend the money to go to a fraudster,  under  the Payment Services Regulations 2009, and 
the terms and conditions of his account, Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the time, I 
consider TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place  to look out for unusual transactions  or other 
signs that might  indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud  (among 
other things). This is particularly  so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional  steps, or made  additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some  cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility  of financial harm  from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking 
Protocol where appropriate.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, TSB should have been on the look-out 
for unusual  and out of character transactions. But I dont think there was anything 
about the initial transactions that shouldve stood out as unusual  and out of character  
or put TSB on notice that Mr T mightve  been  at risk of financial harm.  The first 
transactions were  for relatively  small amounts and the majority  had a number of days  
between each payment,  some were spread out over a couple of months. However, as 
the transactions became  more frequent and the total outlay increased,  I think  the 
activity did start to look unusual, especially as all the payments were going abroad  and 
Ref: DRN24464393a number of new payees were set up on the account. TSB doesnt  dispute this and it 
did intervene. 
When Mr T went into branch to make, what looks to be around the 7th transaction, he was 
questioned by a member  of branch staff before the transfer was processed.  TSB had noted  
that there  were numerous recent transactions to international  accounts, the majority of which 
had been sent to new payees. This was unusual and the staff were right to question Mr T 
about it. 
TSB has provided me with its customer contact notes that were  completed at the time and 
its clear that the branch staff were sufficiently concerned about the possibility of fraud to ask 
Mr T some questions  and to warn him about social engineering scams. Accordingly, the only 
question I need  to consider now is whether TSB did enough in all the circumstances. And I 
think they did. Ill explain why. 
Due to the time that has elapsed, Mr T has told us he cant  remember what questions  
were asked of him or what his answers  were at the time. However, the notes 
completed in branch  at the time suggest Mr T told TSB branch staff that the payments 
he was making were in relation to the sale of his business abroad. Mr T seems to have  
told branch staff that he has a contact who is selling the business on his behalf  which  
is why he is sending money to and from different  people. The notes state that Mr T 
was told it didnt seem right that he was sending money abroad for this reason and 
that branch staff were worried about  his money.  Mr T told TSB that everything was 
above board  and not to worry. The notes then state that Mr T was warned about 
social engineering  scams  and he commented  that he is well aware that this type of 
thing happens  but he is fine. There are also additional notes added when Mr T goes 
into TSB to take out some additional  borrowing some months later where he appears  
to use the same cover-story  he informs TSB he is in the final stages of the sale of a 
gold mine in Malaysia  alongside five of his friends who he has known for a long time. 
Mr T has told us that he cant remember telling TSBs branch staff this but he hasnt 
told us he didnt. TSBs notes were  added in branch at the time the payment was 
discussed and so I see no reason to question what was documented at the time  
especially given Mr Ts testimony. And so it appears  that Mr T was able to come up 
with a plausible cover-story to explain the reason behind the numerous international 
payments he had been making. At this point, Mr T had made several payments abroad 
over a number of months and so his explanation could have appeared plausible to 
TSB.
Mr T has said he continued to send money  as he did not wish to upset the woman who 
he thought he was speaking to. I want to stress  here that I have significant sympathy for 
the position Mr T found himself in, but ultimately, he hasnt been  able to tell us why he 
told TSB the payments related to the sale of his business. And the explanation he seems  
to have given  for making the payments made it very difficult for TSB to uncover the real 
reason for the payments, and ultimately  to step in and prevent the scam from taking 
place. On this occasion,  Mr T was able to persuade TSB the transactions  were genuine 
and his explanation seemed plausible and convincing. TSB had an obligation to process 
the payments  at Mr Ts request and I can see why, in this particular case,  there was no 
concern that he was falling victim to a scam.  And so I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to say that TSB should now refund these transactions  to Mr T.
Ref: DRN24464394Mr T eventually reported the scam to TSB some two years  after it took place. Im satisfied  
that TSB did what it could  to recover Mr Ts money once it had become aware  of the scam  
but, unsurprisingly, due to the time that elapsed since the payments were made, the money  
had already been removed from the accounts by the fraudsters. 
I am really very sorry to hear about the circumstances Mr T has found himself in. This is a 
particularly cruel scam and one that relies on the good nature of its victims. But I dont  think  
it would  be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that TSB should be liable for his losses.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2446439