K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited  (previously  General Accident)  mis-sold  
him an endowment  policy to repay  his mortgage,  in 1999. He says he was told the policy 
was guaranteed to repay his mortgage  and provide an additional £35,000.
background
In 1999 Mr G was a first time buyer. At the time he was in work as a fitter and didnt have 
any dependents. He was borrowing £34,240,  over 95% of the value of the property. The 
policy was set up with the same  sum assured and was invested into the With Profits  fund.  
He surrendered the policy in 2001/2002. 
Mr G complained about the sale of the policy during 2019 and it took some  time for the 
complaint to arrive  with the correct party Aviva. Aviva  issued  its final response on 1 May 
2019 not upholding it. It was satisfied  the policy was suitable for Mr G. 
Not happy with that, Mr G asked us to look into this. Our investigator also concluded the sale 
of the policy  was suitable for him. She also found no evidence that Mr G had been  provided 
with a guarantee. Mr G has asked  for the matter to be reviewed as he was told the policy 
would repay  his mortgage and provide an additional  lump sum. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr G has complained that he was guaranteed  the policy would reach the target amount and 
that he would receive  an additional £35,000 on maturity. Mr Gs policy was a unit linked 
policy invested into the With Profits fund. This was a pooled  investment, investing into 
equities, bonds, cash and other areas.  With Profits  funds  are accepted within  the industry  as 
being a low risk investment area.  
The fund was dependent on the particular performance of the underlying  investments. Im 
not aware there was any guarantee within the policy itself that it would reach  the target 
amount. I accept the policy  might have been  sold in a positive light, with the prospect  of a 
lump sum in addition, but that is far from providing a guarantee.  Im also mindful of the sales  
documentation that Mr G signed - the fact find - to confirm the risks of the policy  had been 
explained. The product literature provided  during the sale illustrated the policy  returning  
lower than the sum required at the lower  growth  rate used. Further  explanations that higher 
or lower amounts than that illustrated  could  be achieved were provided,  as was an 
explanation the policy wasnt guaranteed. Overall  I dont  uphold  Mr Gs complaint that he 
was led to believe the policy was guaranteed. And as the policy wasnt  guaranteed to reach 
the target  amount, it follows I dont find it was guaranteed to achieve  a lump sum in addition 
either.
I have gone on to consider whether the recommendation was suitable.  Having  considered 
this carefully, I find it was because:
Although Mr G didnt have any investment experience that didnt preclude him from 
having a mortgage endowment policy if he was willing  to accept risk.
Ref: DRN26286072The fact find records Mr Gs attitude to risk with regards to repaying his mortgage as 
three on a scale of 1-5.  3 was recorded as I am fairly  conservative but I will accept a 
reasonable level of risk. It isnt clear  whats meant  by reasonable level of risk. But 
there were options to not take any risk or a small risk. Mr G didnt select these when 
he could have done so. The With Profits fund is accepted to be a low risk investment 
and Im satisfied the recommendation  was commensurate with Mr Gs attitude to risk 
selection. 
Im also satisfied Mr Gs circumstances  meant  he was in a position to take risk. He 
was single at the time with no dependents. He had disposable income, after taking 
account of the premium,  with which to build up savings to protect  against  any 
possible shortfall. The premium itself was within the range Mr G said he wanted  to 
spend. 
The policy included life cover, critical illness cover and premium  protection to protect 
the mortgage. This meant the mortgage was protected should Mr G be diagnosed 
with a specified critical illness and the endowment was protected if Mr G couldnt pay 
premiums due to being sick. 
The adviser did a comparison with a repayment mortgage. So Mr G was aware there  
were other options available  that didnt rely on an investment to repay the mortgage.
 
Overall, I find the recommendation was suitable for Mr Gs needs and circumstances at the 
time. It follows  that I dont  uphold this complaint and I make no award against Aviva.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2628607