K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. The PPI was sold by GE Capital  Woodchester, but 
Santander has accepted responsibility for the sale so Ill refer just to Santander below.
background
In 2005 Mr C took out a loan from Santander. He also took out a monthly premium  PPI 
policy, to cover his loan repayments if he was unable to work  because of accident  or 
sickness. It provided life cover for the loan too. The policy was cancelled  in 2007.
Mr C feels the policy  was mis-sold. Among other things, he says he doesnt recall PPI being 
mentioned and didnt know he had it. He says he never knowingly took out insurance of this 
sort and it mustve been added without his consent.  And he feels  he didnt really need PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. But Mr C disagrees,  so its 
come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website,  and Ive taken 
this into account  in deciding Mr Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C thinks the PPI mustve been sold during a meeting, but Santanders  records  suggest it 
was sold over the phone. I think those records are likely to be right.  Not surprisingly  after so 
long, theres no recording  or note of that phone  discussion  available  now. But Santander has 
provided a copy of the script which it says was used for calls of this sort at that time.
This script prompts the Santander  representative to make it clear on the call that having  PPI 
is optional and wont affect the outcome of the loan application, and also to get a customers 
specific agreement before adding it to their account.  I cant  be sure that such  a phone  call 
took place with Mr C or, if it did, exactly what was said. But I think  it probably did happen and 
that the representative wouldve likely stuck to, or at least broadly followed,  that script.  
So in my view its likely  Mr C was made  aware  that he had a choice. And I think its unlikely 
Santander wouldve  added the PPI unless  hed agreed to it.
Ive also seen the loan agreement that Mr C signed   probably when it was sent to him 
following a phone call first, as Ive described.  After the main part of the agreement,  theres a 
section dealing with PPI. It says If you want to buy the optional Standard Life, Accident and 
Sickness Capital Care credit insurance (which  is what Santander called the PPI), please 
tick box. The box has been  ticked to indicate  that Mr C did want it, as has a further box 
confirming hed received  a copy of the policy summary for this Credit Protection  Insurance. 
Mr Cs name  was written in as the person to be insured by the PPI. And Mr C signed  to 
confirm those answers, separately from where he signed the overall agreement.
Ref: DRN22913672Mr C has said that some of the handwriting on the agreement, and the ticks in the boxes, 
werent his own. It may be that Santander filled in some parts of the agreement before 
sending it to him, following a phone discussion first. But in any event Mr C signed the 
agreement with those  boxes ticked,  and as far as Im aware he had the opportunity  to read 
the paperwork carefully before doing so. I think its reasonable  for me to assume that he did 
read it and that by signing the agreement he was confirming it reflected what  he wanted. And 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he queried  the contents  with Santander at the time. 
So weighing everything up, although  after so many years he doesnt now remember doing it, 
and whatever he mayve  done on other  occasions,  I think its likely Mr C chose to have PPI 
with this loan,  knowing he didnt have to take it out. And looking  at the loan agreement,  Id 
reach that same view even if the phone call didnt happen in the way Santander suggests.
From what  Ive been told, I think its unlikely that Santander gave  Mr C a personal  
recommendation about whether to take out the PPI. This meant it didnt need to check 
whether the PPI would  be right for him. He had to decide that for himself. But Santander did 
have to make sure he got good enough information  about the policy to be able to do that.
 
Its possible Mr C wasnt given all of the detailed  information that he shouldve  had. He 
certainly feels he wasnt.  But looking at the phone script, and bearing  in mind he signed to 
confirm hed been given a summary of the policy before signing the loan agreement, I think 
Mr C wouldve understood what the PPI was intended to do. He also knew  what  it would 
cost, which  was set out in the agreement. And I think  that it couldve been useful for him.  
Thats because Mr C has told us he was self-employed  at that time,  so he wouldnt have got 
any sick pay if he couldnt work owing to injury  or illness. Hes also told us he didnt have any 
significant savings  which he couldve  used  to make his loan repayments if he wasnt earning.  
He was borrowing  quite  a large sum, over a fairly  long period. And although  Santander 
hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the relevant policy, based on what I know 
about him and about other  PPI policies being sold at that time,  its likely Mr C was eligible for 
the cover  and wouldnt have been affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
So overall, even  if Mr C wasnt  given  all of the details about  the PPI that he shouldve got, I 
dont think having  better  or clearer information  wouldve  altered his decision to take it out. 
Ive taken into account that Mr C has told us his wife was working at the time, was being  paid 
more than his earnings  and that he feels she wouldve been able to make the repayments on 
the loan if necessary. But the loan was for five years  and peoples circumstances can 
change over time. The loan was just in Mr Cs name, so it was solely  his responsibility.  And I 
think the loss of his income wouldve likely  had a significant effect on their overall financial 
position. So this point doesnt  change my views explained  above. 
As Ive said,  the cost of the PPI was stated in the loan agreement that Mr C signed. Ive not 
been told anything  to show it was unaffordable for him at that time. And anyway, as he was 
paying for the PPI monthly, he could cancel it at any point without further cost if his situation 
changed or he no longer wanted  it.
I know Mr C feels  strongly  about  his complaint and has put time and effort into it. I realise 
hell be disappointed  at this outcome. And Ive thought carefully about everything hes told 
us. But on balance, looking at all the information  Ive got, including  the signed loan 
agreement, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN22913673my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc doesnt have  to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291367