K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading  as Smart-Pig.com,  (FCL), gave
him loans  that he couldnt afford  to repay.
background
Mr E took out three payday loans with FCL whilst  he was a student. Details of the loans are
below.
Loan number Date of Loan Loan amount  (excluding 
interest)Date repaid
1. 15/2/2015 £250 26/2/2015
2. 27/2/2015 £350 18/4/2015
3. 22/4/2015 £350 Unpaid and 
balance sold 
to a third party
Mr E said that the loans  were lent irresponsibly. He had a gambling problem at the time and
minimal income. He had to borrow from other lenders to ensure his rent was paid in time.
Mr E said that he had to continuously top up FCLs loans which  it allowed  him to do. His debt
continued to rise and his credit score worsened  but FCL still allowed him to borrow. Mr E
said that FCL should have made  checks about his problem gambling  and other lending  as it
had access to his credit file.
FCL said that the loans were based  on the amount of Mr Es student finance  and his wages
of around £500  per month. It had also carried  out a credit check for each loan and said that
Mr E was up to date with all his credit  commitments  and there was nothing  on his credit file
which showed that he was using other short term credit.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator concluded that FCLs  checks didnt go far enough for all of the loans. She
also said that all of the loans were unaffordable and recommended that FCL should:-
- refund all interest and charges that Mr E paid on all of the loans;
  pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of
  settlement*;
- offset any refund against  any capital correctly  outstanding, and pay the remaining
  amount to Mr E;
- remove  any negative  information about these  loans  from Mr Es credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCL to take off tax from this interest. FCL must give Mr E
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If FCL intends to apply
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
FCL disagreed and responded  to say that its checks went  far enough. FCL said that
obtaining bank  statements  and utility bills wouldnt have been proportionate  for its loans and
queried what checks should have been  conducted  to meet  this services requirements. FCL
also noted that the adjudicator had divided  Mr Es maintenance  loan amount  by three to
obtain a monthly  maintenance  income amount. But it said that its affordability model, which
had been approved by its regulator,  was based on termly figures  rather  than monthly  figures
Ref: DRN20967362because the loans are on a termly  basis.  Based on its figures, FCL said that Mr E had
sufficient disposable  income to repay the loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr E 
and to FCL on 14 February 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that FCL was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have made  checks to make 
sure Mr E could afford to repay  each  of the loans  before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr E was borrowing, and his lending  
history. But there was no set list of checks FCL had to do.
I explained that the Financial Conduct  Authority was the regulator  at the time Mr E borrowed 
from FCL.  Its regulations  require lenders  to take reasonable steps  to assess the customers
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments
without undue difficulty, and that this means  borrowers should  be able to make  their
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet
these repayments.
FCL had told us that it had obtained  details  of Mr Es income and carried  out a credit check
before lending to Mr E. I could see from the information it had provided to us that it was
provided with details of Mr Es student maintenance loan on the date he took out Loan 1.
This showed that Mr E had received £1,191.30 on 5 January 2015 and that he would receive
£1,227.40 on 20 April 2015.
FCL had also told us that we should consider the maintenance  loan on a termly rather  than a
monthly basis (for income purposes). I disagreed.  None of the loans were for a whole  term.
With regard to Loan 1, for example, Mr E had already had his maintenance loan for around
six weeks. It was likely that much  of the maintenance loan would already have been spent.
Loan 1 was repayable within two weeks and not at the end of the student loan period. 
Loan 2 was for about half a term and Loan  3 covered the summer holiday period as well as 
part of the summer  term. Moreover bills are generally paid monthly rather than termly so it 
would have been likely that Mr E would budget  on a monthly basis. So for the purposes of 
assessing affordability, Id thought considering  monthly income amounts rather than termly
income amounts  would have been more  appropriate.
Id also said that I would have reasonably expected FCL to have carried  out appropriate 
checks to reflect the nature  of the loans  and because  Mr Es income was mainly  in the form 
of student finance which  was a fixed amount for the year.
Id also noted  that Loans  2 and 3 appeared  to be repayable from the following student 
finance payment  so that would have  reduced  Mr Es student finance for the following term. In 
this case, Id thought the reduced income amount should have been taken into account in 
calculating affordability  for Loan 3.
FCL had also said that Mr E was earning  £500  a month. Id noted that this wasnt  actually
Ref: DRN20967363the case, but I didnt know whether FCL knew that before Loans 1 and 2. Mr E earned 
£29.25 in January 2015 and £497.25 in February 2015. It had a bank  statement  extract 
dated 4 March 2015 which showed that.
FCL had only provided us with the results  of Mr Es credit check before Loan 3. Whilst this
showed no defaults or delinquencies or other  short term loans, it did show that his current
account was near its overdraft limit and that a mail order  account was overlimit. But overall I
didnt think the credit check alone  should  have caused FCL concerns.
Loan 1
Loan 1 was for the amount of £250.  FCL hadnt told us the amount of interest payable but I
noted from the credit report that it appeared that a total of £272 was payable  on the due
repayment date.  Mr Es maintenance loan calculated on a monthly basis  was around £397.
FCL had said that Mr Es other monthly  income was £500. So, he would have had a total 
monthly income of around £897.  No information about Mr Es outgoings had been provided 
by FCL. It didnt appear to have been requested.
But as the loan repayment amount was a significant proportion of Mr Es income, I thought 
FCL shouldve gathered  some further  financial information here,  such  as Mr Es normal living
expenses and regular  financial  commitments.  I couldnt see that it had done this. So I didnt 
think FCL had gathered  enough information here about Mr E to reasonably assess if he 
could afford  to repay Loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr E repaid  Loan  1 two days before the due date and the next day he took out Loan 2.
Id thought that behaviour  might have suggested  that Mr Es finances were under  pressure.  
The repayment amount for Loan  2 had substantially increased to £487.60  although Mr E had
almost eight weeks to repay  it. So I would  have reasonably expected  Mr E to have  prepared  
to repay  the loan amount  over this period. I could see that the loan amount of £487.60 
equated to around  £301  per month.
Mr E also appeared  to have provided an extract from his bank statement on the date of the
loan to show his wages of £497.25 being  received on 26 February  2015.  But again no
information about Mr Es outgoings appeared to have been  requested.
I could see that the monthly equivalent  loan amount  was again a substantial  proportion of 
Mr Es monthly income. So, again I thought it would have been  proportionate here for FCL to
have gathered some further financial information, such  as Mr Es normal living expenses and
regular financial commitments. I couldnt see that it had done this. So I didnt think  FCL had 
gathered enough information  about Mr E to reasonably assess if he could afford  to repay  
Loan 2.
Loan 3
Mr E borrowed Loan 3 two days after repaying Loan  2. It was the second time hed asked for
credit very shortly  after repaying  the previous loan. Id considered  this to be an indicator of
potential financial difficulties. The loan was again  for £350, but FCL hadnt told us the
amount of interest  due. And as Id said above, FCL would have been aware that Mr Es
maintenance loan had been reduced  by the amount of the repayment for Loan 2. So,
calculated on a monthly basis the maintenance  loan was around £246.
Ref: DRN20967364Id thought that FCL should have again  been  concerned about Mr Es frequent loan requests. 
Id thought they might have suggested  to FCL that Mr E was using short term loans as a
supplement to his normal income, rather than using them  to meet  a temporary  one-off
problem. It also would  have known by the time of Loan 3 that Mr Es earned income was a
variable amount. Id thought the regularity of Mr Es loan applications  might  also have 
suggested to FCL by the time of Loan 3 that it should look in much  more depth at Mr Es true 
financial situation to assess the affordability of its lending. It couldve done this in a number 
of ways. It couldve asked  for evidence  of Mr Es income and expenditure such as payslips 
and bills, or it couldve looked at things like his bank  statements.
Although I didnt think the checks FCL made for Loans 1 to 3 were sufficient, that in itself
didnt mean  that Mr Es complaint  about  these loans should succeed. I also needed to see
whether what I considered to be proportionate checks  would have shown  FCL that Mr E
couldnt sustainably  afford Loans  1 to 3.
Loan 1
With regard to Loan 1, as Id said above,  I would have expected FCL to ask about Mr Es
normal living  expenses and regular financial commitments whilst taking into account Mr Es
declared monthly income of around £900.  Mr E had told us hed spent £400 on rent, around 
£30 on travel and £250  to £300 on food. Id reviewed Mr Es bank statements for the month  
before Loan 1 to see what better  checks would  have shown FCL. These didnt show a 
payment of £400,  nor cash withdrawals for around this amount which could have been used 
to pay such an amount. I could see there was a payment of £350 earlier in January 2015  
and again at the end of February 2015  and in May 2015 which might have been used for 
rent or other living costs.  But as this was paid around every two months,  this would have 
suggested a monthly  amount of around  £175. There appeared to be other regular 
expenditure of around £40. Even if Mr Es cash withdrawals of £115 were used for living 
costs, this would have meant that Mr E had total monthly living costs of around  £330.
Id noted that Mr Es figures were  different  from those shown in the bank statements. As it 
had been almost four years since these events  occurred,  I thought  the statements offered a 
more accurate picture of Mr Es financial situation  at that time. These appeared to show  that 
Mr E would have had sufficient disposable income left for unexpected  expenses after paying 
living costs  and the loan repayment  amount.  So, I didnt think  that carrying  out better  checks  
wouldve uncovered  anything that wouldve stopped FCL from giving the loan to Mr E. So, I 
didnt intend to uphold Mr Es complaint  about Loan  1.
Loan 2
With regard to Loan 2, as Id said above,  I would have expected FCL to again  have asked 
about Mr Es normal living  costs and regular financial commitments  whilst taking into account
Mr Es declared monthly income of around £900.  Id reviewed  Mr Es bank statements for
the month before Loan 2 to see what better checks would  have shown  FCL.  These  showed
regular expenditure of around £85 and cash  withdrawals of £125 which might have been 
used to pay for living costs. Taking  these and the monthly equivalent loan repayment  
amount of £301  referred to above into account resulted in total monthly regular expenditure 
of around £511.
So it appeared that the loan repayments would have appeared to be sustainable. So, I didnt
Ref: DRN20967365think that carrying out better checks wouldve  uncovered  anything  that wouldve  stopped  
FCL from giving the loan to Mr E. So, I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Es complaint about 
Loan 2.
Loan 3
With regard to Loan 3, as Id said above,  Id thought FCL should have independently  
reviewed the true state of Mr Es finances.  So Id tried to do this by looking at Mr Es bank 
statements for the month before  Loan 3 to see what  better  checks  would have shown FCL. I 
didnt think it was unreasonable  to rely on these.
If FCL had checked Mr Es financial information  before Loan 3, it would have seen that he
was earning less than hed declared, around £435.  But, it also would  have become aware
that Mr E appeared to be gambling  heavily with gambling expenditure of over £1,300.  Mr E
had also taken out two other short term loans totalling £200.
Mr Es spending on gambling  and his need to borrow to fund his gambling  I thought  made it
clear that any new borrowing was unlikely to be repaid  sustainably.  So, I didnt think  a
responsible lender would  have lent if it had known how much  money  Mr E was spending  on
gambling each  month.  So overall, if FCL had carried out what  I considered to be 
proportionate checks before Loan 3, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that 
Loan 3 wasnt  sustainable.
So, Id thought if FCL had done what I considered to be proportionate checks, it would have 
seen the problems with Mr Es financial  situation. And as a responsible lender, I didnt think  it
would have agreed to lend Loan  3 to him. So, I thought that FCL needed  to pay Mr E some
compensation relating to Loan  3.
Subject to any further representations by Mr E or FCL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, 
trading as Smart-Pig.com to:-
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr E had paid on Loan 3, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  3 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    FCL should  also refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  3 (since T will expect to collect  this money from
    Mr E).
2. As Loan 3 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr E in full and no
    deductions should be made by FCL. But, if FCL buys back Loan 3 from T within
    21 days of Mr Es acceptance of my decision,  it may apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3, and pay any balance to Mr E;
    and
3. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit file with regard to Loan 3
    (if FCL buys it back). If Loan 3 has to remain  with T, then FCL is to assist Mr E, so far
    as it is able, to correct  his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCL to take off tax from this interest. FCL must give Mr E
a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If FCL intends to apply
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Ref: DRN20967366Both Mr E and FCL responded to say that they accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr E and FCL have accepted my provisional decision and given me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require FCL to pay
Mr E some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this decision,  
I order FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com to:-
1. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr E had paid on Loan 3, and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balance on Loan  3 has been  transferred to a third party  (T),
    FCL should  also refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included in the
    outstanding balance  on Loan  3 (since T will expect to collect  this money from
    Mr E).
2. As Loan 3 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr E in full and no
    deductions should be made by FCL. But, if FCL buys back Loan 3 from T within
    21 days of Mr Es acceptance of my decision,  it may apply the refunds referred to
    above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 3, and pay any balance to Mr E;
    and
3. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit file with regard to Loan 3
    (if FCL buys it back). If Loan 3 has to remain  with T, then FCL is to assist Mr E, so far
    as it is able, to correct  his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCL to take off tax from this interest. FCL must give Mr E
a certificate showing how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If FCL intends to apply
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2096736