K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc hasnt paid to repair her car under her 
mechanical breakdown  insurance policy. 
background
Mrs Ds car broke down and was taken to a garage  for repair  by a breakdown recovery  
service. The garage inspected the car and said the wheel bearing  and drive shaft needed  
repairing and contacted Pinnacle to claim for the repairs. 
Pinnacle appointed an engineer to inspect the car. They said the wheel bearing  had worn 
out. They said because  the car had continued to be driven the wheel bearing had then 
collapsed causing  damage to the drive shaft. 
While drive shafts are covered under the policy, Pinnacle said the policy excludes claims for 
parts which have failed  because  the vehicle has continued to be driven after a fault would 
have been apparent. Mrs D disagreed and complained.  She said she wouldnt have 
continued to drive the car if shed known  there  was a fault.  She also said a wheel bearing  
would always fail before  a drive shaft  so the policy would never have  covered  her for the 
drive shaft.  Because of that she feels the policy has been mis-sold.  
Mrs D has also raised a complaint about how the policy was sold. This is a separate issue  to 
the claim and is being dealt  with under a different complaint. This decision is only looking  at 
whether Pinnacle  has acted fairly  and reasonably when reviewing Mrs Ds claim. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mrs Ds complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained the 
engineers report  said the fault with the wheel bearing would have been noticeable in the 
form of a rumbling  noise. And if the car hadnt  been  driven when this first arose then there 
wouldnt have been damage caused  to the drive  shaft. 
As Mrs D disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds policy covers her for the unexpected  and sudden failure to a range of listed parts.  
Wheel bearings arent listed in Mrs Ds policy so arent covered by it. So Im satisfied 
Pinnacles refusal to cover it is fair and reasonable.
Pinnacle have  agreed Mrs Ds car suffered an unexpected failure to an insured  part, the 
drive shaft.  But said its not covered because of an exclusion which says claims for parts 
which have failed because the vehicle has continued to be driven  after a fault would have 
been apparent  to the driver arent  covered.
The engineers report says the failure  to the drive shaft was because the car had continued 
to be driven when the wheel bearing  was showing  signs of wear and tear. The report also 
says the signs  of this would  have  been  a form of rumbling noise, particularly when cornering 
and that it would have been  apparent  for several months. 
Ref: DRN26330602Mrs D said there werent any signs of the wheel bearing being worn out. She also said by the 
fact she has a warranty she would  have had the car repaired if it did show  any signs  
something was wrong. I understand  Mrs Ds frustration at her claim not being paid, but I 
need to consider whether  the fault with the wheel bearing would  have been  apparent  to her.  
The independent engineers report says the drive shaft wouldnt have  become  damaged  if 
the car hadnt  continued to be driven.  Theyve  also said the fault with the wheel bearing 
would have been apparent for several  months in the form of a rumbling noise. As this is from 
an engineer who specialises  in inspecting cars Im satisfied its likely  the fault with the wheel 
bearing would have been apparent. I also think a rumbling noise for several months would 
be apparent to the driver. 
If the car hadnt  been driven with the faulty wheel bearing then the drive shaft wouldnt have 
needed repairing  as well. Im therefore  satisfied Pinnacle have  acted fairly  and reasonably 
when applying this exclusion  and not covering the claim for the drive shaft. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2633060