K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs H took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the credit  card by post in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
RBS no longer has a copy of the application  form that Mrs H filled in, which isnt surprising 
given how long ago the sale took place. But it does make the complaint more difficult to 
decide. In reaching  my decision  I have considered the evidence that we do have, as well as 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened.
RBS originally said that it couldnt identify  the sales channel. Mrs H also couldnt  remember  
how she had taken  out the PPI. However,  RBS has recently provided internal screenshots  
indicating that it was a postal sale. On balance, based on the available  evidence, I am 
satisfied that Mrs H applied for the credit card and PPI by completing a form at home and 
returning it by post.
Although RBS doesnt have Mrs Hs actual application form, weve seen copies of the type of 
postal application  form that was in use at the time. This had a separate section for PPI that 
included a box that could be ticked to request the policy. Mrs H could have left this box blank 
if she didnt want the PPI.
Mrs H says that, because  the form states:  Payment Protection Insurance  is designed to 
protect your (card) payments in the event of death, accident, sickness or involuntary 
unemployment (including redundancy). We strongly  recommend you take out this cover, 
that was tantamount to PPI being in some  way compulsory, because it scared people into 
taking it out and suggested  that it was in their best interests.
Im not persuaded by that argument. The above  statement provides a brief description of the 
risks that the PPI covers. It was up to an applicant to weigh up those risks when deciding 
whether or not they wanted to buy the policy. As it was a generic application form, I dont 
consider that Mrs H would  have  thought  that RBS was making a specific recommendation 
that she should take out the policy. And the presence of a tick box would have been enough 
to make it clear that she didnt have to take out the PPI if she didnt want  to.
Ref: DRN25468402The sale was a long time ago and Mrs H herself has said that she has no memory of it, 
which is not surprising,  especially  as applying for a credit card is not a particularly 
noteworthy event.  Looking at the available evidence,  I consider it more likely than not that 
Mrs H decided to buy the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
RBS didnt recommend  the policy to Mrs H, so it didnt need to ensure  that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  Mrs H with enough  information for her to be able to make  an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
The application form came as part of a leaflet  that would have contained broad details  of the 
PPI. I consider that Mrs H would  have known something about the policy   that it would have 
covered her credit card repayments  if shed  been  unable to work due to accident, sickness 
or unemployment  because  I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing 
anything at all about it. 
Mrs H cant remember  what sick pay she might have received  from her employer at the time. 
But regardless of this, the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to any sick pay and potentially for 
longer than Mrs H would have received full pay for. And Mrs H hasnt told us about any other 
means, such as savings, that she could have fallen back on. So overall, I consider that she had 
a need for the policy and could have benefitted  from it at what  would have been a difficult  time.
Mrs H has pointed to the fact that she never  claimed  on the policy  as an indicator that it was 
mis-sold. But this is with the benefit  of hindsight.  It is the nature of insurance  to provide cover 
against any unforeseen events and changes in circumstance.
It is possible that RBS didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs H wasnt  affected by any of those 
things. As I consider  that she had an interest  in the policy and decided to buy it, I am not 
persuaded that further information  would have caused her to change  her mind.  So she isnt 
any worse off as a result of anything RBS may have done wrong,  so theres nothing that 
RBS needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546840