K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plcs (RSA) contractor carried  out 
delayed and poor standard repairs to the damage  to her home from an escape of water,  
under her building  insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision, a copy is attached.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent considered any issues to do with 
the eventual settlement of Ms Hs claim, which is still in dispute  with RSA.
RSA had acknowledged there  were  deficiencies with the repairs and that its loss adjusters 
took a long time to provide Ms H with a schedule of work, but said she took a long time to 
provide a new quote for the work.  I said the work  on site had taken  too long, was poor and 
would have to be re-done and RSA took a long time to respond to Ms Hs complaint. I said 
that overall the claim had been  hugely  delayed.
I said RSAs contractor delayed the start of the work, and it couldve sent its loss adjusters to 
inspect Ms Hs home to speed up her claim. I also said it took Ms H some time to submit  a 
quote for the work  to RSA. I said Ms H was caused considerable inconvenience, some  of 
which was inevitable with an escape  of water  claim,  but not to the extent she suffered.
From what  I had seen, I disagreed with the investigators description of the avoidable 
disruption and inconvenience  suffered by Ms H, and the recommended  compensation of 
£100. I suggested compensation of £500  to reflect the impact  on Ms H of RSA and its 
agents poor handling of her claim, including the delays. 
Ms H agreed with my provisional findings,  but RSA did not. RSA said the workmanship of its 
contractors was poor but the delays werent its sole responsibility, and inconvenience and 
disruption are inevitable for this work. RSA said appropriate restitution was for its contractors 
to rectify the defects,  but Ms H refused.  RSA said its been more than reasonable in letting  
her submit  quotes from her own contractor,  and she caused a significant delay in doing this.
RSA acknowledged  it couldve  been more proactive in contacting  Ms H, but said at times 
she wasnt available and had a number of personal issues  to deal with. It said Ms H caused 
long delays and had a lack of involvement in her claim and it shouldnt  be responsible for her 
failure to mitigate  her situation.  RSA said it remained of the opinion  that the compensation of 
£100 already offered is very fair and reasonable under the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that
Ms Hs complaint should be upheld, and for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision.
The parties are agreed that the RSAs  contractors carried out poor work  at Ms Hs home. 
RSA said that Ms H should  have allowed its contractors  to rectify this, but Ms H had lost faith 
Ref: DRN27621942in RSAs contractors  and I said she appears to have good reasons for this. Because  Ms H 
suffered disruption  and poor workmanship it was the logical and fair next step for RSA to 
allow her to submit quotes from her own contractor, but Im not sure it was more  than 
reasonable.
I take RSAs point that there is an inevitable degree  of disruption and inconvenience in these 
claims  and I made this point in my provisional  decision. What wasnt inevitable was that 
the work  to Ms Hs home would have to be re-done.  RSA appear to have overlooked  the fact 
that this involves an avoidable  delay  for which it is responsible, and during this time Ms H 
has had to live with the consequences  of poor and incomplete repairs.  
RSA say that Ms H was responsible for some of the delays. I acknowledged this point in my 
provisional decision, but I dont think this excuses RSA for the part it played in the delays 
and the disruption  to Ms Hs home and life for which it must bear responsibility. I think RSAs  
comments that Ms H had personal issues to deal with and that she failed to mitigate  her 
situation, are ill-considered and unfair and dont remove RSAs responsibility  for what went  
wrong here.
Having looked  carefully again at RSAs handling  of the claim and similar  complaints  we have 
seen, I stand by my provisional decision.  I think the inconvenience and disruption to Ms H 
were considerably more  than was necessary if the work had been  carried out properly at the 
start. I dont think this has been  properly assessed by RSA or our investigator and I remain  
of the view that it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  for Ms H to be paid a 
total of £500 compensation for the impact the events  of her claim have had upon her.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to pay Ms H £500 compensation for the poor service  she 
received during her claim (this including the £100 compensation it has already offered).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Decision  
complaint
Ms H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plcs (RSA)  contractor carried  out delayed  and 
poor standard repairs to the damage  at her home from an escape of water,  under  her building 
insurance policy.
background
Ms H said RSA offered  its contractor to repair the damage from a leak in her bathroom. She said the 
affected area was stripped, ready for drying, but many delays followed and the work wasnt completed 
as planned and was done  to a very poor standard. She asked RSA to remove its contractor and said 
many of her belongings were damaged during the repairs.
Ref: DRN27621943Ms H said a further leak emerged after the contractor left and her home is now in a worse  condition 
than before her claim.  She set out a list of faults with the work and said the whole job will need to be 
re-done, and said her damaged  belongings  need to be replaced or repaired. She said she felt shed 
been treated  appallingly by RSA and its contractor.
RSA apologised  for Ms Hs problems and said as she didnt want its contractor to continue  it agreed 
to consider quotes for the remaining work, but nothing had been received. RSA said it shouldve  been 
more proactive about the claim and paid compensation of £100 into Ms Hs account  for the 
inconvenience she had suffered. Ms H said shed spent considerable time pursuing  her complaint and 
RSAs payment of £100 compensation  wasnt fair.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said RSA has allowed Ms H to use a 
contractor of her choice  to review the remaining  work  and defects  and RSA are currently reviewing  
her contractors report. He said RSAs  approach is reasonable and as delays with this type of claim 
are inevitable  he wouldnt  recommend any more compensation.
Ms H disagreed, saying its because the delays werent  inevitable that shes complained  and said that 
the delay will be extended  by the work  having  to be re-done. She said shed taken advice from RSAs 
contractor about packing up her belongings, but they made no attempt  to protect  these during  their 
work. Ms H requested an ombudsman  review her complaint.
Ms Hs contractor contacted our service and said the previous  contractor had left a lot of damage to 
Ms Hs home  and said this is not mostly in dispute. He outlined the disagreement between Ms H and 
RSA about the sum RSA should pay to have  the work  to Ms Hs home re-done, and some items to do 
with the schedule of works.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent considered  any issues to do with the eventual  settlement of 
Ms Hs claim, which is still in dispute with RSA.
Ive looked closely at RSAs  handling of Ms Hs claim  and the repairs to see if it has acted  within the 
terms and conditions  of her policy and to see if it has treated her fairly. Having done so, I sympathise 
with Ms H for the very unhappy experience  that she had when RSAs  contractor carried out work at 
her home.  
When a repairer  is chosen  by the insurer the insurer is generally responsible for ensuring any 
deficiencies in the repair are put right. RSA has acknowledged  that there were  deficiencies with the 
work. It also acknowledged  that its loss adjusters  took a long time to provide Ms H with a schedule of 
works and said Ms H has taken a long time to provide it with a new quote  for the works. I have also 
noticed that RSA took two and half months to provide Ms H with a final response to her complaint, 
with no contact from RSA during this time. All in all the resolution of this claim  has been hugely 
delayed.
Ms H said the contractor scheduled two days for the work but were on site for five days. She 
estimated that a further 20 days would be needed for the work to be re-done. I can see from Ms Hs 
timeline that RSAs  contractor delayed the start and duration  of the work. The amount of time required 
for the work to be re-done  is yet to be determined, but it will all amount to an avoidable  delay and will 
inconvenience Ms H considerably more than was necessary if the work had been carried  out properly  
at the start.
Once the relationship  between Ms H and RSAs  contractor had broken  down it was understandable 
that Ms H didnt want them to return to assess the situation. RSA could  have sent its loss adjusters  to 
inspect Ms Hs home and report  on the issues  and this would have speeded matters up, its not clear  
to me why this didnt happen. 
Ref: DRN27621944I can see from Ms Hs description, that RSAs  contractor  caused her considerable inconvenience 
whilst on site. Some  of this is inevitable  with an escape of water claim, but I dont think every  room in 
Ms Hs home  should  have  been affected as she has said. Ms Hs contractor has described the state 
of the work  to her home by RSAs contractor; this includes poorly fitted fixtures  and fittings, poor 
plaster work,  poor decoration and uneven flooring and damage  to fittings. RSAs  loss adjuster 
accepted that the work by RSAs contractor was not adequate  and purely unacceptable  as 
evidenced by Ms Hs contractors report  and photos.
Although I realise  it took Ms H some  time to submit a quote for the repairs to RSA, I think that having 
to live with her home in the state described for over a year is unacceptable. Ms H will need to raise 
the damage to her belongings directly with RSA.
Ive considered the compensation that would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The investigator said the compensation of £100 wasnt intended to cover the quality of the 
work to Ms Hs home. He said RSA has reviewed the damage and the compensation was fair. I 
disagree. I think the compensation should reflect  the impact on Ms H of the avoidable  disruption  and 
inconvenience, including from the delays. From the descriptions Ive seen, this was considerable and 
could have been avoided had RSA or its loss adjusters managed the claim  and its contractor properly. 
For the adverse  impact  upon Ms H I think compensation of £500 is fair, and is consistent  with awards 
I have seen in similar situations.  
Ms H has said that shes raised a separate complaint to RSA about the amount of a cash  settlement 
the insurer  has offered  for the work  to her home which  she says wont cover the work required. This 
will be considered separately if it is brought to our service.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my provisional decision that the complaint is upheld. I am minded to 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Ms H £400 compensation  for the poor service  she 
received during her claim (this being £500 compensation in total with the £100 it has already paid).
I will reconsider the complaint according to information I receive from the parties  in response to this 
letter.
 
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2762194