K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him Silver and Gold  packaged 
bank accounts  in 2009 and 2012.
background
Mr C also initially  complained about  the sale of a Select packaged bank account. But Lloyds 
accepted it shouldnt have sold the Select  account to Mr C and refunded all the fees he paid, 
plus interest, in order to put things right. As this is what  wed normally  ask a bank to do if we 
were to agree an account was mis-sold, weve not looked into that sale. And this decision is 
only looking  at the sale of Mr Cs Silver  and Gold packaged  bank  accounts.  
Our adjudicators have  since looked  at Mr Cs complaint. They  didnt think Lloyds had       
mis-sold the accounts.  Mr C disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Cs complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr C was given a clear  choice in taking the packaged  
accounts. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  And in working  out what I think  is 
more likely than not to have happened, I have to think about everything Ive been told 
together with everything Ive been  provided with and see how this fits with what I do know.  In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is more  likely than not to 
have happened  having weighed up what both Mr C and Lloyds have been able to provide 
me with.
From what  Ive seen, it looks like Mr C upgraded to the Silver account from a free one. So 
I think that Mr C wouldve known Lloyds  did free accounts. Mr C says he was pressured into 
taking the account. But the strength of what Mr Cs said isnt enough  for me to uphold  the 
complaint on this basis  especially as the Gold account was taken online and without 
anyone from Lloyds  being present. So overall I think that Mr C chose to take the Silver  and 
Gold accounts after having been provided with a choice.
The Silver and Gold accounts  included mobile  phone insurance, travel insurance  and 
breakdown cover. Mr C registered a handset for the mobile phone insurance. And it looks 
like he travelled and had a car. So Mr C did actively use, at least, some of the benefits  the 
mobile phone insurance   and he couldve used the others such as the travel insurance  and 
breakdown cover too. 
Im open  to the possibility Mr C may not have been told about  all of the significant features 
and exclusions on all of the benefits. But I havent  seen  anything in his circumstances to say 
that he wouldve  been significantly affected by any of them. The accounts didnt include 
Payment Protection  Insurance  or any other form of unemployment cover so Mr C being     
self-employed made no difference to his ability to claim  on the benefits. And I dont think  
Ref: DRN23606242clearer information wouldve made a difference to his decision to take the accounts in the 
first place. 
Mr C may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, believe he hasnt benefitted from these 
accounts as much as hed hoped and expected to when he initially upgraded. And given 
what he may have read or heard about  packaged bank accounts in general and his 
complaint about  his Select account  has been  upheld, I can understand why Mr C might  think  
these accounts  were also mis-sold. But I think that Mr C chose  to take them  having a decent 
appreciation of what they included. So I dont think Lloyds did anything  significantly wrong 
here.
I want to reassure Mr C that Ive looked at all the information provided  about  his complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so, I dont think that Lloyds has 
treated him unfairly. So I dont think it owes him any more money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2360624