K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr G didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Gs credit card application  form.  On the form there  was a 
section headed  5. Product details. In this section the form stated; If you would  like 
to take advantage of these services please mark the relevant boxes. 
Theres an option to add credit card repayments  cover (PPI) and another  product. An 
X has been typed  next to the option for PPI. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting, I think that its more likely than not that a 
discussion took place  between the Halifax adviser and Mr G about PPI and the X 
was added to reflect what Mr G had been decided, before  he signed the overall 
application to agree to what he was applying for. 
Mr G has also complained  in his PPI questionnaire  that he never  knew  he had PPI. 
But at another  point  Mr G has said that he was actually told by the advisor that 
unless he took out the PPI policy, he would not get the facility. These two statements 
conflict with each other. But given the time thats  passed since this sale took place, 
its not surprising  that Mr G may not now recall everything clearly. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about:
having another complaint upheld.  But our Service considers each complaint on its 
own merits. I dont know the details of the other  complaint  that was upheld, but it 
would be inappropriate  for me to comment on a decision  made  by a business or a 
Ref: DRN23732772colleague on a completely  separate  complaint.  In any case, based on all of the 
evidence Ive seen  in this case, Ive not seen  anything  to persuade me to uphold this 
particular complaint. 
not needing PPI because of his existing means  which included  his wife being  able to 
help him, some  savings  and a separate critical illness policy  he had. 
But although  Mr Gs wife may have wanted  to help him, circumstances can change 
and she may not have  been in a position  to help when  needed.  Having this policy  
would also have reduced Mr Gs need  to rely on his wife if he was unwell and unable 
to work or if he was made unemployed. 
The separate insurance policy Mr G has told us about isnt directly  comparable to the 
PPI policy  he bought. I say this because if a successful PPI claim was made, it would 
pay out in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment. Critical illness would 
usually only pay out if Mr G was diagnosed  with a serious illness.
The savings that Mr G has told us about  wouldnt have lasted for as long as the PPI 
policy would have paid out. And having the PPI policy would  mean that Mr G would 
have the option of not needing to use his savings to make his repayments and 
instead hed have the option of keeping them intact for future use or using them  to 
help pay for other living expenses he may have had.
being in secure  employment. But nobody can accurately predict the future  and 
having this PPI policy would help protect Mr Gs financial positon if he was to 
experience an unexpected  change  in circumstances  such as being made 
unemployed.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will, if it hasnt already done so, make arrangements to pay Mr G now Ive issued my 
final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2373277