K820x#14Complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) when
he called  in August  2017, and with the way they handled his complaint.
Background
On 1 August  2017 Mr D called Barclays. He says the automated  telephone system  didnt 
pick up his responses even though he spoke clearly. He spent around ten minutes trying to 
get through to someone before being told the office was closed and his call ended.  Mr D was 
unhappy with the service  he received  and wrote to Barclays to complain on 4 August 2017. 
He didnt receive a reply  to this letter, or to four subsequent letters chasing a reply.  Unhappy 
with the service he received Mr D brought a complaint to this service.
The investigator who reviewed Mr Ds case didnt  think  Barclays needed to do anything. She 
said Barclays phone lines are open  for a fixed period, which  isnt unreasonable or unfair. 
She also said various factors, like queues,  the automated system and security questions  can 
influence how long it takes to get through. The investigator looked at the impact  of the call on 
Mr D and concluded the call had been  frustrating,  but she didnt think  the unsuccessful call 
was a lasting concern.  This was because  the next call Mr D made to Barclays was on 
9 October 2017. Turning  to Mr Ds complaint  about  his unanswered letters,  the investigator 
said she didnt think Mr D had been affected  in a way that required compensation.
Mr D was unhappy with the investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint, so its been passed to me. He felt the investigator was saying  he didnt make the 
call on 1 August 2017 and it was acceptable  for Barclays to ignore  his complaint letters,  
when it wasnt. The investigator commented  on previous calls Mr D made to Barclays, which 
Mr D said were irrelevant to his complaint. Mr D said the investigator had totally missed the 
point of his complaint and that Barclays should have stated in their auto message  at the 
beginning of his call that the office was closed.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 19 March 2020  and said:
Call on 1 August 2017
It must have been very frustrating for Mr D to spend over ten minutes on the telephone and 
not get to speak to an advisor  to resolve  his query. I dont have any information about the 
time Mr D called Barclays, but it seems to me at the time Mr D called Barclays the office 
wasnt closed. I say this because Mr D said he was on the phone for around  ten minutes 
before his call was terminated as the office was closed. I consider it more  likely than not that 
this is why Mr D wasnt  told the office was closed when he first called Barclays.
Theres no recording of Mr Ds call so Ive no way of telling why Mr D didnt get to speak to 
an advisor before the line closed. The most likely  reasons  seem  to be difficulties using  the 
automated system and/or getting through security questions. The automated system is used 
by all customers of Barclays, so I dont  think Mr D was treated any differently from anyone  
else. Security questions also apply to all customers and are used to protect sensitive 
information. So I cant say Barclays have treated Mr D unfairly  or have done anything wrong 
in using an automated system and asking security  questions. I also believe it was fair to 
close the phone lines at a set time. Had Mr D not experienced  problems with the automated 
Ref: DRN20796562system and/or security questions I think its likely hed have  spoken  to an advisor  before the 
line closed approximately  ten minutes  after he first called. For the reasons set out, Ive 
provisionally decided  Barclays hasnt acted unfairly  so am not making an award to Mr D.
Complaint following the call
This service operates under rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority on its 
website. These specify the types  of complaints we can consider. Complaint has a specific 
definition, which is any oral or written  expression  of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial 
service, claims  management service or a redress determination. Complaint handling is not 
in itself a financial  service, a claims management  service or a redress  determination. So I 
could only consider a compensation award  relating to how a complaint has been  handled by 
a business as part of the original complaint. Where  as here  Im not persuaded to uphold 
the underlying  complaint. I cant require a business  to compensate  for any connected 
perceived shortcomings. This means  that Ive provisionally decided I cant  help with Mr Ds 
complaint about  the letters he says Barclays didnt respond to.
Mr D didnt agree with my provisional decision.  He said it was flawed,  nave and not worth 
commenting on. Mr D said that others whod seen my decision couldnt  believe  I thought  it 
was acceptable  for an institution to ignore a customers  letters. Finally, Mr D referred to bias 
towards banks as exposed by a television programme.
Barclays said they had no further comments to make in response  to my provisional decision.  
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  and for the same reasons. 
Although Mr D has said my provisional  decision was flawed and nave,  he hasnt drawn my 
attention to why he believes this to be the case.  For this reason, I cant add anything  to what  
I said in my provisional decision. And Mr Ds comments in relation  to a television programme 
have no bearing  on his individual complaint against  Barclays. 
In relation to Mr Ds comments about his interpretation that I think its acceptable  to ignore 
correspondence from a customer, Id like to clarify this isnt what I said in my provisional  
decision. Im not considering an award  in relation to Barclays complaint handling because 
the rules this service  operates under  dont  allow me to do so where  as in this case   I 
havent upheld  the original complaint. So, I havent reviewed or commented on Barclays 
complaint handling.  
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ds complaint about  the automated telephone service and cannot  
consider as a separate matter the handling of his complaint to Barclays  Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Ref: DRN20796563Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2079656