K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that she was asked to pay excess mileage charges when her agreement 
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited ended.
background
In September  2015 Miss T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. The term of the agreement was 37 months  with a maximum annual  
mileage of 10,000  per year.  When  Miss T handed  the car back  it had covered 46,831 miles. 
VWFs asked her to pay excess mileage charges.
Miss T disputed the charges. She said shed been told by the salesman that she shouldnt  
worry about going over the mileage allowance. Miss T provided an email  from the salesman 
in which  confirmed that management  reiterated  that customers should be told that the 
mileage allowance  was only used to achieve  the desired monthly  payment.
In its final response VWFS said that the agreement set out the mileage allowance and the 
terms and conditions stated that excess mileage was chargeable.
Miss T wasnt  happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there wasnt enough  evidence  to 
suggest that Miss T had been told that excess mileage charges wouldnt  apply to her.
Miss T didnt agree. She said her mother had also purchased a car from the same salesman 
and had been told the same thing about excess mileage charges. Miss T said she would ask 
the salesman  to contact this service.
The salesman hasnt contacted this service and this services attempts to contact him have 
been unsuccessful. So Ive made my decision on the basis  of the available evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There arent any notes of the discussion  between  Miss T and the salesman at the time she 
purchased the car. I wasnt present so I cant be certain of what was said. In circumstances 
like this I need to look at the available contemporaneous documents  as evidence of what 
was discussed  and agreed. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  
Ill reach my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened,  taking into 
account the available evidence and the wider circumstances of the case.
Ive looked at the finance agreement including the terms  and conditions.  Im satisfied that the 
agreement clearly states that the annual mileage  allowance is 10,000  miles and that the 
terms and conditions say that excess mileage charges will be charged if the mileage 
allowance is exceeded.
Miss T has signed the agreement and in doing so has confirmed that she read and 
understood it and agreed to be bound by its terms. Im unable to find anything in the 
Ref: DRN23036312agreement or the terms and conditions which suggest that excess  mileage charges wont  
apply.
Based on the available information Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to 
show that Miss T was told that excess mileage charges wouldnt apply.
Ive taken into account the email  provided  by Miss T which she says is from the salesman  
who had discussions with her prior to the point of supply.  The dealership has confirmed that 
a person with the same  name was a former employee. But it has also said that he 
wouldntve told Miss T that excess mileage  charges  wouldnt apply.
This service has attempted to contact  the salesperson to verify  the information  he provided 
in his email to Miss T. Unfortunately, and despite repeated  attempts, this service hasnt 
managed to speak  to him. The salesman was asked (via Miss T) to contact this service but 
he hasnt done  so.
Because the salesmans email wasnt sent from the dealership, and because this service 
hasnt been able to verify  it, Im unable to give it much evidential weight. On balance, this 
email isnt enough to persuade me that Miss T was given incorrect information about excess  
mileage charges.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think theres enough evidence for me to safely  
conclude that VWFS has given incorrect information or acted unfairly in asking Miss T to pay 
excess mileage charges. The terms and conditions say that excess  mileage charges will 
apply and VWFs has acted in accordance  with these.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint. I wont be asking VWFS to 
remove the charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2303631