K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Amtrust Europe  Limited  wont pay most of his claim for malicious 
damage by tenants  under  his residential  property owner policy.
background
Mr H had let his property  to tenants in March 2016. The tenants  requested  permission to 
undertake upgrades to the property  including replacement of the kitchen floor and re-
decoration works. Mr H says the male tenant extorted and blackmailed him over paying for 
repairs. This included  reporting him to the local authority, as a result of which  an 
improvement notice was served on him, relating to the heating. Mr H says the tenants  
deliberately sabotaged any attempt  at doing repairs. Mr H attempted  to gain access to the 
property to obtain a gas safety certificate. The tenant refused access  and from January 2018 
eviction proceedings were  started, but unfortunately took until October 2018 to be 
concluded. Mr H became concerned that the tenant was deliberately damaging  the property 
and reported a claim to Amtrust in April 2018.
After Mr H managed to gain repossession of the property, he found that substantial damage  
had been caused to it. All the doors  were  damaged,  the floors had been  ripped up, holes 
had been cut in the ceilings and items had been damaged  or stolen.
Amtrust sent out a loss adjuster to review  the claim. It initially  declined the claim on the basis 
that the damage wasnt malicious but done in furtherance of or preparation for unauthorised  
alterations. It pointed  out that there was no cover  for Landlords contents so it couldnt pay 
out for items  that were  stolen. Damage caused  by pets was excluded under the policy.
After reviewing the matter, Amtrust said it would pay what  it considered to be malicious 
damage to the glass in the doors as. It paid Mr H £500 for this, net of the policy excess of 
£150. It initially said it wouldnt  pay for the damage to the gas fire and fire surround as they 
were contents but later said this was part of unauthorised alterations. It maintained its view 
concerning the other items that they weren't maliciously damaged. It said it needed further 
information to reconsider the theft of copper pipes from the heating  system and the removal  
of the shower  and bathroom sink.
Mr H took the tenants to Court and got a judgement against them  for £10,000.  I understand 
that the tenants didnt attend Court. Mr H has provided a copy of the schedule of losses, 
which he valued at over £15,000 which included  rent arrears,  monies  paid to the tenant  for 
work not carried out and all the matters claimed for to Amtrust.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought some of the items  had suffered  from 
malicious damage and that Amtrust should pay for those.
Amtrust accepted my provisional decision.
Mr H accepted part of my provisional decision,  but argued that all the damage was malicious  
and part of a larger fraud and blackmail scheme  perpetrated by the tenant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22399532These were  my provisional findings:
court proceedings
Mr H says that the fact that he has a judgment means that the court found the damage to be 
malicious. Mr H has a judgment for £10,000.  It doesn't say specifically what  it is for except 
that it is assessed damages. Mr H has sent us a copy  of the schedule of damages  presented  
to the court.  It covers all the damage to the property including money he paid to the tenant 
for repairs the tenant didnt carry out, rent arrears  and contents. The court  wouldnt have 
decided the narrow  issue of whether the damage  was covered under the policy. Particularly 
as there  was no hearing because the tenant  didnt attend. I dont think  the judgment affected 
that issue one way or the other.
Ive considered whether Mr H has had a judgement which could  cover  the damage being 
claimed for under the policy. He says his claim was worth in excess of £15,000 although he 
limited it to £10,000 (presumably to save Court fees). Bearing in mind that the maximum pay 
out for tenants'  malicious acts under the policy is £5,000,  I think it can fairly  be said that he 
didnt recover for any of the damage  which Amtrust may be liable for as a result of this 
decision.
cover 
Under the policy, there is cover under the Buildings section for Malicious  acts or 
vandalism. This excludes any damage In excess of £5,000 caused by any person lawfully  
allowed in Your Building. 
The policy doesnt  cover  contents, so all items deemed to be contents whether stolen or 
damaged, arent covered.
There is cover for theft under the Buildings section  of the policy  i.e. if any parts of the 
building e.g. fixtures  and fittings  are stolen. But crucially under  the theft cover the policy 
excludes Damage  caused by any person lawfully allowed in the Building Damage includes 
loss. And a tenant is a person lawfully allowed in the Building. So essentially theft of any 
kind by the tenant isnt covered.
The policy also has an exclusion for:
Any Damage caused by domestic pets or by insects or vermin.
 
malicious acts
For something to be malicious we consider  it has to be shown that the person acted out of 
spite, rather than out of any other  motive, even if in breach of the tenancy  agreement.  Thus 
damage caused by neglect or by attempts at alteration of the property isnt covered. The 
situation here is complicated by the fact that the tenants asked for and received money from 
Mr H to carry out some refurbishment  to the property. And some refurbishment  had been  
done, particularly  some plastering  to a ceiling. I think that applies to the following items 
which Amtrust  had deemed to be unauthorised  alterations or preparation for them:
Pebble dash/holes in external wall
Ventilation hole
Removed fittings
Ref: DRN22399533Removed ceiling parts
Floors ripped up
Bannister removed
Smoke alarms  removed
I know Mr H has a different opinion, which Ive considered, but, having done so, and based  
on the documents and photos, this is my view.
The following  items are in my view contents  so again not covered:
Stolen  cooker  and washing  machine
Curtains missing
Carpets damaged
Turning to look at some of the other  issues:
garage doors
The garage was broken  into and items  were  taken. Amtrust recorded Mr Hs comment that 
the garage had been smashed  open  and things stolen. Tenant jimmied open  the garage  
doors, ruining the doors and hinges and locks in the process. The items stolen clearly 
werent covered  (because theyre  contents and stolen by the tenant). Amtrust has also said 
that as the doors were damaged as part of the theft, they're not covered either. But I think  
that while this could be seen to be part of the theft, I think it could be classed as malicious 
damage too. Thats because the damage was done  as part of a criminal act. So theres also 
cover for this damage under the malicious  acts section of the policy.  I think  Amtrust should 
pay for this damage.
gas fire and surround
I can see clearly  that this was damaged. And as the surround has a hole in it likely caused 
by being stamped on or hit with a hammer, I can see that this could be malicious. But looking 
at the photos this isnt a fixture  the fire surround  is free standing  and the fire connected to 
the gas pipe. I think  this was part of the contents,  so not covered.
living room  door
Mr H said this looked like it had been chopped by a machete. Amtrust said the damage was 
likely domestic  pet damage. Mr H has said the tenants had dogs  in breach of the tenancy 
agreement and said they had caused  damage to the woodwork and skirting boards. The 
damage to the door looks to me to be caused by excessive scratching  by dogs so is 
unfortunately not covered.
bedroom door
Amtrust has paid for the damage  to the glass. Mr G said the wood of the door had been 
kicked or punched and there is a hole in the door consistent with this. I think Amtrust should 
pay for this damage.
bathroom sink/shower  fitting missing/ shower tray damaged 
The bathroom sink was removed from its fittings. It was also smashed across the corner. 
The shower fitting was removed and is missing. The shower tray was drilled through in the 
corner. Amtrust  said further information was needed  but deemed this to be part of the 
unauthorised alterations.
Ref: DRN22399534I think as the bathroom sink was smashed across the corner,  this was malicious. The 
removal of the shower wouldnt  be covered as it is theft (and, as set out above, theres no 
cover for damage to the building  by the tenant  in respect of theft). I cant  think that drilling 
through the shower tray would be part of any alterations so I think  it reasonable to class  this 
as malicious. So Amtrust  should pay for the damaged sink and shower tray.
copper pipes
These would  clearly have  a value and as they were removed completely this is in my view 
theft. But again thats not covered because of the exclusion  Ive referred to. I havent seen 
from the photos and description provided  that any damage to the building was caused by 
this, but if Mr H wants to provide evidence that it was, Ill reconsider this.
overall 
I think Amtrust  should pay for the damage  as set out above. It should  add interest but as 
Mr H wasnt able to gain access to the property until October 2018, this should run from that 
date.
I note Mr H continues to argue that all the items were maliciously damaged. He says he 
didnt authorise  any of the work  said to be preparation for unauthorised alterations. He says 
they were part of a scheme by the tenant  to get him prosecuted by the local authority in 
respect of an improvement notice.
I note what Mr H says but Ive set out my view in my provisional findings and he hasnt 
shown me anything that persuades me otherwise. I would reiterate that even  though the 
alterations werent  approved by him it doesnt mean they equate  to malicious  damage.  
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN22399535my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
settle the claim for the damage  to the following items, in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy:
ogarage doors
obedroom door (in respect of the hole in it)
obathroom sink
oshower tray
If it pays a cash settlement to Mr H it should  add simple interest* at the rate of 8% from 
the date Mr H gained  access to the property  until the date it pays.
*Amtrust Europe  Limited  is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from 
any interest paid. Should Mr H request it, Amtrust Europe Limited should provide  him 
with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken  off so that, if appropriate, he can 
reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2239953