K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that AvantCredit  of UK,LLC  (ACL)  lent to her irresponsibly as she wasnt  
in a position to afford  the repayments on a loan they provided. 
background
In June 2017 Miss N took out a loan for just over £3,000 with ACL. The monthly repayment 
was £145.31 and the loan was to be paid off over 36 months. She says that the money 
shouldnt have been lent to her. She says at the time of application she had four other loans 
totalling £1,500 with other lenders; had amassed a large amount of debt on credit cards  and 
had a history of payday loans.
But ACL didnt agree that theyd provided  the loan irresponsibly.  They said the pre-
authorisation checks theyd completed  had been satisfactory. They  explained that theyd 
asked Miss N for detail  of her income and had checked that income to assure themselves it 
was accurate. Theyd then considered what shed told them  about her expenses and noted 
that shed therefore have  sufficient disposable  income to afford  the repayments on the loan. 
They also considered her credit file and looked at the other debt she had when deciding 
whether she could afford additional credit. They explained that their risk assessment had 
suggested the additional borrowing was affordable  and they didnt think  theyd done  anything 
wrong.
So Miss N referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think  there was 
evidence to demonstrate the loan had been unaffordable.  He noted that the information 
Miss N had given ACL about her income and expenditure would have suggested she had 
enough disposable income.  He thought  the credit checks wouldve shown a history  of 
borrowing but that didnt mean the loan was provided irresponsibly. He thought  there was 
evidence Miss N had maintained her open  accounts  well and hadnt missed payments or 
defaulted on them. When he looked at the statements Miss N provided he did see that her 
outgoings were  higher  than what shed told ACL but he realised  ACL hadnt seen these 
statements and given  the size of the loan he didnt think it was necessary or proportionate  to 
ask for them.  
But Miss N disagreed with the investigators  view.  She thought that ACL shouldve seen her 
dependency on payday loans as a red flag.  She said that whilst she did pay off the payday 
loans on time she almost always reopened them and that her longer  term lending was 
therefore were payments  were missed. She therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of Miss Ns financial problems and I know  it will disappoint her but Im 
afraid I dont think theres evidence here to suggest  ACL lent irresponsibly to her. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN29723852Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide a loan a business should check that the loan is affordable. The 
type of checks which  a business should carry out should be proportionate, so (for instance) a 
mortgage lender  will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a catalogue  offering a low 
credit limit doesnt have  to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether ACL carried out proportionate checks, 
and at what information they had been given about Miss Ns financial circumstances.
The methods ACL used  to establish  affordability  were for them to decide but the practices 
and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be 
proportionate to the amount of money  being  requested.
Miss N was provided with a loan of just over £3,000  so I would not expect ACL to apply 
extremely stringent analysis when authorising it  their analysis could  be proportionate to the 
size of the loan.
ACL have provided the information that they used when they established the loan and I can 
see that they relied on the information Miss N had provided about her income  and 
expenditure. She had a responsibility to provide accurate information but it appears her 
expenditure was higher than what she reported.  
ACL dont appear to have  checked Miss Ns expenditure but I dont think  they had to. They  
used other  methods to establish  her credit worthiness and I think  these were  reasonable. 
They reviewed her credit file and considered her outstanding  debt and they clarified the 
earnings she reported. They used an internal risk assessment tool to decide whether lending  
was appropriate.  This considered, amongst other factors, how much Miss Ns debt had 
increased. Miss Ns credit  file did show that shed had previous payday  loans but the loans 
she was paying  appeared to be reasonably well managed.  Its for ACL to establish the 
methods that they use to check creditworthiness and I think  that the processes they have 
explained here seem reasonable and proportionate to the amount of credit  Miss N was 
seeking to lend. I dont think it would be fair to ask them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2972385