K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when hed been the 
victim of a scam.
background
In February 2018  a payment was made  from Mr Ss account for £1,000. Mr S told Santander 
the next day that he didnt  make the payment   that it was unauthorised and fraudulent.  He 
said he did not recognise the beneficiary  name, reference, account  number or sort-code. He 
told the adviser he had not shared his details and no-one other  than him had access  to his 
online banking. Santander explained it would need to investigate further as it was possible 
that his security details  had been  compromised. It blocked Mr Ss account, raised a fraud 
claim and notified  the beneficiary bank  who Ill refer to as N.  
A couple of hours later Mr S called back and advised that after investigating the matter 
himself, hed learned it was a relative that had made the transfer. He told Santander  he is 
very close to his relative and has in the past shared all his security details with them.  He also 
told Santander that he had spoken  to the beneficiary of the funds, who had agreed  to refund 
the money back to him. He told Santander he would sort the dispute  out himself  and would 
like to retract his fraud claim. He asked Santander to unblock his account and update the 
receiving bank  which  Santander did on the same day.  
The following  day Mr S called Santander;  he told them that he had, in fact, made the 
payment himself. He believed it to be a legitimate investment and cant believe he has been 
scammed and asked  Santander for help in retrieving his money. 
Santander said it processed the payment  in line with Mr Ss instructions and had tried to 
recover his funds from the beneficiary  bank  but had not been  able to. It said that it was 
unable to help further and had done  everything  possible to help assist Mr S in the recovery  
of his funds. It offered  £50 compensation as a gesture of goodwill for providing incorrect  
information regarding  the timeframe for an investigation.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr S referred  his complaint to this service;  one of our 
investigators considered  it. She didnt think that Santander should  reimburse  Mr Ss loss as; 
-the payment  wasnt unusual  or suspicious in nature  taking into consideration Mr Ss 
normal account activity;
-Mr S didnt  speak to or interact with Santander staff at the time of the payment, so 
Santander didnt  miss an opportunity to identify that the payment was being made in 
relation to a scam;
-she was satisfied that Santander  did what they could to try and recover Mr Ss funds; 
-she felt the £50 compensation given for the service issues was fair and reasonable; 
and
-she concluded that no refund or further  compensation was due. 
Mr S didnt agree with the outcome, he felt it was unfair and asked that his complaint be 
reviewed again.  
Ref: DRN25505792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached materially 
the same  conclusions as the investigator did, and for materially the same reasons. I know  
Mr S will be disappointed as this isnt the outcome hes been hoping  for, but Ill explain  why 
Ive reached this decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations (in this case the 2017  regulations) and the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken this into account when deciding what  
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Santander are also required to conduct  their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
In addition, as a matter  of good industry practice, I consider firms should in any event have 
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.    
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
Ref: DRN25505793So in this case, I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably  in its
dealings with Mr S when he transferred the £1,000 and when he reported the matter, or
whether it should  have  done more than it did.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr S, and I appreciate he feels strongly  that his 
money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about Santanders 
actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing  the transfer to leave Mr Ss 
account. I also think it acted appropriately and quickly  in trying to recover  the money.  So 
having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Initially Mr S reported the payment as unauthorised, he then changed  his version  of events 
to a relative making the payment, and then to him making the payment himself. It is now 
accepted by both parties  that Mr S was aware he was making the payment, in that he 
expected money  to be leaving  his account and he sent the payment of £1,000 to the third-
party bank account through his online banking  without any interaction with Santander staff. 
At the time Mr S believed  he was dealing with a legitimate  investment  business, he did not 
suspect that the person he was making a payment to was a fraudster.  The money was sent 
in good faith  for investment purposes. In simple  terms this means  at the time the payment 
was made   Mr S wanted to make  it and authorised it to be made.  Because of this 
Santander were expected  to follow his instruction. But as Ive explained above, I consider 
that as a matter  of good practice Santander should been on the lookout for unusual  and out 
of character transactions. 
So Ive first thought  about whether the payment Mr S made was out of character and/or
unusual. Having reviewed  his statements from September 2017 leading  up to the scam,  I 
dont think the payment  Mr S made to the fraudster  was particularly unusual or out of 
character in comparison to his normal account activity. Nor did the payment clear his 
account or leave  it in a negative position. Mr S also did not have any interaction with 
Santander at the time of making the payment. He made it through  his online banking, using 
a one-time passcode  (OTP) code, which was sent to his registered  mobile  number. As the 
payment wasnt particularly out of character or unusual, and there was nothing about  the 
payment that wouldve  indicated  to Santander  that it wasnt  legitimate or that Mr S might  be 
at risk of financial harm I dont think Santander should fairly  or reasonably  have made further 
enquiries with Mr S about the payment before it processed it. 
Ive gone on to think about  whether Santander did what it shouldve  done once Mr S 
reported to it that hed been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly  ask 
Santander to refund the money  to Mr S, I need to be satisfied Santander should have acted 
sooner in trying to recover the money. And if I dont  think it acted soon enough, I need to 
decide whether  it would have made  a difference. 
In this case Mr S first reported the payment as an unauthorised transaction.  Santander took 
action immediately and notified N. Later the same  day Mr S withdrew his claim and 
Santander informed  N of this  which is what Id expect it to do. I think its important for me to 
be clear that the actions  N then took in relation  to the beneficiary  account upon receiving 
these notifications from Santander is not something I can hold Santander responsible for. 
Ref: DRN25505794Eventually the following day Mr S told Santander  what had really happened   that he himself  
had authorised the transaction  and that he had, he believed,  been scammed.  I can see 
Santander at this point again  acted quickly to try to recover Mr Ss money from the 
beneficiary account by reporting the matter  to N immediately   without undue delay. But from 
the statements  and information provided to me by N, I can see all of Mr Ss money had 
unfortunately already left the receiving account  on the day of the payment and the following 
day  before Mr S had informed Santander  of the scam. 
It is very unfortunate Mr S has lost out and I understand  this whole experience  will have 
been hugely upsetting  for him. I know he feels strongly that Santander should  refund him. 
But in these circumstances,  I dont think I can fairly  say that Santander have done anything 
wrong or should  have done  any more  to prevent him from losing this money. Ultimately it 
was the fraudster that tricked Mr S. I cant hold Santander responsible for Mr S having fallen 
victim to a scam, and I think it acted as quickly as it could to try and recover  the money, once 
it knew what had happened. So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Santander  to compensate  
Mr S for his loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 September  2020
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550579