K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs Ss secured loan with Kensington Mortgage Company  
Limited, and the information Kensington has reported to credit reference agencies  about 
their payment record. Its a joint complaint, but all of our dealings  have been with Mr S, who 
tells us that he has been denied credit due to mis-reporting by Kensington, for which 
substantial compensation is due.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 21 August 2020, I set out the reasons  why I wasnt 
minded to uphold  Mr and Mrs S complaint.  That decisions attached  below and forms part of 
this final decision.  
I gave the parties  until 21 September 2020 to make any further submissions before I 
finalised my decision;  both have responded. Kensington said it had nothing  further  to add. 
Meanwhile, Mr S have simply repeated what hed said previously about  the reporting  from 
2013, without  providing copies of his and Mrs Ss credit files.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Theres  no new evidence  for me to 
consider, and therefore no reason  to depart  from my provisional conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S  to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 November 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21736242CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Mr and Mrs Ss secured  loan with Kensington Mortgage Company Limited, 
and the information Kensington has reported to credit reference agencies  about  their payment record. 
Its a joint complaint, but all of our dealings have been with Mr S, who tells us that he has been  denied 
credit due to mis-reporting by Kensington, for which  substantial compensation  is due.
background
The complaint started in the autumn of 2018; there were two main  elements to it; in summary, these 
were:
Kensington had reported missed payments  in the preceding ten months when payments had 
been made; and
The reporting in 2013  had fluctuated  back  and forth between six months arrears and none, which 
wasnt possible.
The complaint was referred to us in March 2019, and our investigator began his enquiries in 
December 2019. Our investigator asked Kensington for more detail on the 2013 reporting; he also 
made similar enquiries of the credit reference agencies  themselves. However, by that time, that data 
was no longer  available, which meant the investigator couldnt  make any substantive comment  on the 
2013 aspect of the complaint. 
On the reporting from 2018, he didnt  think Kensington had reported incorrectly or unfairly.  He 
explained that although  Mr and Mrs S may have  made regular payments in that period, they had 
ongoing arrears and the reporting  reflected  that.
Mr and Mrs S asked for the compliant to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  They  also complained that 
the delay in our investigation had allowed the data from 2013 to be lost.
my provisional  findings
Im aware of having summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented.  No 
discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service we provide, and if I havent 
mentioned something,  it isnt because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material  to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which, 
although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral. 
Were impartial, we dont  take either sides instructions on how we investigate  a complaint, and we 
dont regulate  or punish  financial businesses.  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ill deal first with the 2018  reporting. The data recorded with a credit 
reference agency doesnt  simply reflect whether a payment has been made  in any month. Rather, it 
reports the extent to which  payments are up to date.  
So an entry saying one-month overdue doesnt mean that a payment wasnt made that month; it 
means that in that month  the account was in arrears by the equivalent of at least  one months  
payment. In Mr and Mrs S case, the reporting in 2018 looks to have  been a fair reflection of the status 
of their account.
Ref: DRN21736243The investigators  manager has addressed the issue over the loss of historic data from 2013.  I dont 
intend to revisit his comments, other than to say that whilst I appreciate their frustration, I dont  think  it 
has prejudiced the outcome  of Mr and Mrs S complaint. We have enough information in any event to 
make a finding.
I say that because we have an extract from Mr S credit file showing the reporting  from 2013. We also 
have the account payment  records  from 2013. The latter show that the account was around six 
months in arrears during  the early part of 2013. A lump sum of £2,200 cleared the arrears in April 
2013, but then subsequent payments were missed,  and the arrears  soon returned to their previous 
level. Thats broadly consistent with what the credit reference report shows, suggesting to me that the 
reporting from 2013  was again a fair reflection  of the status of the account.
Theres another dimension to this. Even if a business has reported incorrectly wed only award 
compensation if the incorrect reporting had caused the consumer detriment. Mr S is saying  hes 
suffered detriment by being denied credit. Ive already explained why I dont  think Kensington has 
reported the loan status unfairly. For completeness, Ill explain now why, even if it had, I wouldnt be 
awarding Mr and Mrs S compensation  in any event.
The loan with Kensington is held jointly by Mr and Mrs S, which means  Kensington will have  reported 
the same data on both of their respective credit files. Yet Mr S has told us that whilst hed been  turned 
down for credit, his wife was accepted.  So if Mrs S was able to obtain  credit despite the reporting  from 
Kensington, all other things  being equal its not unreasonable to conclude that Mr S would  be 
accepted as well. 
That introduces the very real likelihood that theres adverse data from another creditor on Mr S credit 
file, and it is this that has impacted on his ability  to obtain credit, rather than Kensingtons  reporting.  
We asked  Mr and Mrs S to send  us copies  of both of their credit files (full copies,  not extracts)  in order 
that this could  be assessed. Mr S replied saying  that he didnt see any value  in providing that 
information. 
Thats their prerogative,  of course; we cant compel  consumers to provide the evidence we ask for. 
But without it, there would be little prospect of my making an award in Mr and Mrs S favour, even if 
my final decision, after seeing any further submissions  from the parties, was that Kensingtons  credit 
reporting had been unfair in some way.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Kensington Mortgage Company  Limited.  
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 21 September  2020, or sooner if both parties  
confirm theyve said and provided everything they want in response to this provisional  decision. 
Neither party  need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2173624