K821x#15complaint
Mr C complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) had cancelled  his home 
emergency policy.
background
Mr C had a home emergency policy with BGI. Hed had ongoing problems with his central  
heating, over a number  of years. He contacted BGI because he had again been  told to get 
his central heating system  powerflushed, even though hed already had that done twice. 
Mr C thought BGI shouldve advised him to put a sludge inhibitor product into the water  in his 
central heating system.  He thought  that sort of advice was what he was paying BGI so much 
for, and he wanted  to discuss  this with BGI. But Mr C said BGIs call handler behaved 
unprofessionally when BGI got in touch.  He said the call handler made a racist remark  to 
him. And then Mr C found that his policy  had been  cancelled, apparently  on the grounds of 
his behaviour on the call. 
Mr C also told us that BGI had missed  a gas leak the first time it was reported. And after his 
complaint was made, he contacted us to tell us that he had experienced ill health, and he 
thought that the stress of this complaint had added to this. 
BGI said Mr C had been given the correct advice about his central heating system. It also 
said Mr C had used abusive language  to its call handler when he was on the phone. It said 
that it wouldnt tolerate  behaviour like that, so his policy had been  terminated immediately. 
Our adjudicator asked  BGI for a recording of the call where  Mr C had allegedly been  
abusive. BGI didnt  send  a recording of that call. 
Our adjudicator then upheld this complaint. He said hed expect a call like this to have  been  
recorded. And BGI hadnt  sent a call recording, so our adjudicator  said he couldnt  say that 
BGIs decision to cancel the policy was reasonable. He noted  BGI hadnt said there  was any 
history of engineers  who attended Mr Cs claims reporting concerns  or problems. 
Our adjudicator thought BGI had made Mr C aware  of the problem with sludge in his central 
heating system. He didnt  agree with Mr C that BGI had an obligation to tell Mr C that 
inhibitor shouldve been added. Our adjudicator said he understood that shouldve been 
done after each  of the powerflushes,  which Mr C had paid for privately.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that, prior to the policy being cancelled, BGIs  call handler had 
made a fair offer to deal with Mr Cs concerns. Our adjudicator said that Mr C had been 
offered something  for free  a new heat exchanger.  But he may already have been entitled 
to that anyway, without  charge, under his policy. 
Our adjudicator said Mr C had problems  with his toilets since  his policy  had been  cancelled, 
but a plumbing  firm attended  to resolve this under  the warranty for previous repairs. 
BGI said it hadnt been able to send us a call recording,  because that call hadnt been 
recorded. BGI sent a witness statement from the call handler instead. That repeated that Mr 
C had used an aggressive tone and foul language. The call handler said he felt that asking 
him or BGIs engineers  to visit would put them at risk. BGI wouldnt accept Mr Cs policy  
being reinstated, for the reasons that its call handler had given. 
Ref: DRN24943742Our adjudicator didnt  change his mind. He said that as BGI was making an allegation  
against Mr C, it needed  to be able to provide evidence to support its position. 
BGI said it had provided the only evidence it could. It said this was comparable to an incident 
in someones home, that wouldnt be recorded either. We shouldnt assume that there had 
been no abusive language, just because it wasnt recorded. And BGI thought  that it should 
be able to decide who it contracts with. 
Mr C also wrote again. He said he had been  racially  abused, he had been wrongly accused 
of abusive behaviour, he had had his contract  cancelled without being allowed to put his 
version of events, and he had had to pay a third party to clean out his central  heating  
system, which couldve been avoided if hed been  advised correctly by BGI. 
As neither side agreed with our adjudicator,  this case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr C thinks  that it was BGIs  responsibility  to tell him to put an inhibitor product in his 
central heating system. And he says hes faced increased  costs  because it didnt do that. 
But I dont agree that its primarily BGIs  responsibility to tell Mr C to do this. I note that 
Mr C has had two powerflushes of his heating system in recent  years. And, like our 
adjudicator, I would expect that advice about  any inhibitor would form part of this work, if 
that was required. BGI didnt do this work, it was done privately. So I dont think its BGIs 
fault if Mr C wasnt advised that he might  benefit from this.
-Mr C also told us about  what happened when BGI got in touch with him to discuss his 
concerns. Mr C accepts the conversation became heated, but said he wasnt  abusive. 
He also said BGIs  call handler was unprofessional, and pushed  him repeatedly to 
accept an unsuitable resolution. Then Mr C says the call handler made a racist remark  to 
him. 
-BGIs  version of events on this call is somewhat different. Unfortunately,  this call 
apparently wasnt  recorded,  although Mr C says he was told it was. So Im not simply 
able to listen to the call and hear what happened. I have  to consider what both sides  
have said, and reach a view on whats most likely to have happened.
-BGI says that this situation is just the same as if a problem occurred on a call out, where  
the interaction wouldnt be recorded. I dont  think it is quite the same.  BGI knew  that Mr 
C was unhappy  with the service hed received. Our adjudicator  expected BGI would 
choose to record  calls that are made in response  to a complaint. I think thats right,  and 
its unfortunate that BGIs call handler chose to make this call from an unrecorded line. I 
think that means he runs the risk that if a call does  become  heated,  that he wont have 
evidence to show why steps  as serious  as cancellation of a contract really are 
necessary. 
-I do think there are some similarities with a problem on a call out. With either a call out, 
or an unrecorded call, Id expect BGI to offer clear  and detailed  evidence of what was 
Ref: DRN24943743said, with specific examples to show why concerns have been raised. That hasnt been 
provided.
-I also need to bear in mind that BGI relies on events on this one call, as its justification 
for cancelling  Mr Cs policy. BGI hasnt suggested  there  has ever been any other cause  
for concern  over Mr Cs behaviour,  in what Mr C says is almost two decades  of cover, 
and a number  of home visits. I think that also means that the evidence  to support 
cancellation of Mr Cs policy does  need  to be detailed and specific,  particularly as Mr C 
may have to declare this to other  insurers in future. 
-The initial evidence that our service was sent didnt seem to me, or indeed to our 
investigator, to meet this threshold.  BGI has since sent us a further statement. I can see 
BGI had asked its call handler  for a statement in as much detail as possible. The 
response seems to me quite short, and no further  detail of what  was said was then 
offered. 
-I think both sides accept that the phone conversation became heated. But I dont think 
Im able to decide that this conversation was quite as BGI has described  it. 
-BGIs  call handler refers to abusive  language. Mr C accepts the call became heated. So I 
think its likely there was some  swearing. Thats unfortunate, and certainly  not 
acceptable. 
-However, I dont think theres anything  to suggest any threats were made. And I dont 
think its likely that Mr Cs behaviour, looked at objectively, justified  the apparent fear of 
future physical harm that led the call handler  to propose the immediate cessation of his 
contract. Although BGI asked  for further  detail, there still doesnt seem  to me to be 
anything to show why this call would lead BGIs call handler  to think that there was a 
danger in future to its staff if they had to visit Mr Cs home. Especially as theres  nothing  
to make me think that anyones ever felt unsafe  there before, over many years of service 
provision. 
-Mr C says the call handler was unprofessional,  and pressed  him to accept a particular 
offer. This offer is mentioned in BGIs  internal notes  like our adjudicator, and Mr C 
himself, Im not sure why this offer was made. BGI hasnt  explained  how what it was 
offering was related to what had gone  wrong.  
-Mr C also said that the call handler  made what amounts to a racist remark. I dont think 
Im able to say that its more likely than not that BGIs call handler  did that. Because 
theres no call recording,  theres  unfortunately nothing to support what Mr C says about 
this. And I dont think that the evidence I have  seen provides enough for me to decide 
that its more likely than not that this happened. 
-I do note though that a number of things do appear to have gone  wrong on this call. But I 
dont think that BGI has shown  that it was appropriate to unilaterally end Mr Cs contract, 
rather than exploring any less draconian steps.
-All Mr C received after this was a written complaint response, saying that BGI had 
cancelled his contract.  But BGI didnt record on its system  that it had cancelled  Mr Cs 
contract. It said hed cancelled because he was unhappy with the service provided. Its 
particularly unfortunate that the letter that told him about the cancellation also said 
Ref: DRN24943744Were still here for you. Despite the fact that you no longer have an agreement with us, 
you can still call us if you have a problem  with your central heating. 
-That offer of future service also seems to me to undermine  what  BGI says about its 
reasons for terminating Mr Cs contract. 
-I think, as BGI cancelled this policy, its responsible for showing that its actions were fair. 
And, taking the above as a whole,  I dont think BGI has done  that. Because  of that, I 
dont think its likely  that BGIs  actions in terminating this policy were fair and reasonable. 
-BGI says it should be able to choose who it contracts with. Thats usually right.  But when 
BGI does  that, it has to act fairly and reasonably. And I dont think its done so in this 
case. 
-But I dont think that it would be fair and reasonable for me to suggest BGI reinstates Mr 
Cs policy. Thats because it seems to me that the relationship  between  Mr C and BGI 
has entirely broken  down. And I also note Mr C has paid for some  private work, and says 
his central heating has never been better. Im not clear Mr C would still want  this policy 
with BGI.
-So, I think instead BGI should  pay Mr C compensation. 
-Mr C paid BGI £1,148.37 for a year of cover starting on 16 October 2017. His cover was 
then removed on 7 June 2018, but it seems clear that he couldnt  have made  a 
successful claim  from 6 June, when BGI took the decision  to take him off cover. 
-Ive not seen anything to suggest that BGI has paid Mr C back  the remaining proportion  
of his policy. BGI should refund Mr C the proportion of his premium  which  he paid for 6 
June 2018 to 16 October 2018 inclusive (133 days) if it hasnt already done so.
-I dont know if BGI has recorded  the fact that it cancelled  Mr Cs insurance on any 
external database.  If it has, it should ensure that entry is removed. 
-BGI took a particularly  serious step in cancelling Mr Cs policy with immediate effect. It 
didnt contact him to get his side of the story, and in my view,  it hasnt justified  what  it has 
done. I think that this issue  has caused Mr C a significant amount of concern and upset. 
Mr C thought it had contributed  to a recent bout of severe ill health. I dont think  Im able 
to decide that Mr Cs ill health  has been caused  by this problem. But I do think that 
additional stress, at a time when Mr C has been unwell, would be particularly 
unwelcome. So I think BGI should  pay Mr C £350 in compensation  to make up for that. 
-Mr C also told us about  a separate issue. He said hed had to call BGI twice before a gas 
leak in his home was found. I can see that some  piping was rerun in his home in late 
2017, but I cant see on the list of callouts to his property, a call for a suspected gas leak 
before this. So Im not able to confirm  what Mr C has said from BGIs records.  
-I also note that Mr C says that he reported  this problem in 2016  and early  2017, but it 
wasnt picked up until November 2017.  I wouldve  expected  that if Mr C had concerns 
about a gas leak in this time, that he wouldve contacted the emergency  helpline  about 
this, which is entirely  separate to BGI. As Mr C doesnt seem to have done this, and as 
theres no other corroboration of what hes told us, I dont think I can uphold Mr Cs 
complaint on this point. 
Ref: DRN24943745I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr C didnt reply. BGI wrote to agree,  and make some additional points.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
BGI said that it agreed with the decision. It wanted  to reiterate that it did have concerns after 
the call with Mr C, so it said it hadnt taken its decision to end his policy  lightly. But BGI also 
said that this ending of the policy wasnt processed  as it wouldve liked,  given the sensitive 
nature of the decision. It appreciated that incorrect letters had been sent to Mr C.
I note BGIs further comments. Ill now make the award I initially  proposed.
my final decision
My decision  is that British Gas Insurance Limited  must pay Mr C any outstanding premium  it 
has not yet returned,  as set out above.  It must also pay him £350 in compensation. If British 
Gas Insurance  Limited has recorded  the fact that it cancelled  Mr Cs insurance on any 
external database,  it must ensure that entry is removed. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2494374