K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Advantage Insurance Company Limited was wrong not to give him a 
new replacement car when he made a claim on his motor insurance policy after an accident.
background
Mr Ls car was written-off when it was under a year old. The policy allowed for a new 
replacement of the same make, model and specification to be provided.  But Advantage said 
the cars  specification had changed. It also said the estimated repair  cost for Mr Ls car was 
less than 60% of the new cars  list price.  For those reasons, it said the policy only entitled  
Mr L to the cars pre-accident market value. Mr L was unhappy with that and with 
Advantages general poor service,  for which it had offered him £75 compensation. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ls complaint. She didnt think  Advantages offer for its 
poor service was reasonable. She said it should pay him a further £175 compensation. She 
also thought it should pay Mr L the difference between  the sum it gave him for his old car 
and the price of a new replacement car. In her view, the changes to the cars specification  
were minor. She said the estimated  cost of repair (based on Advantages figures)  was 
around 53% of the new cars list price. She found a different  list price  and calculated the 
repair cost as around 58% of it. She thought  the cost of repairs would rise when the car was 
stripped back and was likely to exceed  60% of the list price.  
Advantage said its figure was 7% below the required threshold and was worth £875.  It didnt 
think the investigators calculation was reliable.  And it asked why a further £175 should  be 
paid. It asked for an ombudsmans review  if the investigators view remained the same. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The specification of Mr Ls car had changed by the time the original car was written-off.  The 
cars lights were different, the audio system  had been upgraded and the engine power had 
increased very slightly. The dealership garage  didnt  think the changes  were significant. 
Advantage offered Mr L £9,030 for the cars  pre-accident market  value.  Mr L had paid 
£11,605 for it only a few months earlier. Although the list price of a new car may have been 
£12,450, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable for Advantage to pay Mr L only the 
cars pre-accident market value due to the minor specification changes.
Advantages other reason  for not providing a new replacement car to Mr L was that the 
estimated repair  cost of the old car was less than 60% of the new cars list price. Advantage 
worked that percentage out firstly by using  the list price provided  to it by Mr L two months  
after the accident (£12,450). It may have  been  lower at the time of loss.
Our investigator checked the dealerships website in June 2019. She found the list price of a 
new car was £11,380. Advantage didnt  think the price she found was as reliable as the one 
Mr L supplied. I think it may have been the price of the manual version of the car. Recently 
we asked the dealership garage what the new cars  list price was when  Mr Ls car was 
written-off. It wasnt able to clarify the issue.  
Ref: DRN20316852Using the figure the investigator found, the cost of repairs was just short  of the cars new list 
price. But that may not be reliable. Advantage didnt check the new cars list price, but based 
on the figure Mr L gave  it, the cost of repairs was only 7% short of the threshold. And 
Advantage didnt  get a full breakdown of the likely repair cost. We think  thats  necessary so a 
business can show the sum was arrived at fairly and is reliable.   
Based on what Ive seen,  I think it would  be fair and reasonable  for Advantage to pay Mr L 
the difference between the £9,030 it paid him for the cars market  value  and the list price of a 
new car at £12,450  - plus interest. 
In terms of poor service,  initially  Advantage directed  Mr L to an accident management 
company, as it was a non-fault  claim.  But it didnt explain to him how that arrangement would 
work. It didnt reply to his emails or make calls back to Mr L, so he had to spend more  time 
than he should  have had to do chasing  it. 
I dont think the £75 compensation Advantage offered Mr L for the upset and inconvenience 
caused by its poor service  was enough. Had he known all the facts at the outset, he may 
have chosen not to use the accident management  firm. I think he was confused,  frustrated 
and inconvenienced by what happened. Advantages poor contact with Mr L made matters 
worse. And I think these issues dragged out the time it took for the claim to be dealt with. 
Taking everything into account,    I think its reasonable to require  Advantage to pay Mr L a 
further £175 compensation (£250 in total). I think that sum reflects  the amount of distress 
and inconvenience  he faced 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr L the difference  between the sum it paid him for his car(£9,030) and the list 
price of the new car (£12,450)
Add interest at the simple yearly  rate of 8%, from the date the market value was paid 
to the date of settlement
Pay Mr L £175 more  (£250 in total) for distress  and inconvenience
If Advantage thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr L how much  its deducted, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2031685