K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her two packaged 
bank accounts.  She paid a monthly fee for the accounts which  provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Miss Ts account history  with Barclays is as follows:
it was opened as a fee-free account
it was upgraded to an Additions Active packaged account in May 2009
it was changed to a Barclays Bank Account with added Travel  Plus Pack in June 2012
the Travel Plus Pack  was changed  for a Travel Pack in November 2016
the Travel Pack is still active on Miss Ts account
Weve already told Miss T that were  unable to look into the part of her complaint  about the 
Additions Active account, because the complaint  was made  too late. So in my decision Ill be 
considering whether the Travel Plus Pack and Travel Pack were mis-sold.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the Packs  to Miss T and didnt 
recommend that Barclays should pay her any compensation. Miss T didnt  agree  so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Miss Ts complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Miss Ts complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think  the Travel Plus Pack  and the 
Travel Pack  were mis-sold to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss T was given a fair choice when she changed her 
account.
In Miss Ts complaint she said that didnt  realise  she could have a fee-free account. She also 
explained that she wouldnt have been able to read or properly understand information  she 
was given about her account, as shes dyslexic.
Ref: DRN22882392Ive thought carefully about what Miss T has said, but I still think  she was aware she had a 
choice about upgrading her account.  I say this because before she took the Travel Plus 
Pack, shed held both a fee-free bank account,  and a different packaged account. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest that she either couldnt have initially  kept her fee-free 
account, or that she couldnt have kept the packaged account she had before the Travel 
Plus Pack. Ive also seen  a summary of the phone  call in which Miss T upgraded in June 
2012. I dont know  exactly what was said during that call, but it does appear  thanas 
discussed to some extent  before Miss T agreed to it.
Ive also seen a signed form from the time that Miss T changed  to the Travel Pack  in a 
Barclays branch in November 2016. Again, I dont know  exactly  what was said at that 
meeting, but I do think that there mustve been some sort of a discussion about the Travel 
Pack. After  all, I dont  think  Miss T, or many people  for that matter, would sign a form without 
knowing at least roughly what they were  signing for.
So having  considered everything, Im not persuaded that Miss T wasnt aware that she could 
have a fee-free  account if she wanted one. Shed previously held one, and she changed her 
account three times over the course of several years. So I think she was aware of her 
options and most likely changed  each  time because the different  accounts suited her needs 
better.
Barclays says it recommended the Travel Plus Pack to Miss T  so it had to make  sure its 
benefits were suitable for her, based on her circumstances.
The main  benefits  of this pack  were  travel insurance  and car breakdown cover. I understand 
that Miss T says she didnt travel and she also couldnt drive. So she says the account was 
inappropriate for her.
I could understand  Miss Ts concerns if I were persuaded by them, but Im afraid Im not. I 
say this because  Miss T also said during her complaint that she didnt  need  car breakdown 
cover because she had a Motability car.
Its also worth noting that Miss T used the Travel Plus Packs car breakdown cover three 
times whilst she held that Pack. So its clear she was aware of that benefit, and was relying 
on it.
Although Miss T didnt actively engage  with or claim on all of the benefits, that doesnt make 
the account unsuitable for her. I cant see any reason that she couldnt  have used  the 
accounts other benefits if shed wanted  or needed  to. So I dont think Barclays  made an 
unfair recommendation when it sold the Travel  Plus Pack to her.
When Miss T changed her account  to the Travel Pack in November 2016 the main difference  
between the packs  was that the Travel Pack didnt include  some  of the ancillary benefits that 
the Travel Plus Pack included, and the breakdown cover didnt offer recovery to any address 
(recovery was limited to 10 miles). However  the Travel Pack  was also £5 cheaper than 
Miss Ts previous pack, and still offered car breakdown cover  and worldwide travel  
insurance.
Ref: DRN22882393I can see a transaction  to a holiday company the day after this upgrade  in November 2016  
so I think its likely Miss T did go on holiday,  even if those holidays were  within  the United 
Kingdom. And so I think she made the choice  to change her Travel Plus Pack to the Travel  
Pack based  on the benefits  that were important to her. I understand that she didnt go on to 
make use of or claim  on all of the accounts  benefits,  but that doesnt mean Barclays was 
wrong to sell it to Miss T in the first place.
Given Miss Ts awareness of, and prior use of the car breakdown  cover, I also think  that she 
wanted to continue to benefit  from the Travel Packs  car breakdown cover.  
 
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think its more likely than not that Barclays gave Miss T 
enough information about the Travel Plus Pack and the Travel Pack for her to be able to 
understand what they were, and make a decision about whether  she wanted them. She may 
not have used all the benefits  but this doesnt mean Barclays mis-sold the accounts. 
I also accept that its possible that Barclays didnt tell Miss T everything  it should have about 
the Travel Plus Pack and the Travel Pack. But I havent seen anything  to make me think that 
Miss T wouldnt  still have taken them, even if Barclays  had told her more about  them.  
Miss T has shared information with this service about her health conditions  and how the 
medication she takes affects her  including how it can make  her confused and unable to 
make an informed decision. Im sorry that this is the case and I can certainly  understand why 
that might  concern  Miss T when  dealing with a bank  or a large company. But I also have to 
consider whether Barclays  treated  her fairly  in light of what it knew  about her. And Barclays 
doesnt have a record of any additional  or specific needs that Miss T has  so it would be 
unfair for me to expect  Barclays to have treated her any differently, based on information 
that it doesnt appear to have known.
I want to reassure Miss T that Ive looked  at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so I dont think  Barclays  mis-
sold the Travel  Plus Pack or the Travel Pack to her. So I dont think  it owes her any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2288239