K820x#14complaint
Miss F says Tesco Underwriting Limited  was wrong  to treat her motor insurance policy as 
though it had never existed and not pay a claim she made on it.
background
In December 2018 Miss F bought  the policy through a comparison website. She said she 
was the cars registered keeper. It was stolen in January  2019.  Whilst validating the claim, 
Tesco noted  that Miss Fs brother was the cars  registered keeper. It said it wouldnt have 
agreed to provide cover had it known that when she bought the policy. It told Miss F that as 
shed misrepresented the facts, the policy was invalid from the start, which meant  the claim 
wasnt covered. Tesco  returned the premium Miss F had paid.
Miss F said shed made a mistake, but that the question on the comparison website  that 
shed replied to was ambiguous. It asked whether she was - or would be - the registered 
keeper. Miss F says she intended  to take over the lease and the car from her brother,  so she 
answered yes to the question. Miss F provided evidence that shed contacted the local 
council about  getting a permit to park the car from December 2018. She thought  it showed  
her intention to become  the cars registered  keeper and why there  was a delay in that. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Fs complaint. He thought  the question about  the 
cars registered keeper was clear. He said Tesco had shown  that it wouldnt have provided 
cover had it known the facts, so it was reasonable for it to avoid the policy.  He didnt think  
Miss F had been able to show that she was going  to become the cars registered keeper. 
Miss F said the car leasing company couldnt  provide any evidence of her brother asking for 
her to take over the lease, although many calls between them had taken place. She asked 
for a review  of her complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional decision  upholding 
Miss Fs complaint as follows:
In line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) its for Tesco to show that Miss F didnt take reasonable care when answering 
questions during the sales process . 
To decide whether Miss F took reasonable care, I have to look at the question  that was 
asked. I dont think it was clear enough. Miss F was asked  whether she was - or was going 
to be - the cars registered  keeper. I think its fair to say that the wording is probably intended 
to cover the situation  where a consumer  is buying insurance just prior to becoming a cars 
registered keeper.  But there was nothing in the question to indicate  there  was a time limit. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Miss F to think it covered her situation.  
The leasing  company couldnt provide evidence of the calls Miss Fs brother made to it. But 
in my opinion, the exchange of emails between  Miss F and the local council is helpful. It 
shows that Miss F was trying to take over the lease before she bought the policy.  It also 
shows that the leasing firm had said no changes could be made until the lease expired. But 
I think its clear  from the correspondence that Miss F didnt think there  was a problem with 
her insuring the car despite  not being  its registered  keeper at the time. 
As I dont think the question Tesco  asked  was clear enough, I dont think  Tesco can show  
that Miss F didnt take reasonable care in answering it. I dont think  it can show that she 
made a misrepresentation. I think it was reasonable for Miss F to say she was going  to be 
Ref: DRN21341872the cars  registered  keeper. In my opinion, that means Tesco isnt able to avoid the policy, so 
it should be reinstated. I think  it should also consider Miss Fs claim. 
The payments to the finance company continued after the theft, including  a final balloon  
payment of over £5,200. Meanwhile  Miss F was without  the car. Had she been  asked a clear 
question, theres  no reason to think she wouldnt have answered it correctly.  Miss F then 
wouldnt have been offered the policy. Unless shed been able to find cover elsewhere  
(which seems very unlikely  in the circumstances)  she wouldnt have taken the car on. I think 
its likely  her brother would then have kept the car, with his insurance  for it in place. So the 
theft would  have been covered. He might also have returned the car early to the leasing 
company. Either way, the situation Miss F has had to face would have been avoided.  
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for Tesco  to pay 
Miss F £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Miss F didnt comment.  Tesco 
didnt accept that she had answered the question accurately.  It said she had claimed to be 
the cars  owner  as well as its registered keeper. It said the cars ownership  status  was 
unacceptable to it. It didnt think the correspondence she had with the local authority was 
relevant. Tesco also queried the proposed remedies.  It said as it would never have offered 
cover to Miss F, it didnt  know  what the appropriate premium would be. And it asked who any 
settlement would be paid to, as it thought Miss F didnt have an insurable interest in the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco voided the policy on the basis of Miss F not being the cars registered keeper. It hasnt 
raised the issue of the cars  ownership  previously. But in any event I think the same applies  
to the question of whether she was going to be the cars owner. That was also Miss Fs aim. 
I remain of the view that the question she was asked was unclear. And I think the local 
authority correspondence is useful because  it supports Miss Fs claim that she fully intended 
to be the cars registered keeper. 
Tesco charged Miss F a premium for the policy and returned it to her, so I would say thats 
the appropriate premium.  I havent asked Tesco to pay the claim but to consider it. So the 
question of whether  she has an insurable  interest  isnt part of this complaint. Its something 
Tesco would have  to consider in due course. If Miss F isnt happy with the outcome shell 
need to complain to Tesco first about  that. She has the option of referring  the matter  to this 
service if she thinks thats appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco  Underwriting Limited to do 
the following:
Reinstate the policy, subject to Miss F paying  the appropriate premium
Remove any record of the voidance from databases and write to Miss F saying the policy  
was voided in error
Consider Miss Fs claim 
Pay Miss F £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN21341873Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2134187