K821x#15complaint
IPPFs complaint is about Michael James (trading as West Country Financial  (WCF)), its 
financial adviser in 2016. IPPF is represented  by its trustee,  Mr P, who says WCF  did the 
following:
It did not follow instructions to execute  a change  of funds  in IPPFs investment 
portfolio(s) on 1 July 2016. [issue 1]
It did not follow the same instructions for a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) 
portfolio. [issue 2]
It received and has not returned  a commission overpayment of £600. [issue  3]
It did not inform him/IPPF about £15,000 held and un-invested  in an investment 
account. [issue 4]
IPPF seeks  redress  for the above  issues and an award to cover  its complaint costs.
background
IPPFs pursuit has been ongoing since 2016 and in addition to WCFs role as its adviser a 
third party investment manager (IM) also features in the matter.  
A total of four complaints (from  IPPF  and from Mr P in a personal  capacity)  have arisen on 
the basis of the same,  similar  and/or  overlapping issues.  Each of the two complainants has 
complained about each  of the two respondent firms.  The other three complaints will be 
addressed separately. However, to date and within this service, all four complaints have 
been considered in a somewhat collective manner. Over time, this led to well-rehearsed and 
sometimes revised submissions by the parties and also to revised  views  by the investigator 
who considered  the complaints. The summary  below  captures the current state of the 
complaint between IPPF and WCF:
Issue 1 is about instructions to execute specific investment switches in IPPFs 
portfolio on 1 July 2016. The investigator  concluded that, overall, WCF is responsible 
for the execution delay  up to September 2016, when the IM received WCFs 
conveyance, on IPPFs behalf,  of the instructions. The investigator  provided a 
spreadsheet to illustrate how redress had been calculated  for IPPF. IPPF accepts 
this outcome. WCF  does  not. In the main, it does not accept  full responsibility for the 
execution delay;  it says it mitigated  the delay by executing a beneficial investment 
switch in August  2016 which has been  disregarded by the investigator; it says but for 
unauthorised and erroneous investment corrections by the IM thereafter  (between 
November 2016 and January 2017) the portfolio would have gained, by 
January 2017,  around £6,000 more than it would have  if the instructions had been 
executed on 1 July 2016; it says those investment  corrections  caused  the main  
detriment to IPPFs portfolio.
With regards to issue 2, the investigator was not persuaded that there is enough  
evidence to conclude  that the same instruction(s)  was given for the SIPP  portfolio. 
IPPF disagrees and, previously, Mr P presented  the extent  of evidence he had to 
support IPPFs claim. However, his present position on behalf  of IPPF is that even 
though it stands by this issue  we should   take no further action  on it. 
Mr P/IPPF appears to have reached  this conclusion  in the belief  that there is not 
much value  in the claim.
Issue 3 is about commission payments received by WCF  from IPPFs SIPP provider.  
The investigator concluded that evidence  from the SIPP  provider does not support 
Ref: DRN26414622the suggestion that WCF received anything  (or £600) more  in commission than it was 
entitled to receive.  IPPF does not quite appear to have accepted this outcome  but, on 
its behalf, Mr P said there is nothing  further  to add to his previous submissions.
Issue 4 is about alleged  lost growth arising  from unawareness  of £15,000 in a 
suspense account  within IPPFs pension account  with the IM. It appears to relate to 
suspended payments  of £5,000 and £10,000 which could not be completed because 
the requisite trustees  signature was not obtained.  WCF said it was not in a position  
to know which payments were or were not received by IPPF and that it investigated 
the matter with the IM after Mr P raised it. As a gesture of goodwill it agreed to 
redress the matter and it offered Mr P (for IPPF) the sum of £536, representing the 
value of lost growth calculated  by the IM for the period the two payments were 
disinvested. The investigator concluded that WCF could have done more  after the IM 
contacted it about  the amounts and she considered that appropriate redress  is the 
value of interest, at 8% simple  per year, for the period(s)  over which  IPPF  did not 
have access to the money and up to October  2016 when WCF stopped being IPPFs 
adviser. This amounted to £867, which the investigator proposed  as redress to IPPF  
for issue 4. As a gesture  of goodwill and without the admission of liability,  WCF  
agreed to this conclusion.
The investigator explained, with reasons, that this service does not normally make awards 
for costs and why she did not uphold IPPFs request for such an award. As the complaint 
was not resolved it was referred  to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Issue 1
WCF does  not appear to dispute having a degree of responsibility for the delayed  execution 
of the instruction  after all, the instruction  was given to WCF. Mr P (for (IPPF) was entitled 
to rely upon  WCF to ensure the instruction was executed as given, that would be the logic 
behind WCF  taking  the instruction. Overall, I am satisfied that responsibility in this affair  
began with a failure  or an omission  on WCFs  part  especially as the investigator  identified 
evidence that it was in a position to access or monitor the relevant platform  and know  that 
the instruction  had not been  executed  at the time. WCF says: 
It mitigated its initial omission  by conducting  changes to the portfolio in August 2016  
which, upon analysis,  had the longer term prospect  of putting the portfolio in a better  
position than it would  have been if the instructions were executed on 1 July 2016  and 
which did put the portfolio in a better position  up to the termination of its service in 
October 2016.
The main detriment  to the portfolio, which also disrupted the benefits of the changes  
it made in August  2016, was the set of unauthorised corrections that the IM made  
between November 2016 and January 2017.
In a different  complaint, this argument  might hold merit. For example, if the matter was one 
of unsuitable advice and if subsequent suitable  advice mitigated or rectified  the matter, it 
could be argued  that the subsequent  event should  be considered in the way WCF says its 
August 2016 mitigation event should  be considered. However, IPPFs  complaint about issue 
1, as it has been presented, relates to the specific matter of an express  investment 
Ref: DRN26414623instruction which  WCF did not comply  with and did not execute when it was supposed  to be 
executed. Evidence  supports the conclusion that WCF is liable in this respect and the 
complaint about  issue 1 can reasonably  be upheld for IPPF  and against WCF.
WCF says the changes in August 2016  were better than the outcome the portfolio would 
have had if it included  the switches instructed for I July 2016. I understand its point. 
However, the complaint is that specific switches were what IPPF wanted  for the portfolio  and 
WCF did not deliver that. 
The investigator proposed redress based on the funds in the specific  switches.  In the main, 
the spreadsheets for redress proposed: 
that the base  period is between July 2016  (when the specific switches should have 
been executed) and September 2016  (when the IM eventually  received the 
instruction for the switches and when the IMs responsibility in the matter  began); 
that redress is defined  by the deficits between  the units of the relevant funds 
achievable on the first date and the units achievable  on the second date; 
that the unit prices,  for calculating unit values, are what  they were for the relevant 
funds on 13 March  2017 when the portfolio  and its contents were  subject to a 
substantial restructuring;
that redress should also reflect growth  in the portfolio  from 13 March 2017  to the date 
of settlement and in this respect the portfolios growth rate of 13.08%,  between 
13 March 2017 and 13 July 2018, was suggested.
I am satisfied with redress having its basis in the period between the two dates, this also 
illustrates that WCF is not being held responsible for the period in which  the IM had the 
relevant responsibility.  Redress reasonably aims  to put IPPF back  to the position it would 
have been with regards to the specific fund switches on 1 July 2016, so it is reasonable to 
calculate the deficits in the funds units achievable between the two dates. The date of the 
portfolio restructuring (13 March 2017) has been  used  as the pricing  point to calculate the 
value of the deficit units. I do not consider that the redress value  should  not be considered in 
the context of the portfolio  and I agree with the investigators proposal for redress to reflect 
growth in the portfolio to the date of settlement.  WCF says the growth rate she proposed  has 
potentially changed  since 13 July 2018. To cater for this her view already suggests that the 
growth rate calculation  can be updated.  WCFs point about the IMs conduct between 
November 2016  and January 2017  was addressed separately by the investigator in the 
complaint in which the IM is respondent. I am taking the same  approach.
Issue 2
In this issue, it appears that the ISA belong  to Mr P personally but the SIPP  belonged to the 
pension fund. I note Mr Ps current position on this issue in both respects and I consider that 
his instruction to the investigator should be observed. He (on his and IPPFs behalf) wants 
no further action  to be taken and I appreciate that he has reached this decision whilst still 
standing by the assertion that WCF did not follow his instructions for the SIPP  and ISA. For 
the sake of completeness,  I should  note that in the course of considering the evidence in the 
complaint file and before  becoming  aware  of Mr Ps current position on this issue,  I too 
reached the same conclusion as the investigator  that, on balance, there is not enough 
evidence to support  the allegation  in this issue.
Issue 3
Ref: DRN26414624I have not seen evidence to support the allegation that WCF received commission  that it 
ought not to have received. The investigator obtained relevant statements from the SIPP  
provider and additional information related to another account cited  in relation to the 
allegation. The former shows no evidence of commission overpaid to WCF  and the same 
applies to the latter.
Issue 4
I consider this issue resolved on the basis of WCFs acceptance of the investigators  
proposal of £867  in redress to IPPF.
Cost Award
I have reached the same  conclusion as the investigators in this respect,  and for the same 
reasons. I do not consider that WCF should cover  the costs IPPF has referred to.
what should  WCF do?
WCF should  pay redress  to IPPF  for issues 1 and 4. 
With regards to issue 1, I endorse  the investigators proposal  for redress with specific  
regard to IPPFs portfolio(s).  
I endorse the details  given by the investigator, in her letter dated 13 November 2018, 
for the calculation of redress in issue 1 and for such calculation up to 13 July 2018.  I 
also endorse the contents of the spreadsheets that the investigator provided  as part 
of her proposal for redress. WCF must pay redress to IPPF on the basis  of the details 
in the investigators  letter and spreadsheets.
WCF must calculate  IPPFs portfolios additional growth rate from 14 July 2018 to the 
date of settlement.  I appreciate that WCF has not had a role in the portfolio since 
October 2016, so Mr P (for IPPF) must  assist  it with information it needs  in order  to 
calculate the portfolios growth rate in this respect. WCF must then apply the 
portfolios additional  growth  rate to the 13 July 2018 redress value and calculate the 
resulting additional redress value from 14 July 2018  to the date of settlement. WCF 
must pay such additional redress value to IPPF.
WCF must pay IPPF £867 as compensation for issue  4.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold IPPFs complaint only in relation to issues  1 and 4. I 
order Michael James (trading as West Country  Financial) to pay it compensation as ordered 
above and to provide it with the calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple  format. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask IPPF to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2641462