K820x#14complaint
Mr F on behalf  of Mr and Mrs H has complained  about the way Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited handled a claim for fire damage under their home insurance policy.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs H made  a claim to Lloyds after a fire in their main  bedroom 
caused a lot of damage to their home. Lloyds accepted the claim and arranged  for a 
restoration company  to clean the property  and assess the contents  claim.
Mr and Mrs H appointed  a loss assessor,  Mr F, to help them with their claim.
Mr F complained to Lloyds about  the way it had handled the claim. He raised  the following 
points:
 Mr and Mrs H shouldnt  have  had to find their own alternative accommodation.
 Mr and Mrs H didnt  receive any food allowances while  they were staying in temporary  
accommodation.
 It didnt  take into consideration  their dog when arranging a hotel.
 It took seven months for Lloyd to agree to pay for a surveyor to oversee the repair 
works.
 Lloyds  restoration  company should  have cleaned Mrs Hs jewellery  rather than leaving 
Mr and Mrs H to sort this out.
 Its contractor hadnt finished  cleaning rooms.
 Lloyds  had unfairly queried costings provided by Mr and Mrs H.
 No protective clothing was provided  for Mr and Mrs H to examine their damaged  items.
 Lloyds  had refused to respond  to emails and voicemails.
 The cash settlement  offered by Lloyds  was lower than the amount claimed.
 Mr and Mrs Hs home was falling into disrepair.
Lloyds responded as follows:
 Its supplier had arranged a hotel after Mr and Mrs H had stayed with family  initially. Its 
supplier had then looked for a rental property for them.
 It was happy to consider reasonable costs in respect of a food allowance.
 It accepted that the dog couldnt  stay in the hotel but said this was only an interim 
solution until a rental property was found.
 At the start of the claim  Lloyds  thought  the repairs could be handled  competently by its 
contractor. It only agreed  to appoint a surveyor  when it received Mr and Mrs Hs 
estimates of the rebuilding costs because  they were  much more than it expected.
 Its restoration company doesnt clean  jewellery but it would consider Mr and Mrs Hs 
costs for having this done.
 Its contractor left items where  they were until they had been costed.
 Lloyds  had treated it as a complex  claim and scrutinised  it in the same way as it would 
other similar claims.
 Lloyd  had provided a full list of the items and only asked Mr and Mr H to cost them.
 It had only refused  to respond to emails and voicemails while  it was waiting for 
confirmation that Mr F was authorised to act on behalf of Mr and Mrs H in connection 
with the claim.
 The settlement  was still under  negotiation.
 The property  was being  repaired.
Ref: DRN24565782Mr F brought  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint to this service. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. He 
didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or unreasonably. As Mr F didnt agree, 
the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  Ive only given a brief summary 
above, Ive read and understood everything  submitted  by both parties.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others and fire claims are particularly distressing. But 
when this service considers whether  to award compensation, were looking at what trouble 
and upset the insurer has caused to its policy holder  above and beyond that which wed 
normally expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
With that in mind Ill look at the various issues raised by Mr F in turn.
Two days after the fire Lloyds referred Mr and Mrs H to its supplier which finds temporary 
accommodation. The supplier only had a few properties available, so Mr and Mrs H started  
looking for a suitable  property  themselves. I appreciate  that they then spent about a week  
doing this. But in my experience policyholders  often prefer to find their own rental  property 
since they inevitably have  a better  idea of what might suit their needs. I think  it was Mr and 
Mrs Hs choice to take on this task. They could have  left it to Lloyds supplier if they wished. 
Once theyd found a suitable property, Lloyds immediately agreed to pay six months rent 
and fees.
Since Lloyds  has said its happy to consider Mr and Mrs Hs claim for a food allowance, I 
wont consider this aspect  further.
Many hotels dont allow  pets and so Id expect Lloyds to have covered the cost of 
temporarily housing  their dog if Mr and Mrs H had wanted this. I can understand why they 
didnt want this for their dog after it had been traumatised by the fire. But I dont think Lloyds 
treated them  unreasonably because their dog wasnt able to stay in the hotel.
Under the terms of the policy it was up to Lloyds  how it repaired Mr and Mrs Hs property so 
long as it put them back into the position  theyd been in before the fire happened. Lloyds 
said that initially its contractor was going  to carry out the works and they would have been 
supervised by a competent person within Lloyds. When  Mr and Mrs H decided they wanted 
to proceed with their own contractor, it agreed to pay for a surveyor to oversee the works. I 
dont think Lloyds was unreasonable in not factoring in the cost of a surveyor  from the 
outset.
Again it was up to Lloyds  to arrange for Mr and Mrs Hs jewellery to be cleaned or to pay 
them the cost of this. Since its supplier didnt offer this service, I dont think  its acted unfairly 
in saying that it would pay Mr and Mrs Hs costs for this instead.
Mr F says that Lloyds restoration  company  wasnt given enough time to clean  the house 
properly. I can see that it was working  in the property from 4 to 23 April when it said the 
decontamination was complete. Ive read a report prepared in February  2019  by a company 
on behalf of Mr and Mrs H. The purpose of that report was to report  on the decontamination  
Ref: DRN24565783to contents in the property. It doesnt mention that the property hadnt  been properly cleaned. 
So Im not persuaded that the cleaning was inadequate.
I appreciate that Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs H their contents claim wouldnt be fully settled until 
they had costed every item they were  claiming for. But I cant see that Lloyds did anything 
out of the ordinary for a claim  with such a large number of damaged contents. Its normal  for 
insurers in such situations to require consumers to prove and substantiate their loss. 
Lloyds asked Mr and Mrs H to provide costings for their damaged  contents.  It didnt  say that 
they had to go back into the property  to do that. So I dont think it was under any obligation  
to supply protective  clothing and equipment. The exercise could have been done  from the 
list provided. I appreciate  that it must have been very difficult  for Mrs H to spend time in the 
contaminated property  working on the list but I cant hold Lloyds responsible  for that. I hope  
she doesnt suffer any lasting ill-effects as a result.
Mr and Mrs H appointed  their loss assessor  in June 2018. Although it may have been 
frustrating for Mr F, I think Lloyds acted properly in not discussing Mr and Mrs Hs claim with 
him until they had confirmation of his authority. I havent seen evidence of any other failure  
or slowness  in responding on the part of Lloyds.
Where discussions are continuing about the settlement, it would  be inappropriate for me to 
comment. 
Mr and Mrs H accept that their property is being repaired.  But they say Lloyds has refused to 
pay for the garden  to be tidied up and after 18 months its like a jungle. This hasnt been 
raised with Lloyds as part of this complaint but Id usually expect an insurer  to arrange or pay 
for some garden maintenance  to restore the garden  to the state  it was in before the fire.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs H have had a very upsetting experience in having their 
home and so many of their possessions badly damaged. I know  they will be disappointed  by 
my decision  but I dont think that Lloyds has treated them unfairly  or unreasonably in the way 
that it handled their claim up to March 2019.  
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs H are still having  problems with their claim but thats  
outside the scope of this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2456578