K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 in connection with a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs K said Lloyds  Bank mis-sold them a PPI policy  in October  2003  through  the 
actions of an employee from a broker company which  I will call Company  F. They said 
Company F acted as an agent for Company C  the lender  - which is now part of the Lloyds 
Banking Group. So they conclude Lloyds Bank has overall responsibility  for looking at their 
complaint. They said the PPI was sold during a meeting and they were  told they had to have 
the policy to get the mortgage.  They complained to Company C.
Company C said it was not responsible  for the PPI sale through Company Fs PPI sale 
representations because it had no agency connection to Company F or to Company Fs 
employees.
Mr and Mrs K complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought Company Cs actions did 
not make  Lloyds Bank responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint and she sent a 
detailed letter to Mr and Mrs K exploring other avenues for them. Mr and Mrs K disagreed 
with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  where I explained why I thought  Lloyds 
Bank was not responsible for looking at this complaint.  I also said I was not going to uphold  
the mis-sale complaint against  Lloyds Bank.  We sent a copy of my provisional decision to all 
parties and invited comments. I have not received any further comments  or evidence from 
either party, so I see no reason to change the conclusions  I made  in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Lloyds Bank is responsible  for the sale of the PPI 
policy through anything done  by Company C in 2003. If I decide it is, then I can decide  
whether the sale happened as it shouldve done.  If I dont  think Lloyds Bank was responsible 
for the sale to Mr and Mrs K, then Im not able to consider a PPI mis-sale complaint against 
it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that Lloyds Bank sold the PPI policy to Mr and 
Mrs K when they applied  for their joint mortgage. So it follows  that if Lloyds Bank did nothing 
wrong during  the PPI sale, I am not going  to uphold this mis-sale complaint against Lloyds 
Bank. I know  this will disappoint Mr and Mrs K, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs K about the sale. They  recalled they 
were applying for a joint mortgage during a meeting. They  said they were  told they had to 
have the PPI to be accepted for the mortgage.  They said they did not need PPI. They said 
they dealt with Company Fs employee who was acting as an agent for Company C; and as 
Ref: DRN27244732Company C is now part of the Lloyds  Banking  Group, they conclude Lloyds Bank should 
now look at their PPI mis-sale complaint.
Company C explained in its final response letter that it did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs K 
through Company Fs actions and it produced the mortgage application form which  was 
completed for Mr and Mrs K in 2003.  In section 11 of the form headed Insurance , the 
option which says:  I do not wish to take out [Company Cs] Payment Protection Plus cover 
has been ticked. Further down the form in a section headed To Be Completed by 
Intermediaries Only,  it asks Has the customer applied  for [Company Cs] Payment 
Protection Plus? and next to that question, the No box has been ticked. The form then 
identifies the person from Company F as giving advice and/or information to the 
customer(s). 
I think it is clear  that Mr and Mrs K did not buy PPI from Company C through Company Fs 
actions. The application  form states quite clearly  that Mr and Mrs K did not buy Company Cs 
PPI product.  The form was dated  and signed by Mr and Mrs K on 30 September  2003, so I 
can reasonably  assume they answered these  insurance questions. 
It is possible they bought a different PPI product  through  Company F to cover their mortgage 
repayments but I have not seen any evidence to show  Company F was acting  on behalf of 
Company C during that PPI sale. So in this case, I do not agree with Mr and Mrs K that 
Company C, (and therefore Lloyds Bank) is responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale 
complaint through the actions of Company F.  
As I think  Lloyds Bank was not responsible for the PPI sale through  Company Fs actions, it 
follows that it also was not responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly.  So I am not 
going to uphold this PPI mis-sale complaint against  Lloyds Bank. 
I can see our adjudicator did a very thorough investigation and reported  on all possible 
avenues of complaint  to Mr and Mrs K but  and I am sorry to disappoint them  - this will be 
as far as this Service can take this complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC is not responsible  for looking at this complaint and 
I do not uphold  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2724473