K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that TSB Bank  plc blocked and then closed his bank accounts. And took too 
long to release  his funds to him. He says this caused him trouble and upset and he wants 
the bank to pay him compensation.  
Background
Mr E had several accounts  with TSB. 
On 7 January  2019 Mr E paid £10,000  in cash into his Easy Saver  account.  On 15 January 
2019 a faster payment  of £10,000  from another bank, which  I will refer to as bank B, was 
paid into his current account and sent out the same day to an account  Mr E had with another  
bank. TSB took the view that it needed to look into the payments and how Mr E was 
operating his account. Whilst it completed  a review  TSB blocked  Mr Es access to his 
accounts.
On 31 January 2019, Mr E discovered that his accounts were blocked when he tried to make  
some online transactions.  Mr E rang TSB and was told to visit a branch. When Mr E went  
into branch, he explained  that bank Bs customer was his friend, and the £10,000 was 
repayment of a loan on behalf  of her mother. The bank  staff told Mr E that they needed  to 
see proof of his entitlement to the funds and explained that this was needed  because  bank B 
had some concerns  about how their customer was operating their account. 
On 5 February 2019, Mr E went into branch and provided TSB with a copy of his friends 
bank account  to show he was entitled to the money paid into his account. TSB contacted 
bank B, who said they were still looking into things. So, on 6 February 2019, TSB called 
Mr E to discuss  his next steps. As bank B were  still looking into their customers account, 
they advised Mr E to speak to his friend to get them to update  TSB on their investigation. 
And gave  him 14 days to do this or his accounts would be closed. Mr E said hed do this as 
soon as possible. 
On 20 February 2019, TSB spoke to Mr E and asked him about the cash  payment. Mr E told 
the bank that the payment  was made up of loan repayments from friends and repayment for 
items hed purchased on behalf of his friends and family. TSB asked him to provide proof  of 
entitlement to the funds, On 21 February 2019,  Mr E provided TSB with paperwork to 
support what hed said including receipts and excel spreadsheets of him buying gifts for his 
friends and family. TSB reviewed the paperwork and asked him to provide more information  
about the source of the funds. Mr E wasnt happy  with this response and raised a complaint 
with the bank.
In response, TSB said it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Mr Es account and 
asked him to provide proof of his entitlement to the funds in his accounts. 
On 3 March 2019,  TSB made the decision to close Mr Es accounts immediately. On 7 and 
15 March 2019,  TSB wrote to Mr E asking  him to provide more  information about the money 
paid into his accounts so that the bank could  release  the funds to him. Mr E wasnt  happy 
with this as he thought  hed provided  all the information he could, and the bank  hadnt  
specified what else it needed to see. So, he instructed a solicitor to write  to the bank to get 
his money released.
On 1 May 2019,  Mr E provided TSB with a letter from his friend explaining why shed given 
Mr E the money and copies of her bank statement. After making some further checks  with 
Ref: DRN26325002bank B, regarding the contents of the letter, TSB accepted Mr E was entitled to the money in 
his accounts and agreed to send him a cheque for his balance of just under £11,200 within  
five days. 
TSB didnt  issue Mr E a cheque until 22 May 2019  and it accepts  it should  have provided 
Mr E with better service   it said there  was a delay in getting the cheque signed and posted.  
TSB apologised  for the delay and paid Mr E £50 compensation  along  with £7 to cover his 
phone calls and trips to branch, and £41.21 for 8% whilst deprived of the funds  from 
2 May 2019  to 22 May 2019.  
Mr E wasnt  happy with this outcome. He said the bank didnt tell him it had blocked  his 
accounts and he only found out when he tried to make an online transfer.  He said TSB 
didnt tell him what he needed  to provide to get his money released and didnt return his 
calls. He says he had to instruct a solicitor  to get things resolved. So, he wants  the bank  to 
compensate him for his legal costs.  
Mr E brought his complaint to our service  where  an investigator considered it. The 
investigator said TSB had done enough to put things right.  And hadnt done  anything wrong 
when it had blocked Mr Es account and asked him for information.  
Mr E didnt accept the investigators view. He wants the bank  to pay him compensation for 
his legal costs.  
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that TSB has important legal  and regulatory  
obligations it must meet when providing  accounts to customers. These obligations are 
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations  
TSB may need to review  an account and/or restrict its customers  access.  If TSB didnt  
comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction.
In order to meet these  requirements TSB is entitled  to ask a customer for more  information  
about how they use their account, including payments which are made into an account. And 
its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank 
has made any mistakes and then put the customer back  in the position  theyd have  been  in if 
the mistake hadnt  happened.
Having looked  at all the evidence, I dont  believe  it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for TSB to block Mr Es accounts  and ask him for information about the money which  had 
been paid into his accounts  in January  2019. TSB has explained that this was its standard 
procedure, and I accept  that it was. So, whilst I accept this caused Mr E inconvenience,  I 
cant say TSB treated him unfairly when it blocked his account. And asked him to provide 
information. 
I understand Mr E wants TSB to explain why it didnt let him know it had blocked his 
accounts. I can appreciate not being  able to access his account  wouldve caused Mr E worry 
Ref: DRN26325003and concern. But TSB doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr E this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Mr E says TSB took too long to complete its review of his accounts and the information he 
provided. And should have done  things  more quickly. Hes explained that he had to engage  
a solicitor to get things  moving. I do accept that it took just under two months for TSB to 
release Mr Es money  to him. But I do not consider that it would be right for me to conclude  it 
should not have taken  in excess  of any particular or specific timeframe.  Because  the bank 
was entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did. So, it wouldnt be appropriate  for 
me to award Mr E compensation.
I also note that TSB spoke to Mr E on more  than one occasion and asked him to provide 
information about specific payments into his account. So, I think TSB kept Mr E informed 
about what it was doing. And what information it needed from him. Mr E provided paperwork, 
and I dont think it unreasonable that the bank needed time to examine  what  hed provided 
and make enquiries with bank B. The bank needed to be satisfied Mr E was entitled to the 
money.  And  from looking at the information Mr E initially provided about  the payments, I can 
understand why TSB didnt think it was sufficient  and wanted more  information. I can also 
see that Mr E didnt provide some information  (a letter  from his friend) until early May 2019  
despite being asked to do so some weeks earlier. Overall, I think TSB took appropriate 
measures to find a way forward for Mr E to be able to access  the money remaining in his 
bank account.  And completed its review in a timely  manner.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Es account. Its generally  for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking  facilities to any 
particular customer.  Unless theres a very good  reason to do so, this service  wont  usually 
say that a bank  must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer  who has had 
their account  closed.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing  an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
TSB closed  Mr Es account immediately. In my view that was reasonable given the banks 
concerns about  how Mr E was operating his accounts. So, it was entitled to close the 
accounts as it has already  done.  
Ive also considered Mr Es request for compensation in relation to the legal costs hes 
incurred by instructing  a solicitor to pursue this matter with the bank. Mr E says he had to do 
this because TSB werent engaging with him. However, this isnt something that Im going to 
ask TSB to compensate Mr E for in this case. Of course, people are free to use a solicitor  to 
complain to us, but we usually take the view that they dont need to. And Ive not seen 
anything in this case that persuades me that this complaint  needed legal representation. I 
also note that TSB sent Mr E a final response letter on 7 March  2019, which set out its 
position on his complaint.  So, I dont  agree, that TSB werent  engaging  with Mr E about what  
it was doing and werent trying to find a way forward for Mr E to gain access  to his money. 
The letter also provided Mr E with our services  details  and told him that he was able to bring 
his complaint to us for free, which appears  to have been before Mr E engaged a solicitor. So, 
it was Mr Es choice whether he instructed a solicitor and therefore  TSB isnt liable for the 
costs incurred by him.
Its only fair that TSB should compensate Mr E for any losses,  distress  and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of its errors. TSB has accepted it didnt send out the cheque  for 
Ref: DRN26325004Mr Es closing  balance  as quickly as it should  have done. Mr E had to wait twenty days to 
receive a cheque instead of five. And he had to chase the bank  to try and find out what was 
going on. So, I can see why Mr E was upset. And, I agree that he is entitled to receive  some  
compensation for the inconvenience he experienced arising  from that delay and poor 
communication. 
The bank has accepted it should have  dealt with things better. It apologised and offered 
Mr E £50 compensation and an additional £7 to cover his call costs, and £48.21  interest for 
loss of use of his funds.  I know  Mr E wont agree,  but I think  TSB has done enough to put 
things right. So, Im not going to ask them to do anything more.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not going to ask TSB Bank  plc to do anything more to 
resolve Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632500