K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that Nationwide  Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them regular premium 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with NBS. A PPI policy  to cover their mortgage  
repayments in the event  of accident or sickness and unemployment was included free for the 
first 12 months as part of the mortgage  package, after which a premium  became payable 
and the policy could be cancelled. 
Along with the free insurance Mr and Mrs W also took out extra  PPI known as MOG cover 
which covered Mr W only. A successful claim on the policy  wouldve paid out £100 a month 
for 24 months if Mr W was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or if he lost his job.
Before premiums were due to start being  charged  on the PPI policy included with their 
mortgage package  the policy was cancelled,  but the MOG cover continued. In 1997  
Mr and Mrs W cancelled  their MOG cover  and took out another  PPI policy  increasing  the 
benefit from £100 to £200. Again this policy was to cover Mr W only.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
policy offered a useful  benefit and if they didnt want PPI with their mortgage they couldve 
gone to a different mortgage  provider.
Mr and Mrs W disagree. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
NBS have told us the PPI came free for 12 months  as part of its Home to Home mortgage  
package. NBS had to make it clear the PPI was part of the mortgage package  and that 
Mr and Mrs W agreed to take it. NBS doesnt  have any documents  from the time and cant 
confirm how the PPI was sold which is understandable considering the amount of time that 
has passed. So Ive had to rely on what information  I have and what  I think  is more  likely to 
have happened. 
The PPI was included  with the mortgage free for the first 12 months. I think that this is a 
good benefit and selling  point of the mortgage  package on offer so I think it was likely 
discussed with Mr and Mrs W at the time they took out the mortgage. And I think because 
extra MOG insurance was taken on top its likely they valued the cover and wanted more  
than the free cover that was on offer  though I can understand given the amount of time 
that has past why they might not remember this. 
Ref: DRN25770902I also understand that Mr and Mrs W cancelled the PPI policy that came free with the 
mortgage before any premiums became  chargeable. So I think they understood that they 
didnt have to continue with PPI cover  if they didnt  want  to. 
And I think because it was five years  before they cancelled their MOG policy and took out a 
new PPI policy - increasing their cover  to £200  - they understood that it was their choice 
about how much cover   if any  they could take out and they choose  that level of cover  
because they wanted it.
I dont think NBS advised Mr and Mrs W on what mortgage or level of cover to take. What 
this means is that it didnt  recommend a product to Mr and Mrs W, it just gave them  
information about what was on offer. This information needed to be given  in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading so they could make  an informed choice about taking out the 
policy.
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, I dont know if NBS did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve  made a difference  because I think  
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  still taken  out the mortgage  and PPI if they were  given all the proper  
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
 
Mr W was eligible  for the PPI.
And although Mr W says he had a pre-existing medical condition he also tells us it 
was under control and it doesnt  look like he thought it was something  he would need 
time off work for. And it doesnt look like Mr W wouldve been caught by any of the 
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  
it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr W says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay which would help make  their 
repayments if he couldnt work. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work and 
covered him for potentially longer if he was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs W and if they 
no longer wanted the policy they were  able to cancel  it. 
This means  they arent worse off as a result  of any wrong doing by NBS.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Ref: DRN25770903Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2577090