K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC advised her to invest  in a company which then 
went into liquidation. She says she wanted  to sell her holding, but Barclays  only allowed her 
to sell some  of her shares.
background
Mrs M gave  instructions to buy and sell shares in Carillion from July 2017  until January 2018 
using her general investment account with Barclays. She says that on 9 January 2018  she 
wanted to sell all of her shares  but, when she tried to trade online, she was only able to sell 
part of her holding.  Carillion entered into compulsory liquidation on 15 January 2018.
Barclays said Mrs Ms account  is an execution only account so it didnt provide her with any 
personal recommendation to invest in Carillion. It said there  was no evidence  that shed tried 
to sell her remaining shares.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
the decision to invest in Carillion was Mrs Ms and that there wasnt  evidence  to show that 
shed tried to sell her shares after the trade  placed on 9 January to sell 16,414 shares.
Mrs M didnt  agree saying  that her order to sell all of her shares didnt execute, so she tried 
to sell it in parts. She managed to sell £3,000  worth  of shares  but Barclays  quote and deal 
system wasnt  working for this share.
After our adjudicator had sent his view of the complaint, Barclays sent Mrs M its final 
response letter. It didnt  uphold her complaint but, because  of the delay in sending its 
response, it offered to pay her £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has held a general investment account with Barclays  for around four years.  All share 
trading takes place  on an execution only basis. In other words,  Barclays  doesnt provide 
Mrs M with any advice  or recommendations - it is for Mrs M to decide what  trades she wants 
to place. So it was Mrs Ms decision to invest in Carillion  and Barclays  isnt responsible for 
either her investment, or the companys subsequent  liquidation.
Mrs M traded regularly in Carillion  shares for around  six months, most usually buying and 
selling shares on the same day. On 9 January 2018 she had a holding of 50,183  shares. 
She says she wanted to sell all of her shares. But Barclays says it only received an order  for 
a sale of 16,414 shares.  This was executed.  It says it keeps a record  of all quotes  its given 
to a consumer, even if the consumer decides  not to trade. And it doesnt have a record of 
providing any further quotes to Mrs M for Carillion  either on 9 January or in the days  
following, before  the shares were suspended. Its also told us that, although the price had 
dropped sharply,  it was still possible to trade  in the shares. 
Ref: DRN27116312When Mrs M phoned Barclays  to complain, she said she tried to sell the rest of her holding 
later in the day on 9 January; or she might have tried the following day. She told us shed 
tried to sell all of her holding, but that shed only been able to sell part. Im sorry but Ive not 
seen evidence to persuade me that either  scenario is what  actually happened.  Mrs M has 
also told us about  her particular circumstances on 9 January. Taking  into account these 
circumstances, and Barclays  records, I dont  conclude that Mrs M tried to sell her remaining 
shares  even though this is clearly what shed  planned  and wanted  to do.
Barclays has offered to pay Mrs M £100  to compensate her for the delay in responding to 
her complaint. I will leave Mrs M to contact Barclays  if she wishes to accept its offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2711631