K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  didnt credit £280 paid into his 
account by his representative.
background
Mr Ds representative in this complaint  went  to pay in £300 in cash  into his account at Halifax  
using a deposit machine on 6 September 2018. The machine accepted  £280  of notes but a 
£20 note was rejected.  The representative  says she was asked to follow a member of staff 
and was shown  that this £20 note was counterfeit. But she thought that the other money  had 
been credited  to the account.  Halifax said it had no record  of this deposit  and wouldnt refund 
the money.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that hed seen the 
description by Halifax  staff of what happened  in the branch. A first deposit machine hadnt 
accepted the cash. The representative was directed to use a different one. That rejected the 
£20 note. A member of staff says she told the representative to wait at the machine while  
she dealt with the £20 rejected note. But she then saw that the representative was next to 
her and the representative  confirmed that the other  money had been  paid in. The journal roll 
showed no deposit to Mr Ds account  or surplus funds. The machine had no discrepancies 
for that day at close of business when it was checked. The representative had no receipt for 
the deposit and it was her decision to leave the machine without ensuring the payment was 
made. He thought it most  likely someone  else had taken  the money. And even if there  had 
been CCTV that showed someone else taking the money that wouldnt mean Halifax was 
liable for the loss.
Mr D through his representative didnt agree. She said that everything hinged  on the CCTV 
footage and she wanted a statement from the branch manager explaining why this important 
evidence had been deleted during an ongoing  investigation. Given  this isnt available  she 
should be given  the benefit  of the doubt as she insisted shed been truthful and this was a 
significant amount  of money for her. The representative showed  shed made  two payments 
to Mr D later that day of £175 and £135  (including  she said a £5 fee) as hed told her that the 
money hadnt been received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that our investigator has said to the representative that he wouldnt be asking for a 
further statement  because  he didnt see that the money had been paid in. The CCTV wasnt  
retained beyond  30 days and I dont think it would have necessarily resolved the issue  even 
if there was a clear  view of this machine as Ill explain. 
As the representative  has said there  are many  similarities between  her version of events and 
that from staff. Thats including her attempt to pay the cash  into the machine. And that one of 
the notes was rejected. 
Ive looked carefully  at the journal rolls and audits for the machines that were used. I can see 
that an attempt  to pay money  into Mr Ds account using a first deposit machine  failed.  And 
that this machine was then opened and it is agreed  that all the notes were returned to the 
Ref: DRN20456672representative. The second machine was used with Mr Ds account details shortly after 
(starting at 15:43:16  hours: minutes: seconds) to attempt to deposit the cash  to Mr Ds 
account. Ive seen there were a number of error  messages  generated about  not all the notes 
being valid. More  than one attempt was made  to deposit all the notes.
Halifax had confirmed that if there is a note rejected as here there will be an option either to 
continue with the notes already inserted or to try and insert a rejected note again.  If 
continue is selected  the machine will show the amount counted  and give the option  to 
confirm the transaction or return  the items counted.  The audit for this machine shows that 
the notes were returned at 15:47:27. The machine wasnt  used by another  customer for 
nearly 30 seconds and that person was able to deposit a cheque  successfully.
There is a dispute  over whether the member  of staff told the representative  to wait at the 
machine or follow her to the counter.  I cant see why that member  of staff would tell the 
representative to come to the counter in the middle  of a transaction. Her account is that she 
was checking  the note and it was found to be counterfeit. I also wouldnt have expected  the 
representative to have gone  to the counter unless she had the money back  or thought it had 
been credited.  She didnt receive  any receipt or confirmation and there is no record of the 
money being deposited to that machine or of any cash  imbalances to account for it. 
Having considered all the available evidence Im satisfied on balance  that the notes were  
returned by the machine. That means  that either the representative took them or an 
unknown third party took them. But Im afraid that if the representative left the machine 
without the money  and it was available to someone  else that was also her responsibility and 
not due to any error by Halifax in my judgement.
Given my findings I dont have a basis to require Halifax to do anything further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2045667