K821x#15complaint
Mrs R says PDL Finance Limited (Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 5 short-term loans  Mr Lender provided to Mrs R. Mrs Rs lending 
history is a follows.
Loan Number Date lent Amount Borrowed
1 30 May 2013 £350
2 20 June 2013 £500
3 17 January 2014 £750
4 14 February 2014 £800
5 16 April 2014 £850
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Rs complaint and thought  the loans from loan two onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  agreed  that it should  not have lent loans three,  four 
and five so it offered  to refund the interest  paid on these loans with interest added to this 
figure at 8% simple and remove any information about these loans from Mrs Rs credit file. It 
did not agree to the adjudicators findings  that loan 2 should not have been given. Mrs R did 
not agree  with this and therefore  the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
As Mr Lender has already  agreed with the adjudicators findings for loan 3,4 and 5 this 
decision will only be looking at the remaining loan though as a reminder I will set out in the 
redress section what Mr Lender has already agreed  to do in relation to these loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN23266092the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs R could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
When Mr Lender  first lent to Mrs R the regulator  was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) and 
relevant guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). From 1 April 2014 
onwards the regulator was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations  
and guidance  were included in its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The ILG and 
CONC contained similar guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. The Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook  (CONC)  defines  sustainable  as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Rs complaint.
In relation to Loan 1 I do not think that had proportionate checks been  carried out that Mr 
Lender would have changed its decision to lend to Mrs R. I think  Mr Lender acted 
reasonably by accepting and relying on the information  Mrs R provided. As Ive said above,  
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, less thorough checks  might be reasonable
Loan 2 however was for a greater amount and I think that proportionate checks  for this loan 
shouldve have been a bit more thorough  and shouldve  included asking Mrs R what  other 
short term credit  commitments that she held. Had this been done  I think  would most likely 
have shown that Mrs R had other payday loans at the time of this loan which  means that it 
was unlikely that Mrs R wouldve  been able to repay  this loan in a sustainable manner. At 
the time that this loan was taken  out Mrs R had payments  of over £1,700 due to other 
payday lenders  in the month that Mrs R was supposed to start repaying this loan. Given that 
Mrs R had declared her income as £2,000  these  repayments alongside the new borrowing 
was never  likely to be repaid in a sustainable  manner  and therefore I do not think  that this 
loan should have been agreed.
So I think Mrs R lost out because of this.
putting things right
I require Mr Lender to:
Ref: DRN23266093refund  all interest and charges Mrs R paid on loans two, three, four and five
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  about  loan two from Mrs Rs credit file
remove all information about loans three  to five from Mrs Rs credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr. Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr. Lender must  give 
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Rs complaint. PDL Finance  Limited  
should pay Mrs R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019. 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2326609