K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BFS)  refused to let him reject  a 
faulty car.
Background
In September  2017 Mr M acquired  a second  hand  car at a cost of £9,543. This was funded 
by a deposit of £324.23  and the balance  with a hire purchase  agreement. It was some  three  
years old and had done  30,911 miles.
Mr M says that after four months  the clutch needed  to be repaired at a cost of some £1,600, 
but he has not provided any evidence of this. On 31 May 2018  he noticed there was a 
problem with the car and called out the AA. The engineer identified engine  control faults  and 
misfiring. The car was towed to a local garage  and it carried out investigations over a two 
week period. These showed the engine  had seized. This cost Mr M £1,078.22  and the car 
was then taken  to the dealer.
A new engine was needed  and the dealer offered to cover 75% of the cost. BFS offered to 
refund one monthly finance payment of £171.60. Mr M gave  due consideration to this and 
became aware  that the manufacturer  was offering to replace certain  engines  without charge. 
The dealer  confirmed this applied to his car. A few days after the work was carried out the 
car broke down and the AA was called out. The AA report notes that the cooling pipe was 
refitted and coolant  added. The car was inspected by the dealer and found to be satisfactory.
Mr M decided he had had enough of the car and part exchanged it for another. The part 
exchange value  was £7,919.36 and the balance  of the finance  agreement was £100  more. 
Before selling the car Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was considered by 
one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld.
He said he needed  to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. He noted The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) was of particular relevance  to this 
complaint. It says that under  a contract  to supply goods, there is an implied term that the 
quality of the goods is satisfactory.
Our adjudicator took the view that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. The engine had a 
known fault and the manufacturer  had agreed to replace it. However, Mr M had incurred 
additional costs.  He had paid for the inspection by his local garage and he had also been 
without the car for some time and without a courtesy  car. The adjudicator suggested  he be 
refunded four monthly  finance instalments as well as his costs  being covered and 
compensation of £150 be paid. The business didnt  agree and so the matter has been 
referred to me
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN23395932The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
As the car was three years old some wear  and tear is to be expected, but not for the engine 
to seize within months  of the sale. There is a known fault with this particular engine and the 
manufacturer has accepted the need  to replace engines at no cost to the owner.  I am 
satisfied this is sufficient  to show the car was inherently faulty.  It seems  Mr M wasnt made  
aware of the manufacturers acceptance of the problem prior to the engine seizing up and it 
is not clear when the dealer became aware.
In any event it is clear to me that the car had a significant inherent fault at the point of sale 
and it was open to Mr M to seek to reject it. He didnt do so, but after the engine was 
replaced it developed further faults, possibly connected with the repair  work. Under the CRA 
the supplier has one opportunity to repair the fault and if that fails it is open to the consumer 
to reject the goods.
Mr M chose  to part exchange the car as he no longer  had faith in it. I can understand his 
decision. However, he has found  himself  out of pocket  due to the car being supplied in a 
faulty condition  and it is only right that he be reimbursed  for his losses. He was also without 
the car for some time and had to rely on friends and relatives for transport services. Mr M 
should be recompensed accordingly.
Ref: DRN23395933My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
refund  £1,078.22 to Mr M for the engine inspection,
refund  four monthly payments of £171.60  (totalling £686.40)  for the time Mr M was 
without a car due to the engine fault.
refund  Mr M deposit of £324.23, plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
pay Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2339593