K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H applied for the PPI policy in 2004 at the same time as they applied for their 
mortgage. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. He thought Mrs H wouldnt have been aware  
she had the policy.  
In my provisional decision sent in March 2019 I explained why I didnt agree with our 
adjudicators findings.  I said:
Nationwide had to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H have said they werent given a 
choice in taking  the policy, and that they had to take out the insurance for their mortgage to 
be approved. I cant be certain what was said at the time Mr and Mrs H applied for their 
mortgage and PPI, but Nationwide  has provided  a copy  of the paperwork available from the 
time the policy was sold and the years that followed.
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application had a separate section for PPI that explained the 
policy was free for 12 months. This section has been completed with the level of cover 
required for Mr H only. There was also an option  to decline the policy  which hasnt been 
selected.
With this in mind I think Mr and Mrs H would have known the PPI was optional, and at the 
time chose  to take cover for Mr H only. However  when the policy was setup it covered both 
Mr and Mrs H.
While theres nothing  further from the time the policy was sold to show  Mr and Mrs H chose 
to include cover for Mrs H, and I cant be certain what happened for Mrs H to be added to 
the cover, I think its likely Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take the policy in joint names.  I say this 
because Mr and Mrs H were sent renewal documents for the policy  each year which  clearly 
showed who the policy covered. In addition to this Nationwide have provided a copy  of a 
letter it received  from Mr and Mrs H in response  to the policy renewal invitation in 2007.  The 
letter asks for the policy to be amended  to no longer  include section 2  unemployment 
cover. Its clear  from this letter that Mr and Mrs H had received the renewal notice that 
included who was covered by the PPI. Had Mrs H not been aware she was included on the 
policy I would have  expected her to query  this.
Although it isnt completely clear what happened I think  its most likely Mr and Mrs H decided  
to cover Mrs H under  the PPI after they completed the mortgage application form.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs H got the information they needed  to 
decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  they 
Ref: DRN26648032had of making their repayments which included a separate  income protection  policy to cover  
Mr H and savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs other insurance and 
allowed them to use their savings towards  other essential expenses  they may have had if 
they found themselves unable to work.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like they 
were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for them  if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and
Mrs H.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - including  what theyve said about 
Mr H being self-employed  when  they took the policy. But the terms and conditions  of the 
policy didnt make it any more difficult for self-employed people to make a claim. So these 
points dont change  my decision.
Neither Mr and Mrs H nor Nationwide  provided any further information in response to my 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further  information  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont tax.
my final decision
Nationwide Building  Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and
Mrs H.
Ref: DRN26648033But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2664803