K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the decision by Amtrust International Underwriters DAC (Amtrust) 
to decline a claim under her GAP insurance  policy.
background
As the underwriter of Mrs Ss policy, Amtrust are the responsible  business  for this complaint, 
and Ill refer to them  throughout this decision.
Mrs Ss car was stolen  in August  2018. On 29 August she contacted Amtrust to make a 
claim on her GAP  insurance. 
Amtrust wrote to Mrs S on 30 August. In that letter, they said she should check  with her car 
insurance provider  if they would  provide a brand  new replacement vehicle. Amtrust said 
declining that option may have an effect  on her GAP insurance claim. 
Mrs Ss car insurance provider agreed  to a cash settlement of Mrs Ss claim, and made a 
payment against  the finance  outstanding on her car. Amtrust then declined Mrs Ss GAP 
claim on the grounds that shed refused a replacement car under her car insurance policy.  
Mrs S complains that Amtrusts decision was unfair. She says the model of her car had been 
discontinued and it would have been very hard to find a replacement  vehicle. Mrs S also 
says her car was unsafe given how easily it was stolen, so she wouldnt want  the same 
model again. And Mrs S has said the term in her GAP policy about refusing a replacement 
car wasnt brought to her attention.  
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint but didnt think  Amtrust had done  anything 
wrong. She said Mrs S hadnt made reasonable attempts  to get a replacement car and had 
effectively refused any replacement there might have been. So under the terms of the GAP 
policy she didnt think Amtrust had to cover  Mrs Ss claim.
Mrs S disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ss complaint,  and Ill now explain  why. 
The terms of Mrs Ss GAP policy say:
This policy will not pay any claim where You have [the] option to receive  New 
Vehicle Provision under the terms of Your Motor Insurance Policy  in respect of the 
Total Loss  of Your Insured Vehicle.
And Mrs Ss car insurance policy says that if a car is less than one year old, the insurer  
would replace it with one of the same  make and model, if a replacement is available in the 
UK.
Amtrust have said they declined Mrs Ss claim because she told her insurer she wanted  a 
cash settlement and not a replacement car. Mrs S agrees that she refused a replacement 
Ref: DRN23075162and requested a cash settlement. But she says there were good reasons why she did that, 
and its unfair for Amtrust to decline her claim.  
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, it appears that Mrs S decided she wanted a cash 
settlement before she contacted Amtrust about  her GAP policy. Amtrust have provided a 
copy of an engineers report from Mrs Ss car insurer dated 28 August 2018, which says 
Mrs S had requested  a cash settlement.  
Mrs S contacted Amtrust on 29 August. They wrote to her the following day and said she 
should check with her car insurer if they would provide a brand new replacement vehicle. 
They said declining that option may have an effect on her GAP insurance claim.
I think Amtrusts  letter gave Mrs S the opportunity to speak to her car insurer  about a 
replacement car before  accepting a cash settlement. But Mrs S decided  to go ahead and 
accept the settlement. 
Mrs S has said she knew her car insurer wouldnt have been able to replace her car with one 
of the same  model  because it had been  discontinued. Mrs S says she checked with a local 
dealer in the first week of September, and they had no cars of the same specification. 
Mrs S has also said she wouldnt have wanted the same model again because  of the ease 
with which  it was stolen.  And as the car was the main  family vehicle, Mrs S wanted  a 
replacement quickly and therefore went ahead with a cash settlement.
Under the terms of her car insurance,  it would have been for Mrs Ss insurer  to find a 
replacement car. Mrs S provided  a copy of an email  from the manufacturer in October 2018 
which suggested there might have  been  a few in stock. I cant be sure whether one would 
have been available. But Ive not seen any evidence that Mrs S asked  her insurer to pursue 
a replacement. 
Instead, Mrs S decided to refuse the option  of a replacement  car. She was of course entitled 
to do that. But, given the terms of her GAP policy, I cant say that Amtrust have done 
anything wrong  in declining her claim. 
Mrs S has also said the term about  a replacement car wasnt  made clear when she bought 
the GAP policy, or when  she first contacted Amtrust  to make a claim. And it seems from the 
engineers report  in August 2018 that Mrs S thought she would be able to claim on her GAP 
policy even if she accepted a cash settlement. 
Amtrust werent responsible for the sale of Mrs Ss policy.  And I cant  be sure what  was said 
to her at the time she bought it. But Mrs S would likely have  been  given a copy  of the terms 
and conditions of the GAP  policy. The terms said it was a condition of the policy  that, before 
accepting a car insurance settlement,  the policy holder should contact the administrator  of 
the GAP insurance.  And I think the terms also made clear  that no claim would be paid where 
there was the option of a new car. 
As Ive already  noted, Amtrust wrote to Mrs S on 30 August 2018 to let her know  that 
declining a replacement  vehicle might affect her claim. And Amtrusts  further  letter of 
10 September asked  her to confirm what her car insurance policy said about a replacement. 
Ref: DRN23075163Theres a duty on customers  to read and understand the policies and agreements  they enter 
into. And overall  I think it would have been  reasonable  for Mrs S to have been aware of what 
her GAP policy did and didnt cover. 
I understand that Mrs S feels strongly  about whats happened, but I dont think I can fairly 
say that Amtrust have  done anything wrong.  So I wont  be upholding Mrs Ss complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint 
against Amtrust International Underwriters DAC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2307516