K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps unhappy with Legal & General Insurance Limiteds (L&G) decision to decline a claim 
for theft under his home insurance  policy.
  
background
In November 2017, Mr P visited an antique, jeweller  and gemologist dealer; Ill refer to them  
as A, at a local village hall. Mr P took a number of items of jewellery with him. 
Mr P says A looked at the items  hed taken,  took them off him and gave him £40 - which he 
says he didnt want to accept. But A had already started speaking to the next person waiting 
to see them.  Mr P believes  the jewellery  was worth around £7,500.
Mr P returned home and reported what had happened to the police. The police didnt take 
any action as they said no crime had taken place.  They said that although Mr P may not 
have felt that hed accepted the payment  of £40, by keeping the money and going home with 
it, hed taken this as payment for the jewellery.
Mr P disagreed and took A to the Small Claims Court. The case  was dismissed.
Following a conversation  with a friend,  Mr P made  a claim for theft under his home insurance 
policy. L&G looked  into the claim but declined  it. They said Mr P had been  deceived and as 
deception wasnt covered by his policy, there  hadnt  been an insured event.
Unhappy with this, Mr P referred  his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what had happened.  She thought that L&G had acted reasonably when declining 
the claim.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking L&G to take any further steps to resolve his complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
I want to be clear that within this decision,  Im only considering the actions taken by L&G and 
whether theyve acted  fairly when declining Mr Ps claim for theft. I need to consider whether 
what happened was covered by Mr Ps home insurance.
Mr Ps policy  covered him for the theft, accidental loss of or accidental damage to personal 
possessions whilst away from the home. L&G have provided a copy of the terms and 
conditions that were applicable to Mr P at the time of the incident. Under the general 
exclusions section it says:
7. Deception
Any loss or damage  caused by deception unless  the only deception is gaining entry to the 
home.
Ref: DRN21554092So items acquired through deception are excluded from cover under the policy.  And Mr P 
didnt accidentally lose them  they were handed  over to A by him. I think that on the 
evidence available, Mr P more likely than not accepted  the money he was given by A for the 
jewellery. He may think the items were worth more, but thats what he accepted at the time.
I appreciate that Mr P has said he didnt want to accept the money offered. But given that he 
then went on to leave   the village hall without  the jewellery, and that he didnt call the police 
until he got home that day, its my finding that was because  he accepted the sum in payment 
for the jewellery  at the relevant time. 
Mr P has said he didnt  call the police until he got home as there was no reception  on his 
mobile. But if I were to accept that this is what happened, Im still unsure why Mr P left the 
jewellery with A, especially considering he thought it was worth  substantially more  than the 
£40 hed been given.
I accept that Mr P feels like hes been robbed, but taking the above into account,  I cant 
conclude that L&G acted unreasonably  by saying that the jewellery wasnt  stolen from him, 
rather he was deceived  into accepting  less for it than he thinks it was worth.  As Mr Ps policy 
didnt cover him for deception,  I think L&G have acted reasonably when declining  his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint against Legal  & General Insurance  
Limited and I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2155409