K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc did not change  the address for 
statements on his business credit card causing him to pay more  interest.
background
Mr W opened a business credit card account  with NatWest in 2008. In March  2012 he 
cleared the then balance  leaving a small credit amount. From March 2014 the account was 
used again. And after June 2014  a direct  debit from Mr Ws business  current account was 
set up to make monthly minimum payments  to the card account. Mr W updated his address 
with NatWest in September 2014 but the address for his credit card statements was not 
changed. Direct debit  payments continued  to be made to the card account. In December 
2018 he noticed this and told NatWest  that he thought that this account had been  closed  and 
the balance cleared. NatWest paid him £75 as it found that his first name had been wrongly 
recorded at the time the account was opened.
Our investigator did not recommend that NatWest do anything  more. He said that there  was 
no evidence that the account  had been closed  as Mr W said. At the time Mr W moved he 
would have needed to contact the credit card department to change  the mailing address for 
that account separately. He thought that Mr W would have reasonably been aware of the 
monthly direct debit from his business  current account. There was an outstanding balance 
on the credit  card and Mr W was required to repay this. If Mr W did not recognise  the 
payments made with the credit  card then he would need to raise  a claim for fraud with 
NatWest first.
Mr W did not agree and wanted  his complaint to be reviewed. His representative has now 
written to NatWest questioning the transactions. And also highlighting that his mail has been 
going to the wrong address for years. Mr W had been charged  interest  for something  he had 
no recollection of.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the potential  for some confusion  here.  And in an email  to this service of 5 
August 2019 Mr W says:
I dont remember using the card [] after 2015/2016, I thought this was paid off in full and 
cancelled in and around the end of[.] 2014/2015 I do think we purchased  material on this 
card at one point by mistake due to the account  card and the [other card] being very alike.
Ive looked at the statements for this card. There was a credit balance  on the card from 
March 2012 which was partly used to cover an annual account  fee of £32 in January 2013. 
The card was not otherwise used and in January  2014 the next annual account  fee resulted  
in a debit balance and when this was not cleared a late payment charge. This was rectified 
with what was described as a loyalty  reward of £32 and a refund of the charge. A new card 
number ending in number 9906 was then given on the future statements. 
That card was used  for payments. An attempted direct debit for the minimum card payment 
required in May 2014  was returned  unpaid. As there  is no record  of this on Mr Ws business  
Ref: DRN21167962bank account  it seems that the mandate may have expired. Debit  card payments were  made  
to the credit  card account from the business current account in May and June 2014. And a 
monthly direct debit was taken from July 2014 and the card was further used.
Mr W moved and told a NatWest branch of his new address  on 9 September 2014. Im afraid 
that its process then did not mean  that his credit  card details would be updated at the same  
time. But the card was still being  used for a period after he moved and direct debit payments 
continued to be taken from the account.  Statements on the account should  have  been  
available until the date he moved.
Mr W noticed the direct debit payments again in December 2018. His concerns were  not 
allayed when he found that the first name for him on the account  was wrong. It seems that 
the direct  debit was cancelled  in December 2018.  As direct  debit payments were not being 
made a letter about  repayment were issued to the old address. Mr W has shown that the 
new occupier there had made him aware of this.
We dont have a role in saying  what  processes NatWest should follow. There  is no evidence 
that the account was closed. The specific transactions  have  not been disputed  in this 
complaint and so Mr W was fairly responsible  for repaying the balance. I know  he says he 
might have paid the balance  off more quickly had he known and avoided some of the 
interest. I understand  his position  but I dont find that was the result  of an error  with the 
address by NatWest.  It has paid him £75 for the incorrect  first name on the account  which  
seemed to instead have been the first word  of his business trading name. I dont have a 
basis to require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2116796