K820x#14complaint
Ms C says St Andrews  Insurance  plc (St Andrews) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms C bought the policy in 2004  sometime after taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for the 
PPI policy  through  the post some  months after her mortgage started. 
The policy provided  cover  for Ms C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £435.99 a month towards  Ms Cs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £24.42  a month.  
At the time,  Ms C was employed as a Recruitment Manager. She has told us she was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying her mortgage should  
she be unable to work. Ms C has not indicated she was entitled  to any redundancy pay from 
her employer to would only have received the statutory  required rate. Ms C has said she had 
medical conditions  at the time of the sale. 
St Andrews  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage  account closed in 2005.  
Ms Cs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Cs representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Cs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Ms C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms C and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN21504352The information Ms C received  was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in June 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching 
principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable 
to this complaint;  nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN21504353The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like St Andrews at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms 
Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so St 
Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Ms C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether St Andrews  gave Ms C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN21504354Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms C and St 
Andrews, Ive decided  not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms C know she had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
There is very little documentation  available from the time of the sale,  only Ms Cs 
recollections and the computer  records of St Andrews. The records  show that Ms C applied 
for her mortgage in 2003 and the credit started in September 2003. But the PPI was not 
applied for until June 2004  when  a mailing  was sent to Ms C about taking out PPI and what  
the benefits of this were. It seems Ms C returned  the application for the PPI in the post 
having received  this mailing.  
So as Ms C took out the PPI at a later time to her mortgage and she completed the 
application and returned this to St Andrewes, I think it was clear to her she had a choice 
about taking out the policy  as she didnt have to return  to application and apply for the PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely that Ms C knew the policy was optional  
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says that advice wasnt provided during this sale and Ms C has said nothing to 
disagree with this. Also as the policy application  was made following a mailing to Ms C no 
advice could have  been given at the time. 
This means  St Andrews didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Ms C. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Ms C was given a broad description  of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms C would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But there is little evidence from the time of sale to indicate whether  St Andrews gave  
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Ms C agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Ms C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing to her attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN21504355Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Cs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Cs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Cs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that St Andrews  ought to have  done either. 
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings have  on Ms C? To what extent did Ms C 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Ms C. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude she suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Ms C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had St Andrews done things properly. 
Ms C says she would  not have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Ms C had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Ms C chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Ms C thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Ms C has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Ms C knew she would have to pay something 
for the policy, I cannot be certain on the information  provided that St Andrews  told her the 
exact premium at the point she applied for the policy.  Having said that, it seems Ms C was 
Ref: DRN21504356told the cost before the policy started  based on the letter sent to her with the insurance 
certificate on 2 June 2004.  This set out specifically the exact  cost and benefit she had taken 
and the date the first premium would be taken.  And Ms C paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with her expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible she might  have  raised that with St Andrews  at the time or reconsidered her 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Ms C found  the cost unacceptable even if the exact figure was 
not provided with the information  she received before completing the application to take out 
the policy.
As I have already  indicated, I cannot be certain St Andrews made clear exactly  what  Ms C 
would get back  in return in the event she made  a successful  claim  at the point  she made her 
application. But I think its unlikely  Ms Cs expectations about  what the policy  would pay in 
the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet her mortgage payment) were significantly 
different to what the policy actually did  if anything, its more likely than not the policy 
actually paid more  in the event of a claim than she would have expected as there was an 
additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms C thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms C 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Ms C had to be 
unable to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Ms C pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good  as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms C from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Ms Cs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. Ms C was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Ms C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. 
Ms C was in permanent employment. The policy did not exclude pre-existing medical 
conditions, so although Ms C has said she did have two pre-existing conditions these were 
not excluded from claims.  So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN21504357I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Ms C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different financial circumstances 
to Ms C from taking out the policy, Ms C, in her circumstances,  still had some  good reasons 
to take it out.
If Ms C had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job which in the insurers view she might reasonably be qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Ms C that any claim she made would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but from 
what she has told us she didnt have  any other  means to fall back  on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Ms C would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Ms C be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms C would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close to what 
its likely  she thought  she was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help her manage the 
consequences if Ms C was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Ms C would have taken  out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Cs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms C would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Ms Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms C 
Ref: DRN21504358found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms C believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms C in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that she would  still have taken 
out the PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy 
she was buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Ms C compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms C thinks St Andrews  misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of St 
Andrewss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information St Andrews gave Ms C, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2004 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Cs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find St Andrews negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Ms C and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that St Andrews had been  in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms C in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Christine Fraser
Ref: DRN21504359ombudsman
Ref: DRN2150435