K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M bought the policy when she took out a loan for a property deposit in 1996. The loan 
included an amount to pay for the policy. The policy protected her repayments on the loan for 
up to twelve months if she became unemployed, and for up to the remaining term of the loan if 
she couldnt work because of an accident  or sickness. The policy  also provided her with life 
cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint,  Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold over 22 years  ago, so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs M nor Lloyds still 
have copies of the paperwork completed at the time.  I also have to take into account  that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I have  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities   that is, to decide 
what is most likely  to have happened. 
Lloyds has provided  a sample  loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more  likely than not Mrs M was asked to sign an agreement like this to 
get her loan funds.  On the loan agreement  there  is a section called Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection  and it has Yes and No boxes in that section to indicate  if cover was 
required. Mrs M ought to have understood that this was something she could say No to. So, 
I think its more likely than not Mrs M would have been aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI policy  and that she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs M, so it needed  to check that it was right for her. I think 
it was. Mrs M was eligible  for the policy and the main exclusions around employment and 
pre-existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. 
Mrs M has said that she had good sick pay from her employer  initially but it dropped  
significantly after six months.  And Mrs M told us she had no other means she could rely on 
in that eventuality, or if she lost her job. But the policy  provided  cover,  in addition, to any 
employer benefits  Mrs M wouldve had. And, potentially  it wouldve paid out for a lot longer 
than Mrs Ms sick pay would have paid out at her full rate of pay. I think  the policy was 
suitable for her circumstances  even taking into account her existing  benefits.   
Mrs M wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  the policy 
early. I dont  know if Lloyds thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs M. But I havent seen anything to suggest  at the time of 
Ref: DRN20103392the sale she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  wasnt 
right for her  or that better  information about  this wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest  which would be payable on the PPI policy  over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mrs M would still have bought it. Given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mrs M made a successful claim she couldve  got back  quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
I cant  be certain  that Lloyds provided full information to Mrs M. But for the same reason  that 
I think the policy  was suitable,  I dont think better information would have led Mrs M to avoid 
the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2010339