K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In February 2014  Mr E was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with VWFS. At the point  of supply the car was almost new and had covered approximately 
1000 miles.
In September  2018 the car broke down. It was recovered to the dealership where it was 
found to have lost all of its engine oil. The dealer  said the conrod and piston had failed. At 
this point the car had covered approximately 19,600 miles.
Mr E was advised that the estimated costs of repair would be £8000 for parts and £2000 for 
labour. The dealer and the manufacturer said they would pay most  of the repair  costs  as a 
gesture of goodwill, leaving Mr E with £518.26  to pay.
Mr E accepted this offer but he wasnt happy  because he didnt think the car shouldve 
suffered engine failure based on its age mileage  and service history. He wants VWFS to 
refund his repair costs  and his monthly  contractual payment which  he had to pay even 
though he was without the use of the car for 2 weeks whilst it was being repaired.
In its final response,  VWFS said that as the finance  company, it was responsible for the car 
at the point of supply  and any inherent faults  present at that time. It said that the issue  with 
Mr Es car happened 43 months after the point  of supply and hadnt been shown to be 
present at the point of supply and that the car was therefore of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said the engine of the car would be expected to 
last more than 19,600  miles unless it hadnt  been  properly  serviced  and maintained, which  
wasnt the case here. The investigator said it was more  likely that the engine  had an inherent 
fault and concluded that it wasnt durable. The investigator recommended that VWFS should 
refund Mr Es repair costs  together  with one monthly payment to compensate  him for the 
time he was without the car whilst it was being  repaired and the inconvenience  caused to 
him.
VWFS didnt  agree. It said the engine failed 43 months after the point of supply and that if 
there had been  an inherent fault it wouldve been  identified when the car was serviced. It 
also said it wasnt fair to ask it to refund Mr E because it hadnt had any involvement in the 
repairs and hadnt  asked Mr E to contribute to the repair costs.
my findings.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
brand new car, such as that supplied to Mr E, to be of a very high standard as compared  to a 
used car, where  I would expect to see a degree of wear and tear.
Ref: DRN24482252If a car isnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, its the responsibility of the finance 
provider to put things right. In this case Mr E and VWFS disagree about  whether the car was 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
In considering whether the car was of satisfactory  quality Ive taken into account the age and 
mileage of the car. Durability has been  a key factor in my considerations and in this respect  
Ive taken into account the type of component part which failed  and the life expectation of the 
component part.
Ive taken into account what VWFs has said about  the length of time which passed  before 
the engine failed. If I was looking at an issue relating to a serviceable component  part such 
as the brakes,  I would agree that an issue which arose approximately 3  years after the 
point of supply  would  be more likely to be due to wear  and tear. But an engine isnt the same 
as other  serviceable  component parts and would  be expected  to have a much higher degree  
of durability. When looking at durability  of an engine, the mileage covered and the service 
history are some of the key factors I take into account.
In this case, the car had covered 19,600 miles when the engine failed. I dont think  a 
reasonable person would expect an engine to fail at this level of mileage. A well maintained  
engine should  last for between 100,000   200,000  miles. Id only expect an engine to fail at 
less than 20,000 miles  if it had been poorly  maintained or if there was an inherent fault
Ive looked at the service history of Mr Es car and I can see that its been  serviced  as 
recommended by the manufacturer. I cant see anything  to suggest poor maintenance.
Ive taken into account what VWFS has said about  any inherent faults being apparent at 
service intervals. But I dont agree that this is necessarily  the case. It isnt always possible to 
identify inherent faults before they cause a problem.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its reasonable for an engine to fail after 19,600 
miles, particularly when the car has been  serviced  in line with the manufacturers  
recommendations. The specific parts of the engine which failed  the conrod and the piston 
 are parts which should last the lifetime of the engine. Because of this, I think its more likely 
that there  was an inherent defect with the engine at the point of supply, rendering  the car of 
unsatisfactory quality.
I appreciate that VWFS wasnt involved in the repairs to the engine.  However, because the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality, VWFS as the finance provider is responsible  for putting  
things right.
Mr E didnt have use of his car for 2 weeks whilst it was being repaired. He wasnt provided 
with a courtesy car during  this time and had to make  alternative travel arrangements.  I think  
VWFS is responsible for compensating Mr E for his loss of use, as well as the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered as a result.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  must:
Ref: DRN24482253Refund Mr Es repair costs of £518.26
Refund Mr E a sum equivalent  to one monthly  payment  to compensate  him for the 
time he was without use of the car and for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2448225