K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Target Servicing Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably when 
administering their equity  loan. They want matters put right.
background
Mr and Mrs W had an equity loan as part of the Help to Buy scheme and wanted to repay  it 
in full in 2017 by remortgaging.  They said that they paid the required fees and got a 
valuation. But during the process, they said that Target gave them incorrect information 
about the monthly interest payments and as a result Mr and Mrs W decided  not to proceed 
with the repayment. A few months  later, Target confirmed the correct amount of monthly 
payments.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Target.  It agreed  that its staff had given incorrect information 
and paid £50 compensation  for the trouble and upset caused.  Mr and Mrs W wanted  to 
restart the early repayment  process,  but without paying any fees and relying on the old 
valuation. Target  refused;  it said there  was a limited period on which redemption quotes 
could be relied  upon and Mr and Mrs Ws expired eight months ago. But it said the fees paid 
covered a yearlong period, but after that, they would need  to be paid again.
Mr and Mrs W complained to us, saying that their personal circumstances had changed in 
the meantime,  which  meant the repayment had to be delayed and they were having to pay 
the loan for longer than otherwise wouldve been the case  if Target hadnt given them the 
incorrect information. Target said that Mrs W was given the incorrect  information after she 
said that it wasnt possible to borrow enough  to fully repay the loan and the alternative 
options would require a new application. It didnt accept  that the reason Mr and Mrs W didnt 
repay the loan was due to its error and noted  Mrs W said she wanted to do another  option 
after being  told the incorrect information, but didnt take action in the end. 
Target did offer to waive its fee if repayment  went ahead, but said a new valuation was 
required due to the passage of time. Mrs W explained that shed incorrectly told Target  she 
couldnt afford to proceed with repayment as a new lender had been  willing  to lend to allow  
full repayment,  but she didnt go ahead  due to the incorrect information given by Target.  She 
also said that shed  carried out home improvements (despite being warned by Target  that 
this might increase  the value of the property and therefore the cost of the loan)  and wanted  
to rely on the old valuation.
The adjudicators view was that while Mrs W had said she couldnt afford to repay the loan 
before being given  the incorrect information, this wasnt  correct. She had a mortgage offer 
which appeared to be affordable. The adjudicator thought it was more likely  than not that 
Mr and Mrs W wouldve  gone ahead with the repayment if they hadnt been given incorrect 
information by Target. But she also noted that Mrs W chose not to proceed with the 
alternative option and reduce her interest  payments  the adjudicator  thought as a result it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to award the difference between  the interest paid and the 
amount quoted incorrectly. 
Ref: DRN25989312The adjudicator also said that the old valuation couldnt be relied upon as Mrs W had been 
warned that carrying  out home  improvements might  affect the propertys value  and shed 
gone ahead. But the adjudicator thought Target shouldnt  charge Mr and Mrs W for a new 
valuation or fees if Mr and Mrs W started the process again to repay the loan (to which it had 
already agreed).  She also said another £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
should be paid.
Target disagreed.  It was content to waive its fee and pay for a new valuation, but didnt think  
the increase in compensation was justified in the circumstances.  Mr and Mrs W agreed with 
the adjudicators  view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making a mistake,  but to put the consumer back into the position that they shouldve been in 
if the error  hadnt  happened (as far as thats possible).
Target accepts that it made a mistake  when telling Mrs W the incorrect  amount of the 
monthly interest payments. The issue I have to decide is how to fairly and reasonably 
resolve the matter.  Mr and Mrs W have accepted the adjudicators  view that their financial 
losses are limited due to their decisions not to go ahead with an alternative option and to 
improve their home, despite the potential effect  on the value of the property. This is because 
people should  try to reduce the effect  of any loss they face. I agree with the reasons set out 
by the adjudicator.
I also think, having reviewed the evidence available to me, that Mr and Mrs W wouldve gone 
ahead with the repayment if the incorrect information hadnt  been given. They  actually had a 
mortgage offer to do so. Mrs W doesnt  know why she said to Target (in a recorded call) that 
they couldnt afford it, other than their current lender wasnt an option. But as I explain 
above, due to the later actions by Mr and Mrs W, I dont think  its fair or reasonable for the 
difference in interest paid and the interest  quoted  to be repaid as it was legally due and 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  take action to reduce their potential loss. Im also aware that their 
personal circumstances changed which mightve significantly affected what  happened.
And I think its fair and reasonable  for Target to require a new valuation.  The old one is out of 
date and the property has been improved. But its fair and reasonable for Target to pay for 
the new valuation  and waive future  fees if another application to repay the loan is made. 
Target agrees.
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  by Targets error. I 
dont think £50 is enough. Mr and Mrs W have  been put to the inconvenience of complaining, 
they will have extra work to do to progress a new application, and have been caused worry 
and confusion. While money never truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered, in all 
the circumstances of this case, I think another £100  compensation would be fair and 
reasonable.
Ref: DRN25989313my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Target Servicing Limited should waive  its 
fee and pay the costs  of a new valuation for a future application to repay the loan early, and 
pay another £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs W for their trouble and upset. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject  
my decision  before 12 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2598931