K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy at the interest rate applied to his equity release loan, which  he took out in 
2011 on the advice of Key Retirement  Solutions  Limited (Key Retirement).  To resolve the 
complaint Mr S wants a reduction in the interest rate.
background
In October  2011 Mr S was given advice by Key Retirement about an equity release 
mortgage. Following  this he completed an application  for the product,  which  was submitted  
to a lender which  I will call L. The mortgage  with L completed on 7 December 2011. The 
initial drawdown was £21,300, with a maximum available loan of £48,000. I understand that 
since 2011 Mr S has drawn down  further  funds from L, and has now borrowed a total of 
£42,000.
In 2017 Mr S contacted Key Retirement to complain  about the mortgage. He was concerned  
at the interest  rate applied  to the mortgage, and how it had compounded  over the years 
since hed taken out the loan. Mr S also said that he would  not be able to repay the 
mortgage until ten years of the term had passed.
Key Retirement replied  to the complaint, explaining that at the point of sale it had explained 
all the relevant features of the mortgage  to Mr S. This included how interest  was applied. 
Key Retirement also explained that Mr S didnt  have to wait until ten years of the term had 
expired to repay the mortgage; he could repay  it at any time, albeit subject to any early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  which  L might be entitled to apply.
Unhappy with Keys  response, Mr S complained to us. An investigator looked  at the 
complaint but didnt  think it should  be upheld. Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says that he cant understand why a mortgage of £20,000 can mushroom over 
ten years. He questions why compound interest is used,  and that the figures are what  hed 
expect from loan sharks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have some 
bad news for Mr S  Im not upholding  the complaint.
I appreciate Mr S has wider  concerns  about  the equity release industry generally. But my 
role is to consider  individual consumer complaints against specific businesses arising out of 
a particular transaction. Here this complaint is against Key Retirement, in relation to the 
advice given to Mr S about an equity release mortgage.
Ive looked at the advice  given to Mr S in 2011.  From this I can see that Key Retirement 
explained fully how the mortgage  worked,  and provided an illustration showing how interest 
would be compounded over the term of the mortgage. The letter of advice and the mortgage 
illustration also set out clearly the circumstances in which  an ERC would apply within  the first 
ten years  from the date of any drawdown.
Once the mortgage completed, Key Retirement had no further involvement in it. Key 
Retirements role was limited to providing  Mr S with advice  about a suitable  mortgage 
product in the equity release market, and submitting the application to L. Key Retirement had 
Ref: DRN26430042no involvement in setting the interest  rate, or in the administration of the mortgage taken out 
with L.
Mr S took further drawdowns through L, and in total has borrowed £42,000 on his equity  
release mortgage.  With interest, this has now rolled up into a figure  which Mr S is unhappy  
about. But Key Retirement isnt responsible for the interest rate set by L, or how interest is 
applied to the loan. 
Im satisfied Key Retirement provided  Mr S with all the information  it was required to do in 
order to explain how the equity release mortgage  worked, before Mr S committed to taking 
out the loan with L.  If Mr S is unhappy  about the way his mortgage  has been administered  
by L, thats something hell need  to take up with that business.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  against Key Retirement Solutions Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2643004