K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the sale of their travel insurance policy by TICORP Limited. 
background
Mrs K bought a travel  insurance policy from TICORP over the phone, to provide cover for 
herself and Mr K. 
The policy was bought in April 2018 but cover didnt start until mid-May 2018,  which  was 
when Mr and Mrs K had planned to go on holiday.  Unfortunately, Mr K was diagnosed with a 
serious illness in between these dates and this meant Mr and Mrs K needed to cancel their 
trip.
Mr and Mrs K made a claim with their insurer, but the insurer said the claim wasnt  covered 
because the policy hadnt started  when they cancelled their trip. The insurer also said the 
claim wouldnt have been covered by the policy anyway, because Mr K had symptoms of the 
condition he was ultimately diagnosed with before the policy was purchased. 
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K complained to our service about both the declined  claim and the 
sale of the policy.  
Our investigator didnt  think TICORP had made  the consequences of post-dating  the policy 
start date on cancellation cover clear. She thought,  if TICORP had done this, Mr and Mrs K 
would have chosen for their policy to start immediately.  So, she recommended that TICORP 
should pay Mr and Mrs K compensation to the value of their claim. 
TICORP didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has already  considered  a separate  complaint brought  by 
Mr and Mrs K against their insurer. A final decision has been made about that matter, so I 
wont be addressing  anything to do with the insurers decision to decline the claim here.  Ill 
only be considering  what happened when the policy was sold. 
Holiday cancellation  cover works differently  under single trip and annual  multi-trip travel 
insurance policies.  Under  a single trip policy, cancellation cover starts on the day the policy  
is purchased. But, under an annual travel insurance  policy, cancellation cover starts  on the 
policy start date selected by the policyholder. 
In order for holiday cancellation cover  to start immediately under an annual  multi-trip policy, 
the policyholder  needs  to select the policy  start date as the date the policy  is purchased, and 
not the date they are due to travel.  
This is something many customers  buying  annual multi-trip travel insurance may not be 
aware of. So, Id expect  the seller of a policy to make it clear to the purchaser  at the point of 
sale that choosing  a later start date means there  is no holiday cancellation cover  in force  
until the policy start date is reached. 
Ref: DRN24365202Ive listened to the telephone calls between Mrs K and TICORP on the day the policy  was 
sold, to decide  whether  I think  TICORP made  the consequences of post-dating  the policy 
start date clear.
Mrs K contacted TICORP to say she wanted a travel  insurance quote for a holiday which  
had already been booked, and she mentioned the intended departure  date for this holiday 
was mid-May  2018. 
TICORP gave Mrs K various options  for single  trip cover.  Mrs K then asked about annual  
cover, as she said she and Mr K had another trip booked for later in the year.  So, TICORPs 
advisor gave Mrs K quotes  for an annual policy. A discussion  followed about the price 
difference between  buying two single trip policies or one annual insurance policy. 
Mrs K changed her mind  at various  points  during  this call about whether she wanted to buy a 
single trip policy  or an annual policy  following comments from the TICORP advisor  about  
price, but I think it was clear that Mrs Ks primary focus was ensuring cover for the May 2018 
trip. Mrs K also expressed concern  about getting  the best use from an annual policy and 
queried start and end dates. 
Towards the end of this first call, Mrs K said she wanted to go ahead and buy an annual  
policy. The advisor  asked  Mrs K if she wanted the policy to start in May 2018 and Mrs K was 
told cancellation cover  would start from this date as well. The purchase of the policy wasnt 
completed during  this call, as Mrs K said she would  need to get back  to TICORP.
TICORP telephoned Mrs K back twice that day and during the second of these  calls,  Mrs K 
said she would go ahead  with the annual policy. The advisor said the cover  would start in 
May 2018, and so would  the cancellation cover. Mrs K then proceeded to purchase the 
policy. 
Ive taken into account what TICORP has said about what Mrs K was told, and that its 
advisor received  no objection from her about  the policy start date. But, having listened  to the 
sales calls and having considered the surrounding circumstances, I dont think TICORP 
made it clear  to Mrs K that there would be no cancellation cover  in place for her upcoming  
holiday in May 2018  until the policy start date.
I think Mrs Ks priority in contacting TICORP for a quote was to cover the May 2018  holiday.  
When discussing the differences between single trip and annual  multi-trip cover,  the 
TICORP advisors main focus was the price  differences.  TICORPs advisor  didnt give Mrs K 
the option of starting the annual policy on the date of the call, and there appears to have  
been an assumption on the advisors part that Mrs K wanted the policy to start in May 2018. I 
dont think the advisor  clearly set out the difference in cover that would result from the 
annual policy starting on Mr and Mrs Ks intended  travel date rather than on the date of 
purchase. And, based on Mrs Ks comments about  the duration of an annual  policy,  I think it 
was clear she didnt  understand there  were  consequences to post-dating  the start date of the 
annual policy. 
TICORP has referred to the information  provided to Mr and Mrs K in their policy documents 
but what is relevant  here is the information Mrs K was provided with at the point of sale,  and 
not afterwards. 
Ref: DRN24365203If TICORP had made it clear to Mrs K that she and Mr K would have no cover  if they needed 
to cancel their May 2018 holiday,  then Im satisfied Mrs K would have  acted differently and 
chosen either a single trip policy or started the annual cover immediately. 
And Ive already made  a final decision  saying  I wasnt satisfied Mr and Mrs Ks insurer would 
have acted differently  if it had been aware  of additional details about Mr Ks medical history 
at the point of sale. So, I think its likely Mr and Mrs K would otherwise have had a valid 
claim were it not for the issue of the policy start date. 
This means  I think  Mr and Mrs K have lost out financially because of TICORPs failure  to 
give Mrs K clear information about holiday cancellation cover under the policy she was 
buying. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for TICORP to compensate Mr and Mrs K 
to the value of their loss. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
TICORP Limited must pay Mr and Mrs K compensation equivalent  to the amount of their 
cancellation claim. 
TICORP Limited is entitled to take into account any relevant  policy limits and/or excesses 
when calculating this compensation.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2436520