K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained TSB Bank plc wont refund transactions which he didnt make.
background
On 16 August 2018 Mr G contacted TSB as he was concerned  about  a number of 
transactions on his account which he felt were fraudulent. This fraud had all started after 
hed received a very large payment  into his account  at the end of July. He felt this may have 
been affected by TSBs well-reported  IT issues. He didnt believe theyd done anything to 
support him or stop transactions  being made.
In September  2018 Mr G closed his TSB account  and opened an account with another 
financial institution (who  Ill call N). He brought his complaint to the ombudsman service  
around the same time.
In February 2019  TSB offered Mr G £150  for the inconvenience.  
Mr G was concerned at the time it was taking to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included notes from a call Mr G had made to 
TSB on 2 August when his debit card had been blocked. TSB had been concerned about 
potentially fraudulent spend  but Mr G confirmed hed made the transactions in question.  TSB 
had offered to refund  other transactions which Mr G had disputed.  These totalled £338.07 
and our investigator agreed  thats  what TSB should  refund.
Mr G didnt agree. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here.  
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what TSB and Mr G have told us. TSB provided  us with statements  for 2017 and the 
whole of 2018 until Mr Gs account was closed  on 13 September  2018.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  view of 4 March 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything  
Ref: DRN29443022that was said there. I will, of course,  refer to those aspects which  form the basis  of my 
decision. I can reassure  Mr G and TSB Ive read the file thoroughly.  
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
TSB has provided us with a detailed transcript of the telephone conversation they 
had with Mr G on 2 August 2018 when he couldnt make a payment  for car 
insurance.
During the call TSB asked Mr G about  telemarketing transactions or similar  and 
quoted the amounts these  were   around  £65 each. Mr G clearly agrees he made  
these transactions  and even says there are probably  4 or 5 of them. As a result of 
this confirmation  TSB unblocked Mr Gs debit card.
Mr G has stated he was confused at the time of this call and doesnt believe he was 
really saying hed made all these. I note what he says but disagree.
Over  nine days Mr G carried  out 15 transactions with the same merchant. He agreed 
hed made five of these on 2 August, so I think its more than likely he made a further 
10 within the next eight days.
TSB has offered to refund all the other  disputed  transactions  Mr G complained about 
(apart from a separate car insurance  payment  which Mr G said he got back  from the 
provider). I think this is fair.
Mr G has also questioned why TSB only transferred £1 to the new account he 
opened with N. He felt that statements shared  with him for July and August 2018 
showed there was more  than £900 in his TSB account. Thats not the case. The full 
statement to the date Mr Gs account was closed  shows  there  was a pending card 
transaction for £29.99  which was paid on 12 September.  This was the day after TSB 
transferred £1 to N. The balance on 13 September was zero.
Overall I believe there were some  transactions which Mr G may well not have authorised. I 
can see TSB has agreed to refund those  to him. I believe thats a fair conclusion.
I cant see any evidence TSB has given Mr G compensation of £150  as promised in 
February 2019. So if they havent, they will also need to pay him this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  TSB Bank  plc to:
Refund £338.07 to Mr G for transactions he didnt authorise;
Add 8% simple interest to those transactions from the dates they were made until the 
date of settlement;  and
Pay Mr G £150 in compensation if this hasnt already been paid to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2944302