K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint against J P Morgan Europe Limited (JP Morgan) is that it wont  refund him 
for cash withdrawals from his account that he says he didnt make.
background
Mr M held a Post Office account, offered by JP Morgan. Into this he received his State 
Pension.
On 25 November 2016, Mr M was convicted of a criminal offence, and was taken  into 
custody, remaining in prison until 23 November 2018.
In December 2018, after his release, he contacted JP Morgan to say that while hed been in 
prison there  had been a series of four cash withdrawals  from his account that he didnt 
make. These totalled £1,527.89, and were made from December  2016  until March  2017. As 
Mr M couldnt have made these withdrawals himself, he said somebody  else must have 
accessed his card and account. So he asked for a refund.
JP Morgan  declined his claim. It did so on the basis that Mr M must have failed to keep his 
card and PIN number  secure, therefore breaching  his accounts terms and conditions.  And 
also that hed failed to notify it of his custodial sentence, which  he was obliged  to do, and 
which meant it wasnt able to take preventative  action to freeze  his account.
Mr M disagreed. He said he didnt make  the withdrawals, and nor did he allow  anyone else 
to do so. He explained that when he came out of prison he realised he didnt  have his Post 
Office card,  and also that a hand-delivered  envelope  had been  put through his door with a 
receipt for the first unauthorised withdrawal of £600 in December 2016,  with a note saying 
good luck. Mr M explained he didnt have many  friends or family, and didnt know who 
could have done this. Although he did recall discussing his PIN number with friends on a bus 
in around October  2016, and kept a note of it in his diary. 
Our Investigator  looked  carefully  at all the evidence, and obtained further information from 
both parties. He then concluded that on balance it seemed  more  likely that Mr M knew  and 
authorised somebody  to use his card and PIN, than that a third party  had obtained them and 
made the withdrawals  without his knowledge.  On this basis, he couldnt ask JP Morgan to 
issue a refund.
Mr M still disagreed, and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He didnt  offer any further  
evidence. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our investigator that we cant  uphold this complaint.  It 
wouldnt be fair to do so, because I dont think we can say that Mr M didnt know  about, or 
authorise, the withdrawals from his account.  
I know this decision will be hugely  disappointing for Mr M, and Id like to explain why Ive 
reached it. 
Ref: DRN21734742As our Investigators explained, generally speaking JP Morgan  is required  to refund any 
unauthorised payments  made from Mr Ms account,  and Mr M would be liable for any he was 
found to have authorised (consented to). Those rules are set out in the Payment Service 
Regulations (PSRs) 2009. 
Mr Ms said he didnt carry  out the transactions in dispute and can prove he was physically 
unable to. And Im satisfied that the evidence shows he was in custody and couldnt have 
made them himself.
So I now have to give my view on whether I think he authorised the transactions or not. In 
other words, did he allow somebody else to do so?
Mr M says he lost his card, and that he last recalls discussing his PIN number on a bus with 
friends in October  2016. However,  after this he himself  made his own withdrawal in 
November 2016,  and the first disputed transaction wasnt made until December 2016  a 
month later. This pattern doesnt suggest to me that its likely that from the conversations  on 
the bus in October, somebody was able to remember the PIN; intercept and obtain Mr Ms 
card before he went to prison; and waited another  month before using it with the PIN to 
make the withdrawal.
Mr Ms told us he also had a note of his PIN in his diary, but he took that into prison  with him. 
So theres no point  of compromise  there.
In addition, the general pattern of withdrawals isnt indicative of fraud. Generally, the way a 
fraudster operates  is to get as much  money as quickly as possible; both to avoid the source 
of the money  being cut-off, or of them being detected. In this scenario, the withdrawals took 
place from December to March, so were  not done in a hurry. 
I appreciate how Mr M feels about  this case,  but Im afraid the evidence  isnt in his favour, 
and Im persuaded that while he didnt himself  make the withdrawals, it looks likely that he 
allowed somebody else to do so. I havent  been  presented with a more plausible alternative.
For these reasons, I cant ask JP Morgan to refund  him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Ashley More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2173474