K820x#14complaint
Mr B is represented by his solicitor.  His complaint  about Advance  Investments  Limited  
(Advance) features the following main issues:
The allegation that fees were  incurred for unnecessary offshore investment 
wrappers. [issue 1]
Fees related  to a document forgery in November 2014. [issue  2]
Fees incurred in a particular transfer of investments in 2015. [issue  3]
The allegation that fees were  incurred for unclear reasons and/or unnecessary 
investment switches. [issue 4]
Mr B seeks  a total refund of fees amounting to around £1.6 million.
background
There is evidence/a schedule summarising  investment related fees,  across  Mr Bs overall 
portfolio, covering the period from 2008 to 2017. Complaint correspondence took place 
between the parties  in 2017 and the matter was referred to this service  in 2018. One of our 
adjudicators looked into it and did not consider it should be upheld.  He produced a detailed  
view which mainly said the following:
Mr Bs portfolio had a very high value and Advance invested  several  million  pounds 
on his behalf during  their relationship. Advance provided investment advice and 
executed investment  instructions. Their  relationship included his son and his 
personal assistant (PA). Mr B appears to have taken an arms-length approach  
within the relationship, whereby many or most of the engagements with Advance 
were delegated to his son and PA but he retained  the final decisions/instructions.
This services compensation award upper  limit  for successful complaints  does not 
cater for the total fees he seeks to recover.
Issue 1  the offshore  wrappers were not legally necessary for Mr Bs investments 
but they were  useful  for the organisation of Mr Bs complex  assets in the context of 
his complex tax arrangements.
Issue 2  the forgery matter has been investigated by Advance,  investigated by the 
police and referred to the regulator; Mr B took part in the investigations and was 
presented with evidence arising from them; the conclusion was that the matter was 
an isolated incident committed by a particular  member  of Advances staff who had 
been disciplined; no evidence was found  to support Mr Bs concern  that an earlier  
forgery had taken  place in February  2014;  the police has closed its investigation;  in 
this context this service is not in a position  to investigate further and Mr B can 
consider pursuing  legal action on the forgery matter if he remains dissatisfied  with the 
outcomes of the investigations; and with regards to the underlying fee issue  within 
the matter the correct  fee appears to have been  paid so there is no basis  for redress.
Issue 3  the relevant  transfer was prompted  by Mr B (and his son) and Advance 
concluding that they were unhappy  with the Novia investment platform and that his 
investments should be transferred to the Investec platform; and there  is evidence  that 
Mr B was made  aware  of the one-off  fee to be incurred for the transfer event.
Ref: DRN20922322Issue 4  given the size(s) and diversity of Mr Bs investments, and the charges 
associated with them, it would have been  helpful  for Advance  to have provided an 
annual statement of fees to him; but the absence of such a statement does not 
establish his case  for a refund of fees; overall,  the fees (percentages)  applied to his 
funds were broadly  in line with industry  fee levels  and were  not particularly  high; the 
cumulative substantial amount of those percentage based fees was reflective of the 
substantial size of the overall  portfolio.
Mr Bs solicitor  conveyed his disagreement  with this outcome, a request for an ombudsmans 
decision and, in the main,  said the following:
Issue 1  suitability (or otherwise) of the offshore wrappers should  be assessed 
separately from the matter of fees associated with them; in this respect Advance had 
the responsibility to review suitability of three offshore bonds (from 1998 and 1999) 
which were transferred to it, they were arguably  unsuitable, Advance did not identify 
this and it compounded the matter by recommending  the use of additional unsuitable 
offshore bonds  for UK tax purposes  despite  Mr B being  an offshore resident who was 
not subject to UK Income Tax (IT), capital gains tax (CGT) or Inheritance Tax 
(IHT); and it follows that if the offshore wrappers  were  unsuitable  then Mr B should 
be entitled to a refund of the fees associated with them (around 0.2% of offshore 
bonds worth around £10 million).
Issue 3  the transfer fees were discussed  with Mr Bs son, not with Mr B; Advance 
should have awaited  Mr Bs express agreement before  proceeding with the transfer  
(and application of the one-off 2% fee); instead, by the time Mr B signed the relevant 
fee schedule on 6 November 2015 the fee (£103,871) had previously been applied  
on 1 November 2015, so the fees were  not disclosed up front;  the transfer was not 
cost effective when  Advances fee and the new platform  charges were taken into 
account; and there  was no suitability assessment  for the transfer.
Issue 4  Mr B maintains that Advance has not given him clear and accurate 
information about all the fees he incurred; and the level of fees did not just reflect the 
substantial size/value of the investment assets,  it also reflected the high number of 
transaction recommendations made by Advance, some of which  were  unsuitable 
and/or not in Mr Bs best interests.
The above  points were shared with Advance. In response, it mainly said:  
The overall complaint  remained  one about  fees and the suggestion, related to issue  
1, about a separate matter of unsuitability is misleading because the redress sought  
by Mr B for that allegation remains a refund of fees; in terms of issues  1 and 4, all 
fees that were  associated with Mr Bs investments were  as agreed with him; in terms 
of suitability, five offshore  bonds were set up by Advance between December 2012  
and December 2015 (one in December 2012,  one in October  2013,  two in November 
2013 and one in December 2015); it is aware that they continued  to be in use after its 
service was terminated by Mr B in 2017 and up to 2019,  which  suggests  he 
continued to find them useful/suitable;  it reviewed suitability of the three offshore 
bonds which were  transferred  into its service and found them to be suitable; it took 
this view because usage of the offshore wrappers  provided Mr B more  certainty  on 
tax treatment in the context of changing  and sometimes retroactive tax laws (and 
especially as his tax residency had been  questioned by HMRC around the time) and 
they gave clear indications of tranches  of his investments; and Advance  did not 
Ref: DRN20922323benefit directly from the offshore bonds  as the relevant fees were paid to the bond 
providers (they were  around 0.01% per year, not the 0.2% per year claimed by Mr B). 
It notes that issue 2 no longer appears  to be in dispute. 
There is documented evidence that the transfer in issue 3 was well reasoned (in 
terms of dissatisfaction, shared with Mr Bs son, with the service from and 
performance within the Novia platform between 2014 and 2015), that its suitability 
(including fees) was assessed, that the Investec agreement was signed by Mr B on 6 
November 2015 and that the associated fees were paid afterwards on 16 November 
2015; so it is wrong for Mr Bs solicitor  to say the fees were paid before his 
agreement; and it believes the assets remained on the Investec platform  between 
2017 and 2019  (after  Mr Bs termination of its service),  which  suggests he continued 
to find the platform  useful/suitable.
With regards to issue 4, Advance  presented detailed explanations and information about its 
overall investment  planning work  for Mr B over the relevant period and featuring a total of 
around £33 million in assets, which it said clarified  Mr Bs queries about fees. The matter 
was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusions for reasons  broadly similar  to those  he gave. I address the issues  
as follows:
Issue 1
As requested by Mr Bs solicitor, I have  considered  the matters  of suitability and fees within  
this issue. However, and as argued by Advance, I consider that Mr Bs case  for both matters 
share the same aim  that is, to recover fees associated with the offshore wrappers.
In terms of suitability, I note the following:
Advance does  not appear  to say the offshore bonds were a requirement. Within its 
complaint related  communications  with Mr B it said it agreed  that  the wrapper can 
be done away with, it is not a legal  or regulatory necessity but that there were still 
advantages for him in having the offshore wrappers. In its submissions to this 
service, it said that during  the bond  recommendations between 2012 and 2015 it took 
the view, and retains the view, that the bonds  were useful for Mr B in meeting his 
request for separately identifiable  holdings  and in terms of anticipating potential  tax 
status problems  in the future.
Advance also says there was a benefit (or potential future benefit) to Mr B in using 
the bonds; that the potential future benefit was cost efficient in the context  of what his 
tax liability could  potentially have been  in the absence of the bonds (that is, the total 
cost of the bonds to him over five years was around £45,000 but he could have faced 
a total tax liability of around £1.125 million in their absence); that it was prompted to 
anticipate this potential tax liability by a degree of uncertainty  in this respect  at the 
time and the bonds aimed to give him more  certainty; that it was closely engaged 
with Mr Bs tax advisors and it paid them for specialist tax advice which  they provided 
Ref: DRN20922324in October 2011  and which made  reference  to HMRC questioning Mr Bs apparent 
ties to the UK at the time; that his previous use of offshore bonds (prior to those 
recommended by Advance) suggested he was familiar with their purpose and 
benefits; and that overall, its recommendations of the bonds were not unsuitable.
I consider that there could be more common ground between the parties than 
otherwise with regards  to suitability  of the offshore bonds. Mr Bs solicitor says they 
were unnecessary (given his offshore residency) and, in broad terms, Advance  
appears to agree  that they were not necessary.  This,  alone,  does not determine  the 
matter of suitability. Advances point  about the bonds being a cost efficient potential 
future benefit to Mr B is arguable and, on balance,  I am persuaded that it is a basis 
on which to conclude  that the recommendations were not unsuitable. 
Overall, available  evidence shows that prior to the downturn in the relationship 
between the parties (mainly in 2017) they were both engaged  in the relatively  
significant undertaking of investment planning  for very valuable investment portfolios. 
Advance did not cater for Mr Bs total invested wealth but it appears to have done  so 
for a sizeable part of it, with a total value of around  £33 million.  Mr B was important, 
as a client, to Advance and this is quite  evident  in its communications  with him. It is 
also evident, from the contents of those communications  and from relevant suitability 
assessment reports, that providing added  value within its service to him was 
something it sought to do during  its appointment  because of his importance to it. 
In this context and on balance, I am persuaded that in the course of recommending 
the bonds to Mr B, Advance  sincerely  anticipated the future tax uncertainty  it has 
described and considered  the bonds  to be a potential benefit  to him, especially as 
there was evidence that he was familiar  with them. This would also have applied to 
its view of the bonds he previously had and transferred-in. I accept that such 
sincerity, alone,  does not mean  the recommendations were not unsuitable. 
The aim of giving Mr B added  tax related protection in a cost efficient manner was 
not unreasonable. I have read the tax specialists report of 2011 and whilst it does 
not appear to have  been issued directly  within the course of the offshore bond 
recommendations (which  began in 2012) it does refer to Mr Bs offshore status  
having been questioned  by HMRC around the time. Advances decision to anticipate 
a possible tax problem  in the future was not unreasonable in this context. 
Advances present  argument about cost efficiency is partly influenced by hindsight  
especially in terms of comparing the costs of the bonds with their values (and 
potential tax liabilities) as they were  after five years from the first bond   but evidence 
of the costs and values at the times they were  set up does not suggest they were 
cost inefficient. A total of around £10 million was invested across the five bonds  and 
it appears that the average annual charge for each  bond  was around 0.2%. I 
appreciate that this was a cost Mr B was to incur  and I do not wish to be dismissive 
of this point or of an investors need  to manage or minimise  costs. However, given 
the value of the underlying assets, the potential  value of gains that could have been 
produced from those assets, the potential for a possible tax problem related to those 
gains in the future (and, in this respect, the potential tax liability  arising from such  
potential gains), I am not persuaded that the cost of such added protection was 
unreasonable. I do not suggest the protection was complete  but it was intended to be 
helpful if such future problems arose.
Ref: DRN20922325Overall and on balance, the recommendations appear to have been  made  in good 
faith, they were  based on an objective  that was not unreasonable given the possible 
future tax problem, they appear to have  been  reasonably cost efficient and they were 
not unfamiliar  to Mr B given that he had previous experience of using them.  I am not 
persuaded that they were unsuitable.  I am also not persuaded that the fees 
associated with them were unreasonable in the circumstances and evidence 
supports the conclusion that they were agreed  by Mr B.
Issue 2
Mr Bs solicitor  does not appear to have commented  on the adjudicators  finding  on this 
issue. Advance considers that the issue is no longer disputed,  but in the absence  of an 
express withdrawal of it (by Mr Bs solicitor) I will briefly address it.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusion  for the same reasons  he gave. The fraud matter  
appears to have been thoroughly investigated. This service is not in a position to match  the 
sort of fraud investigation the police  would have conducted or the enquiries that the regulator 
would have made after the matter  was referred to it. I also note that Advance has conducted  
its own investigation and that the person responsible  has been disciplined. 
With regards to the fees arising from this issue, the forgery does  not appear to have altered 
the fee that was agreed with Mr B. I accept that it breached Mr Bs trust and in that respect I 
can understand if he remains aggrieved by it, but the forgerys  objective  does not appear  to 
have related to altering the fees he agreed. Evidence suggests that it related mainly to the 
arrangement between Advance and a third party investment manager for the splitting, 
between them, of the agreed  ongoing fee. As the adjudicator said,  there does  not appear to 
be ground for a refund of fees to Mr B in this matter.
Issue 3
Documents shared with this service  support  Advances assertion that suitability of the 
investment transfer  in 2015 was assessed and documented. I have considered  the suitability 
report. It says the objective for the transfer  to the Investec platform was to address Mr Bs 
dissatisfaction with the performance and service from the Novia  platform; that a dealing 
charge (per trade) waiver  had been  negotiated for him in the new platform;  that he agreed 
with the idea of the transfer; that Investecs credentials (which it summarised) were 
appealing and that its recommendation of Investec well-reasoned  (ranging from flexibility 
and diversification  available  from the platform to its competitive charges and Advances 
experience of excellent service from Investec (for itself and its clients)  in the past).  
The report  also gave information about Investecs tiered annual management charge, which  
ranged from 0.80% (plus  VAT) to 0.40% (plus VAT) and Advances one-off  advice  fee of 2%. 
The fee agreement  related to the latter appears  to have been signed by Mr B on 
6 November 2015 and the fee appears to have been  paid thereafter. Overall and on 
balance, I do not consider  that there is ground  for a refund of fees to Mr B in this matter.
Issue 4
To avoid  breaching confidentiality attached to the details of Mr Bs portfolios and invested 
assets, I have neither  reproduced nor featured  the details of the information about  fees I 
mentioned around  the beginning of this decision.  Advance shared this information  with us to 
provide transparency in the course  of our consideration of issue 4  given that it is an issue 
Ref: DRN20922326that relates to its overall work for Mr B (and his portfolios) and the fees associated with that 
work. I have  considered  the information  and I regard it to be reliable. The overall  picture that 
emerges is one of reasonably active investment planning, including the type of succession  of 
investment transactions over time that can be expected  to result from that and including  the 
generation of fees that can be expected to arise  from such transactions and planning.
There is also evidence that Advances  investment planning relationship with Mr B (and his 
son) was broadly  based on a routine, within which associated fees appear to have been 
prominently brought to his and his sons attention. I summarise conclusions, reached  on 
balance, from available  evidence  as follows:
As the adjudicator noted, Mr Bs son played  a notable role in engagements with 
Advance and in bridging some communications  between it and Mr B, however Mr B 
retained control over the final investment decisions and instructions.
The presence of Mr Bs son in investment related meetings and discussions appears 
to have given  him the opportunity to report discussions  back  to Mr B, which was 
coupled with investment related documentation  that would be sent to Mr B after such  
discussions. Action towards  executing any investments began after Mr Bs 
consideration of the documentation  and return of his express  and signed approval(s).
Within the investment  approval process fees related to Advances  service, to the 
investment managers  service and to the bond  providers  service would be disclosed 
to Mr B. Copies of the different  suitability reports issued  to Mr B during the relevant 
period shows that Advance disclosed this information in reasonable detail under the 
costs and charges  related section(s) of the reports. There  is also evidence which 
suggests that welcome letters from the investment manager(s) to Mr B would provide 
information that was broadly similar. In the course of the relevant investment  the 
bond provider  appears to have  issued periodic reports in which some fee 
payment/deduction related information was provided.
In the above context, I am persuaded by Advances submission that relevant fees were  
transparent to, considered by and agreed by Mr B. With regards to the allegation or 
suggestion that it conducted  unnecessary investment switches in general, Advance  
summarised the following to us:
Between 2011 and 2016 it recommended only three switches of pre-existing 
investments.
One was prompted,  in 2013, by the departure of an individual  investment manager 
(and his team) from a firm that had managed Mr Bs familys  portfolio  since 2007. The 
investment manager and his team established a new firm and Mr Bs family sought  to 
continue the previous  relationship so they moved their portfolio to the new firm in 
2013. A transfer  happened in this respect and Advance applied  no charges for it.
Another transfer was prompted by a high value  US Dollar  (USD)  cash reserve  in a 
portfolio which  was initially awaiting a currency switch to Sterling before Mr B and his 
son decided to retain it in USD.  The firm that held the portfolio did not cater for USD 
holdings so it was transferred  to one that did. Associated fees were transparent to 
and agreed by Mr B.
Ref: DRN20922327The switch from the Novia  platform to the Investec platform  was the third transfer   
which it has already  addressed in relation to issue 3.
Beyond the above, fresh funds were  often generated from many asset liquidations by 
Mr B, and then reinvested. In 2015,  for example, out of eight major investments 
seven involved new funds  generated in this manner. Associated  fees were always  
transparent to and agreed by Mr B. They were  also consistent  with industry fee levels  
at the time.
I am persuaded by the above submissions and, based on available  evidence,  they appear to 
be reliable. They support the overall  picture I mentioned above  one in which,  in broad 
terms, a succession  of high value investments over time were  reflected in the level of agreed 
fees (which do not appear to have been notably  inconsistent with wider industry fee levels  at 
the time) generated and earned by Advance. On balance, I do not consider that there is 
sufficient evidence to support  issue  4.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 26 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092232