K820x#14complaint 
Mrs H on behalf of Mrs W has made a complaint about the level of death benefits Phoenix 
Life Limited is proposing  to pay in respect of the late Mr Ws pension. She says that the 
value of the pension is much  greater than the sum Phoenix is intending  to pay and it should 
pay out the pension value.
background
In 1977 the late Mr W started paying £10 per month into a Phoenix Life Retirement Annuity  
Contract Pension. He ceased contributions in 1996.
The approximate pension fund value  when Mr W passed away  was £58,000 but Phoenix Life 
quoted Mrs W an amount of about £10,000 in August 2017,  as the value of the pension to be 
paid to her as a death benefit.
The difference in the two values was queried with Phoenix. It confirmed that the lower value 
was in line with the terms and conditions  setting out what would be paid in the event of death  
before the benefit date. A complaint was subsequently made  but not upheld for the same  
reason.
There were some additional administrative and service errors experienced during  this time 
by Mrs W which led Phoenix to offer her a one off payment of £250 in addition to the death  
claim value.  
This case was subsequently referred to this service and after some  investigations the 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  for the following reasons:  
A copy of the policy schedule was obtained from Phoenix and the wording clearly 
stated that on the death of the policy holder  prior to the benefits being  taken,  the 
benefit payable  from the policy would be the total contributions  paid plus interest at 
5% per annum compounded.
The pension is a Retirement Annuity  Contract and this type of death  benefit 
calculation was standard for these types of pensions.
The pension packs sent to the late Mr W in the lead up to his retirement age didnt 
stipulate what the death benefits would be because the purpose of these packs is to 
inform policyholders what options they have to draw benefits from the pension.
The adjudicators view was that the offer of £250  for the administrative errors was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. However, Mrs W didnt agree and so the 
complaint was referred to me for review.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The principal  terms of the policy are set out in the pension policy Schedule.  Although certain  
parts of the policy schedule are difficult or impossible to read what  is reasonably clear is 
Ref: DRN20659472paragraph 2 of the three paragraphs in the main section of page one. This paragraph  sets 
out that:
in the event  of the death of the Annuitant before the Benefit Date  .. the Company will pay 
 an amount equal to the total of all premiums paid to the Company in respect of the Policy 
with compound interest at a rate of 5% per annum by yearly  rests.
So this sets out that the premiums paid the policy will be returned  plus interest in the event 
of death before benefits are taken.  The policy terms are not that the full value of the policy 
will be supplied.  I do note that the late Mr W did not take his benefits at the original benefit 
date. But if that occurs the benefit  date is carried forward  by five years. Whilst I can 
understand the view that the original  benefit  date has passed and so this term does not 
apply, I believe the approach taken  by Phoenix  is consistent with what  is contained in the 
original terms.  There  is no acknowledgement in the terms that after age 65 the payment will 
default to the value  of the pension.   
I can appreciate that Mrs W may believe  it is unfair that Phoenix does not pay the value of 
the pension itself but the terms of the plan do not provide for that and the basis on which  the 
policy was taken out by the late Mr W are stated on the Schedule.  Phoenix  did not change 
the death benefit figure, the values set out on Phoenix retirement documents are the values 
that are applicable  when  taking benefits  such as buying an annuity or converting  the 
pension to a cash  lump sum. But that does not apply to death  benefits  which are, as 
discussed, calculated  in a different way. As the retirement  documents  are in relation to 
taking benefits,  I do not believe  they necessarily have to set out the death benefits  at the 
same time. 
I note that Mrs W believes  that Phoenix should have contacted the late Mr W regarding  
making a claim when he fell ill. However  I have not seen evidence that Phoenix was told the 
late Mr W was ill and in any event I do not believe Phoenix had a duty to advise him to take 
benefits if he was ill. Phoenix was not the late Mr Ws financial adviser.
I have considered the errors that were made by Phoenix regarding issuing documents and 
responding to the complaint. I do think a payment is warranted for the distress and upset this 
would have caused but believe that the £250  already offered by Phoenix is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this compliant or make  any award.
If the £250 has not yet been paid then Mrs W or Mrs H can contact Phoenix direct  if Mrs W 
wishes to accept that. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019
David Bird 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065947