K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002. Ms C 
says Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms C didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. The application 
form Ms C signed showed she had a choice. And although  the cross in the box for 
PPI is electronically populated  I think  this happened as a result of a conversation  she 
had with a BoS adviser.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms C so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  
and she seems to have had a need  for the cover  because  its likely any sick pay she 
did have wouldnt have  covered  her for as long as the PPI potentially wouldve done. 
And she didnt have any other independent means  to pay her credit card if she 
couldnt work. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. I 
also havent seen  any evidence to suggest that it was unaffordable  for Ms C. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said - including  what  she has said about not knowing 
she had the PPI and that it was added without her consent, but these points dont change 
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Ms 
C paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms C back some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Ms C now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN23146882my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314688