K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 1996 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.   
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs B in respect of accident,  sickness,  and 
unemployment, subject  to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to £350 per 
month a month towards Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage balance in the event  of a successful claim. 
They were  covered for 50% each,  so if one of them had been unable to work, the policy  
would have paid £175 per month towards  their mortgage balance.  At the time, it cost £17.43 
a month. 
When PPI was sold, Mr B worked  in administration for a government agency.  He  told us he 
was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay if he was off sick from work.  Mr B 
was also entitled  to redundancy pay and death in service benefit. I understand that he was in 
good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs B also worked in administration for a government agency. She told us she was entitled 
to six months full pay and six months  half pay if she couldnt work  because of illness. She 
said she was also entitled to redundancy pay and death in service benefit. I understand that 
at the time of the sale, Mrs B had been diagnosed with mild asthma, for which she was 
prescribed a Ventolin  inhaler.  
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account was still running in 2017,  
after it became regulated  in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN26836252The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs B arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN26836253Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN26836254-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
It was not specifically argued on behalf of Mr and Mrs B that the cover was not presented  as 
optional. But for the avoidance of doubt,  I find that PPI was presented as a separate product. 
I can see from the papers  that Mr and Mrs B had disclosed  Mrs Bs medical  condition  to the 
insurers at the point of sale.  Following that disclosure, the application for PPI doesnt appear  
to have been accepted  until after the mortgage started. I can see that the mortgage account 
was opened in January 1997, but the insurer didnt accept the PPI application until February 
1997. With that in mind,  I dont think Mr and Mrs B would have thought they had no choice 
but to take PPI if their application  hadnt  been accepted  until after the mortgage  started.     
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Both Halifax and Mr and Mrs B agree that advice was provided  during this sale.  
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  some  questions were asked 
to establish whether Mr and Mrs B had a need  for the policy  such as about their health and 
employment status  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. For example, 
I cant see that Halifax enquired about Mr and Mrs Bs existing means in the event they were 
out of work. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN26836255-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time.  I appreciate  they had some sick 
pay, but the PPI would have paid out for longer  than their full pay. And they didnt 
have any other  means of making their repayments  if they did become unwell. I also 
appreciate they would have had some redundancy pay, but I dont think  that payment 
would have been the equivalent of a years  salary  which is how long they could 
have claimed for on their PPI policy.   
- Although Mr and Mrs B say they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mr B was in good health when the cover was 
sold. As I said above, Mrs B had mild asthma for which she was treated with an 
inhaler. I appreciate it may have  been more difficult for her to make a claim in respect  
of asthma. But those representing  Mr and Mrs B told us that she had not taken any 
time off work for this condition. And I can see from the PPI questionnaire  that Mr and 
Mrs B initially told us neither of them had any medical problems at the time of the 
sale. With that in mind, I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have  thought Mrs B 
would be likely  to make  a claim  for asthma.  
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances.
-I appreciate Mr and Mrs B told us that they were both entitled  to death in service 
benefit. But that would have only paid out in the unfortunate event  of their deaths. It 
covered a different eventuality to PPI. They wouldnt have been able to claim death in 
service benefit if they lost their jobs or if they were unwell for a while. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN26836256Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Bs. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had Halifax  done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B has suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN26836257Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. 
I can see that the cost of the cover was clearly set out on the PPI application  form. So I think  
its most  likely that Mr and Mrs B knew how much  the PPI would cost when they bought  that 
cover. But I cant say the information about other  aspects of the policy,  such as the benefits, 
limitations and exclusions  was as clear  as it should  have been.   
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs B would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, injury  or condition that 
they had received advice, treatment or counselling  about  from a doctor during the 
period of 12 months before  the start date and which recurred within  24 months  of the 
start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs B werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
Ref: DRN26836258some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But as I said above,  the evidence about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable for them.  They were eligible 
for its benefits and it provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions,  could have 
proved valuable to them  should  the insured risks have become a reality. Although I 
appreciate Mrs B had a medical condition when  the PPI was taken out, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. As I said,  Mrs B 
described her medical condition as mild and she hadnt taken any time off work because of 
it. The evidence before me doesnt  suggest  her condition regularly affected  her day to day 
life and so I dont think she would have reasonably thought shed  need  to take time off work  
because of mild asthma.  
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  they would have been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs B might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were not only unable to 
do their jobs or any similar job but also unable to do any job which  in the insurers view they 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given their 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs B would have received full sick pay for 
and their statutory  redundancy entitlement would have been  less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk if they were unable to meet their mortgage repayments. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs B were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN26836259Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B thinks Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN268362510and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2021.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683625