K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Harvey & Thompson Limited  (H&T) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about eleven instalment loans that H&T provided  to Mrs B from 
August 2010 onwards. Mrs Bs last loan was provided in December 2016.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Bs complaint and thought that she shouldnt have been provided  
with loans 5 to 11. H&T didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So the complaint 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of H&Ts lending history with Mrs B, I think that H&T should 
reasonably have seen that Mrs B was unlikely  to have been  able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan 5. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mrs B had exhibited a pattern of taking out new loans 
shortly after or at the time of repaying previous ones. Ive also seen that some  of the loans  
such as loans two and three  were even provided  while outstanding balances  remained on 
Ref: DRN21025242previous ones. This pattern  of borrowing was indicative of Mrs Bs loans having become 
unsustainable for her. This pattern  went on to continue over an extended number of loans 
and over a period of six years. And taking  all of this together,  Im not persuaded that it was 
fair and reasonable for H&T to have provided  Mrs B with these loans in these circumstances.
Mrs B had to pay interest and charges on loans that H&T shouldnt  have provided her with. 
So I think that she lost out and H&T should  put things right.
putting things right  what H&T needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans 5 to 11 including  any that may 
have been paid to any third party  debt purchaser;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loans  5 to 11 should be removed from Mrs Bs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires H&T to take off tax from this interest. H&T must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. Harvey  & Thompson 
Limited should pay Mrs B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2102524