K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Everyday Lending Limited  (EDL)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in January 2021 that I summarise below.
Mr W was given a loan of £2,000 by EDL in May 2017. This was due to be repaid in 24
monthly instalments  of around £169.  The total amount payable, including  interest, was just
over £4,071.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
EDL needed  to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
I said that EDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr W 
irresponsibly. And that EDL had to carry out proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that he 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable way. 
I carefully considered  all the evidence, arguments and information Id seen about  this
matter in order to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
EDL carried  out some  checks before it lent to Mr W. This included asking for details of his
income, carrying out some credit  checks and requesting a payslip and bank statements. EDL
assessed Mr Ws regular living expenses and his monthly credit  commitments.
Id seen a summary  of the information gathered  by EDL, including  the credit report and
bank statements Mr W provided to EDL at the time.  I thought the checks that EDL carried 
out before  lending  to Mr W were  reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
The credit report acquired by EDL showed  Mr W had two live loans with a total balance
outstanding of £832 and two revolving accounts with an outstanding balance  of £410. There
was very little adverse information  on his credit report. From what Id seen, it appears that
Mr W told EDL he intended  to consolidate  at least some of his outstanding  debt with his EDL
loan. Mr Ws bank statements for March  and April are not very clear and I could see that he
was sometimes overdrawn. But there  doesnt  appear to be signs  of significant financial
distress, such as regular  gambling or high levels of bank charges  or frequently  returned
requests for payment,  all of which might  have signalled severe financial difficulties to EDL.
Mr W provided his own credit report to us. Our adjudicator thought  that EDL ought  to
have carried out more in-depth checks and that had it done so, it would have gained  a
broader picture of Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time and decided not to lend to him.
However, generally, the information a consumer  might  see, when they request a copy of
their credit file might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might  only see a
portion of the credit file, or some data might  be missing or anonymised,  or the data might not
be up to date. From what Id seen from the credit report  that Mr W provided,  he had
taken out some additional short-term lending very shortly before his application to EDL.  But
new credit  commitments  can take some time to appear on a credit  report  and so dont
always appear in any reasonable  and proportionate  checks that are carried out at the time.
So, this may explain  any differences between the information  provided by EDLs credit  check
and the information Mr W says it should have  seen.
Ref: DRN29707912I considered whether the information  that EDL did gather  should  reasonably  have led it to
decline Mr Ws application. Mr W had borrowed  from short term lenders in the months before
he applied  to EDL. But it seems  to me that EDL considered Mr Ws credit  commitments,
including his apparently low level of indebtedness, his bank statements and what  Mr W said
were his plans to use EDLs loan to consolidate some of his borrowing. 
On balance and given what was known about  the level of Mr Ws indebtedness  overall,  I 
didnt think Mr Ws borrowing  from other  lenders had reached  such  a point that it ought to 
have led EDL to decline  his loan application. Taking things as a whole,  I didnt think  there 
was anything which should have caused  EDL any additional concerns about  Mr Ws financial
position when  he applied for the loan. Or that should  have led the lender to reasonably
conclude that lending to Mr W would be unfair  or irresponsible in some  way.
Did EDL treat Mr W unfairly in some  other  way?
EDL agreed to reduce Mr Ws monthly repayments when he had difficulties  repaying  his loan
after a road accident led to him being off work  on sick leave. EDLs  customer  contact notes 
had marked Mr Ws file as being  a vulnerable customer at that point. I understood that Mr W 
isnt happy about the service he says he received from EDL and I am sorry that he found 
himself in difficult circumstances. But I think that EDL did try to respond to his change in 
circumstances. Overall,  I hadnt seen anything which  made me think that EDL treated Mr W 
unfairly in some other  way. 
I said that if Mr Ws loan is still outstanding, I expected EDL to be mindful of its obligation to 
treat him positively  and sympathetically and to try to arrange a repayment plan that is 
affordable for Mr W. But I said I was not intending to uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they would like me to consider. I havent  
seen any new evidence  from either Mr W or his representative or from EDL.  The deadline for 
further comments has now passed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter.
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. 
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision. But I would like to reassure him I have 
carefully considered  everything that both he and EDL have told us and all the evidence  that 
has been provided. Having done so, I do not uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Everyday Lending  Limited.
Ref: DRN29707913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2970791