K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him Platinum and Premier 
packaged bank  accounts. 
background
Mr As account history is as follows:
Opened as a fee Free young  persons  account  10 December 2002
Changed to a fee-free Classic account  14 January 2005
Upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account  14 August 2006
Upgraded to a fee-paying Premier account   3 March 2012
Closed 8 December  2016
Lloyds said that our service was unable to consider Mr As complaint about the sale of the 
Premier account because  Mr A had complained too late about  it. One of our adjudicators 
considered what  Lloyds and Mr A had said and they agreed that Mr A had complained too 
late about it. Mr A did not disagree with the adjudicators findings, so the complaint was then 
passed to another adjudicator to assess whether the Platinum account  had been  mis-sold.
The adjudicator concluded that the Platinum account had not been mis-sold.  Mr A disagreed 
with this and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision on his complaint.
As an adjudicator has already established  that Mr A complained too late about the Premier 
account and Mr A did not disagree with their findings, this decision will only address whether 
the Platinum account had been mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we deal with complaints about  packaged  bank accounts  on our 
website and Ive taken this into account when considering this complaint.
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Mr A, but after giving this case  a lot of 
thought, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  I will explain my reasons why.
Mr A says that he felt pushed into agreeing  to the Platinum account  and felt vulnerable  as 
packaged accounts were new to him at the time. Mr A says he felt embarrassed to say no to 
the account being offered  to him. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr A has said, but Ive also considered  that when the Platinum 
account was sold to him, hed held a fee-free  account with Lloyds for a number of years by 
that point. So I think that Mr A was aware  fee-free  accounts were  available  and that he could 
continue with his existing fee-free account if he wanted to. And based on what Mr A has 
said, on balance it seems  likely that he agreed  to the Platinum account  because he was 
persuaded into agreeing to it by Lloyds.  And it also seems more  likely that he agreed to it 
because he felt uncomfortable saying no, rather than because  Lloyds was being 
unreasonable or aggressive in getting  him to upgrade his account. 
Ref: DRN22100302So overall, Im not persuaded that Lloyds coerced or pressured Mr A into agreeing to 
upgrade his account to a Platinum account.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mr A. This means it had to make sure the account was 
a good fit for Mr As circumstances at the time.  
At the time the Platinum  account cost £15 per month  and provided worldwide travel  
insurance (with the option to choose either  family cover or winter  sports  cover),  breakdown  
cover (including enhanced features  such as Relay and Home Start),  mobile  phone  insurance 
and card protection cover. It also provided a £250  interest free overdraft facility and a 
reduced overdraft interest rate on balances overdrawn by more than £250, amongst other 
benefits. 
At the time Mr A drove  and says he travelled worldwide and went  on winter  sports  holidays. 
So Mr A wouldve been able to make use of the travel insurance and breakdown cover 
provided by the account. And although Mr A may not have needed  all of the account 
benefits, it was sold as a package  so Mr A could not pick and choose  what it came with. 
Therefore, although  Mr A may not have needed everything it came  with, given that Mr A was 
able to benefit from both of the travel insurance and breakdown down  cover   and the 
Platinum account  was the cheapest account to include both of these benefits  on the whole  
I dont think Lloyds recommendation  was unreasonable in the circumstances.     
As well as making sure the account  was right for Mr A, Lloyds also had to make sure that it 
gave Mr A the important  information about the account so that he could make  an informed 
decision whether  to agree to it.
Mr A says that the Platinum account was presented  as though it included comprehensive, 
rather than basic, breakdown cover. But the breakdown cover provided  with the Platinum 
account did provide  more  than just basic breakdown cover.  It also provided Relay,  Home  
Start and Accident  Management cover as well. So, going on what Mr A has said, I think the 
enhanced features were explained  to him during the sale. And I can see that he went on to 
claim on the breakdown  cover (including  the Home Start cover) a number  of times. So I think  
Mr A was given at least enough  information to know how to use it.
Mr A says that he went on regular winter  sports trips, so says the travel insurance was 
something he could  not use. But as set out above,  the travel insurance  did include the option 
for Mr A to choose winter sports cover (without  paying anything extra).  The notes that were 
made by the member  of staff at the time, say that the Platinum account was recommended 
to Mr A for the travel  insurance  in particular. And I can see transactions on Mr As bank 
statements that suggest Mr A travelled to America  a few months after the Platinum account 
was sold to him. I can also see that Mr A went on to call the travel insurance helpline  to 
query the cover and later made a claim.  So again I think  Mr A was given enough  information  
to know how to use it and who to call if he wanted to check  his cover.
Ref: DRN22100303Turning to the mobile phone insurance,  Mr A says that Lloyds didnt make it clear  that claims 
could be settled with refurbished handsets rather than brand new handsets.  However, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect Lloyds  to have drawn  this particular term to Mr As attention as 
Lloyds was only required to have drawn any significant or unusual terms to Mr As attention 
during the sale of the account.  And this was not a particularly significant or unusual term as it 
was fairly  common in mobile phone insurance policies at the time. But even  if it had drawn 
that particular  term of the policy to Mr As attention, Im not persuaded that this would 
necessarily have put Mr A off of agreeing to the account. This is because  it appears that he 
was primarily  interested in the travel insurance  and breakdown cover benefits  that it 
provided.
Mr A has said that he was regularly overdrawn by more than the preferential overdraft rate 
and so feels the preferential overdraft interest  rate hadnt benefited him. But looking at his 
bank statements around the time the account was sold to him, it looks  to be quite the 
opposite of what he has said. Mr A was rarely overdrawn. But even if he was heavily 
overdrawn, as explained above,  Mr A could not pick and choose  what the account came 
with. So not receiving much of a benefit from the overdraft features  on the Platinum account 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that the account  was therefore mis-sold.
So having  carefully considered everything  that Mr A has said and weighed this up with all of 
the other evidence that is available, on balance I dont think that the Platinum account was 
mis-sold. I appreciate that with the benefit of hindsight,  Mr A may now feel that agreeing to 
the Platinum account has been  poor value for money, but that doesnt mean that it was 
wrong or unreasonable for Lloyds to have  sold it to him at the time.
I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr A, but I hope I have been able to 
explain the reasons  why I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think the Platinum account was mis-sold.  I 
therefore do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210030