K822xComplaint
Ms M complains that Virgin  Money  plc didnt  allow  her to make additional payments to her 
credit card while her account was blocked  pending a review. She says this caused  her to 
pay additional interest.
Background 
In December 2017, Virgin blocked  Ms Ms credit card account while  they carried out a review 
on the account. As part of the review,  Virgin asked Ms M for identification and other  
documentation. Ms M provided Virgin with the required documentation, however they werent 
satisfied with it for the purpose of their review. So, the account remained blocked.
In August  2018,  while the blocks were still in place, the promotional interest rate on Ms Ms 
credit card ended. During this time, the minimum monthly payment was collected  from Ms 
Ms current  account. Ms M contacted  Virgin on several occasions and asked to pay the 
balance due to the interest she was being  charged.  Ms M didnt receive online or paper 
statements due to the account  block, so she wasnt aware of the total balance on the card.
Ms M paid the full balance in November 2019.
The investigator recommend Virgin should  refund Ms M the interest she was charged from 
February 2019 (when she first called them to pay off the balance).  Virgin  agreed to the 
investigators recommendation, however  Ms M didnt. Ms M said shed tried to pay prior to 
February 2019 so she wanted all the interest  refunded. The investigator didnt agree. She 
explained that shed listened  to the calls between Ms M and Virgin  and at times it sounded 
like a third party had called on behalf of Ms M, and she hadnt  seen  any evidence of Ms M 
trying to pay before February 2019. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons.
The account  review  and block
Ive considered Virgins actions when reviewing  and subsequently suspending Ms Ms 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied  they acted in line with their obligations. 
Virgin are strictly regulated and must  take certain actions in order  to meet  their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Virgin were acting in line with 
these obligations  when reviewing Ms Ms account.  
I appreciate Ms M would  like Virgin to give her an explanation why they reviewed her 
accounts. A bank isnt obliged to do that. However,  Id like to reassure Ms M that based on 
the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Virgin acted appropriately in the circumstances. 
The calls between Ms M and Virgin
Ref: DRN24799402Ive listened to the calls which Virgin have provided. I agree with the investigator that for a 
number of these  calls, it sounds like a different person  to Ms M talking about  her account. 
When the investigator raised this with Ms M, she didnt seem to have any concerns and 
explained it could  have been one of her family members. Nonetheless, security was passed  
on all the calls, so I think its fair to say Ms M did give her consent.
The first call Ive heard  where  Ms M asked  to repay the balance in full happened in 
February 2019. I havent seen any correspondence prior to this date where  Ms M asked to 
pay the balance.  Therefore,  it wouldnt  be fair for me to ask Virgin  to refund  Ms M the 
interest charged prior to this date.  And thats because  Im not satisfied, she tried to pay more 
than the minimum payment balance before February 2019.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Ms M attempted to repay  the full balance on her credit  card account in 
February 2019. Therefore, Virgin should refund Ms M the interest charged on her account 
from February 2019 to the date she repaid the balance. 
I appreciate Ms M thinks Virgin  should  refund more of the interest, but I havent  seen any 
evidence of Ms M attempting to repay  the balance before this date. So, I wont be asking 
them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Virgin  Money plc should do the following:
Reimburse Ms M with the interest  charged  to Ms Ms credit card account from 
20 February 2019 to the date she repaid the balance in full.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Hayley West
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2479940