K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 2001.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Miss S owed on her store card. The policy would  have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Miss S couldnt work 
because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy  also provided life cover  
as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss S that the policy was optional and get her consent  before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Miss S says the PPI was added without giving her the 
option to choose.
FICL says Miss S took out the PPI over the phone. Due to the time that has passed since  
the sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont  think  that is 
surprising. So I cant say for certain what was said to Miss S during that phone call. But from 
what we know about the way FICL sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL  
would have asked  Miss S for her agreement to add the policy  to her account. 
Miss S had already had the card for several months  before the PPI was added.  So when the 
charge for the PPI would  have started  to show on her monthly statements, if she didnt know 
what this amount was for or hadnt agreed to taking out the cover,  I think she would have 
raised this sooner than she did. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Miss S chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want  it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Miss S and, as I havent seen anything to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely to be right. So it didnt have to check if the 
policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave Miss S clear enough 
information about the policy to enable  her to decide  for herself if she should  take the policy.
Ref: DRN24978972Its possible  the information FICL gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Miss S 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  she was 
already aware.  And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it appears it 
could have been useful to her if something had gone wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Miss S has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2497897