K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains as the Executor of the Estate of the late Mrs W (the Estate) that 
National Savings  and Investments (NS&I) processes in dealing with the estates of deceased 
persons should  be simplified. 
background
Mr W is an Executor  of his late mother,  Mrs Ws, estate. In February 2019 he wrote to NS&I  
to notify it of Mrs Ws passing, and to arrange  for her accounts to be closed and for any 
proceeds to be paid to the Estate. 
In response, NS&I  sent Mr W a number of closure  forms to complete:- one for each of the 
accounts/products held by Mrs W. Mr W was unhappy there were multiple forms, largely 
seeking a duplication of the same information, and thought NS&I should change  its 
requirements to make  the process less cumbersome  in future. This was particularly in the 
context of somebody having  suffered  bereavement,  and having  to deal with unnecessary 
bureaucracy. 
NS&I didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said it understood  it was less than ideal for 
Mr W having to fill out each individual form, but explained why this was necessary. It 
apologised for the inconvenience, but believed that its requirements were  reasonable. 
Mr W didnt agree, and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that NS&I  had been  able to explain and 
justify its process, and he also explained our service couldnt  ask it to change  this in any 
event, as we werent its regulator. He advised that this would be a matter for the FCA, and 
provided contact details if Mr W wished to direct his complaint there.
Mr W still felt that NS&I  needed to change its requirements, and asked for an ombudsmans  
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that we cant uphold this complaint, 
and for the same  reasons  hes given. 
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr W. He clearly believes the process  NS&I  made 
him follow is cumbersome  and unnecessary,  and should be changed in future. But as our 
Investigators already explained,  even  if we were to agree  with that, were  not NS&Is 
regulatory body,  so we cant tell it what to do here.  If that were to be decided, it would be a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Id like to express my condolences to Mr W on the loss of his mother.  I dont doubt that 
having to fill in the same details on multiple forms must have been  draining, and would have  
seemed a great waste of time during  a difficult period, when other things were more 
important. But Im satisfied that NS&Is  explanation  that each individual product  needed  its 
own closure form to be completed  as there  were  a choice of options  available on closing  
Ref: DRN24541042each account  is a practical and reasonable response. NS&I couldnt know  whether the 
Estate was going to choose the same outcome  for all the accounts,  so it had to give the 
choice. 
I need to consider all the evidence, and reach an outcome thats fair to both parties. For the 
reasons Ive given,  I cant say NS&Is made  a mistake, or treated Mr W poorly,  and I cant 
ask it to change  it processes. So I wont  be upholding the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W, on behalf of 
the Estate  of the late Mrs W, to accept  or reject  my decision before 3 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2454104