K820x#14complaint
Ms U complains that Enness Limited hasnt treated her fairly  or reasonably  in relation to fees 
it has claimed and the mortgage product it obtained on her behalf. She wants the length of 
the fixed interest rate period extended  and not to pay the fees.
background
Ms U took out a mortgage product to remortgage  and used Enness as her broker. The 
lender paid fees to the broker,  which Mrs U said was unfair as she didnt think  she should 
pay the broker fees too. Ms U also said that she thought she was getting a two year fixed  
interest rate mortgage, but has now found  out that the fixed  interest rate is only for a period 
of 18 months.
Ms U complained to Enness. It said Ms U had agreed to its fees when she accepted  and 
signed its terms of business; they were also set out in the mortgage documents supplied  
before the mortgage was taken out, as was the payment due from the lender to Enness.
Ms U complained to us. The investigators view was that the fees had been clearly set out to 
Ms U before she took out the mortgage in two documents and it wasnt unfair or 
unreasonable to charge those fees.  And while  he accepted that the mortgage  product was 
referred to as a two year product, they usually  didnt last exactly 24 months and the end date 
was clearly stated in the mortgage documents (which was 21 months  after completion). He 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Ms U disagreed. She said the documents said the product was for 24 months and the fees 
for Enness werent disclosed to her. The investigator  pointed out that the fees to be paid by 
the lender to Enness  were in the key facts illustration and the mortgage offer, as was the end 
date of the fixed interest rate period.  The fees to be paid by Ms U to Enness were  also set 
out in mortgage documents and the client agreement she signed with it about fees. 
Ms Us representative, Mr G, sent documents to this service which he said showed that the 
advised/non advised box wasnt ticked and suggested not all of the relevant documents had 
been sent by Enness. The investigator explained that it wasnt unusual  for there to be more  
than one version of a document,  but he viewed the transactions as being  advised, which  
benefitted Ms U and didnt  change his view. Mr G said that he thought that there was a 
possibility of fraud and Ms U was considering judicial review  or to go to the police.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the investigators view is correct  for 
the reasons he has already given to the parties.
Ref: DRN25858752I have looked  at all the evidence available  to me, including  the different versions of the key 
facts illustration document from Ms U and Enness. All versions  of the document confirm the 
end date of the fixed  interest rate period and that Enness  would receive a fee from the 
lender, together with other  fees (though it doesnt expressly say Ms U will be paying  those 
other fees). The mortgage offer also sets out the fees to be paid to Enness by Ms U, as does 
the client agreement  which  she signed. The issue of whether the box for advised was ticked  
is unimportant  Ms U was advised and the transaction  has been considered on that basis. 
All that the unticked box shows is that there  was more than one version of the document,  
which is not uncommon with electronically created documents  and not in itself evidence of 
fraud.
The context  of the key facts  illustration is that Ms U had been made aware of Enness fees 
and that she was responsible for paying  them by this point. So I dont think its an issue that 
the lender didnt expressly reiterate a point already known  to Ms U. Mr G has said that Ms U 
is knowledgeable in financial matters so it isnt unfair  or unreasonable  to expect her to have  
read these  documents carefully,  though  this applies  to all consumers. Im satisfied that 
Enness made its fees clear to Ms U and that Ms U was told the end date of the fixed  interest 
rate period  in writing  before taking out the mortgage product.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2585875