K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. Even though  this was a joint 
mortgage, only Mr B was insured under the policy for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
The policy was free for six months but following this they paid a monthly amount for the 
cover. If Mr B had made a successful claim, the policy would have paid out the repayment 
benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs B have said it wasnt made  clear  that the policy  was optional. But I think B&B 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it 
out. I say this because  Ive been  given a copy of the mortgage application form which was 
completed at the time and this includes a section about PPI. In this section  there are options 
to tick to choose the level of cover required and on Mr and Mrs Bs form I can see that the 
option to take out illness, injury & unemployment has been ticked. There  was an option to 
decline to take the PPI cover. Information about  the amount of monthly cover that was 
required from the policy has also been  completed on the form. Mr and Mrs B have signed the 
overall application form which suggests  they agreed  with everything that had been entered.  If 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  want to take out the PPI they could have ticked the no box.
Mr and Mrs B say B&B told them  PPI was a condition of the loan and also that it would give 
them a better chance  of having the loan approved. I cant know  with certainty  what  
Mr and Mrs B were told when they were sold the PPI and I accept they may have felt 
pressured. But I havent found any other evidence to support that they were told by B&B that 
the mortgage wouldnt be approved without PPI. And the paperwork doesnt suggest that this 
is what happened. The initial application form completed allowed Mr and Mrs B to say no to 
any form of PPI. This isnt something  I would  expect to see if the PPI was a condition of the 
lending. Its also worth  noting  that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer doesnt set out PPI as a 
mandatory condition  of the borrowing.
So on balance, I think  its most likely the policy was presented as optional  and Mr and Mrs B 
took it out, knowing they could refuse  it if they didnt want it.
B&B says it didnt recommend the PPI. Mr and Mrs B disagree. Based on what  B&B says 
happened when  it sold the policy, I think its more  likely that it didnt provide advice. This 
means B&B didnt have  to check if the cover was right for them. But it did have to make  
Ref: DRN23459222sure Mr and Mrs B got the information they needed  to decide  for themselves if it was right 
for them.
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI when completing  the application form - so 
it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances 
at the time (as the only insured person) it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the 
main exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for them  if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have  put them 
off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said, including  what  they have said about  
not needing the policy as Mr B was entitled  to some sick pay and they had some  savings 
they could have used. But as Ive mentioned  above,  B&B didnt recommend the policy  to 
them so it was up to Mr and Mrs B to decide if they wanted the cover,  based  on what they 
knew about their personal financial circumstances. In any event, this policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay Mr B may have received and it would have enabled  them to 
protect any savings they did have  for another purpose or use them  to cover other essential 
living expenses. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2345922