K820x#14complaint
Mrs W doesnt think Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) has offered her fair compensation 
following her complaint about  her payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  sold with a mortgage in 1991. Mrs W says at the time of 
the sale, the policy documents were sent to Barclays and not to her.
Mrs W was made redundant  in 1996 and she says she didnt make a claim because she 
hadnt been sent the policy documents.
In May 2017  Mrs W complained to Barclays about her PPI policy.  She wanted Barclays  to 
pay her the amount she would have received if her claim was successful in 1996. In addition 
she wanted compensation for the stress  she suffered  because  she wasnt  able to make a 
claim.
Barclays said that her policy was mis-sold and offered compensation of £678.85. But it didnt 
address Mrs Ws complaint about  the fact that she wasnt  able to make a claim on the policy.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. The 
adjudicator handling her complaint told Mrs W that she needed to contact her insurer to 
assess whether or not her claim in 1996  would have  been  successful.
This is because normally  the insurer is responsible for making payments when the 
requirements set out for making claims were met, not the business that sold the insurance  - 
Barclays. 
After bringing the complaint to our service, Barclays paid Mrs W £150 for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the way it handled  her complaint.  But Mrs W asked  for the amount of the 
successful claim  to be paid.
The adjudicator didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs W disagreed, so the complaint was passed  
to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining  that Id considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  what I thought was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this 
complaint.
I noted that Mrs W never brought a complaint  to Barclays  saying something went wrong with 
the way PPI was sold to her. Instead  she complained that, as she didnt know  she had it, she 
couldnt make a claim in 1996. But Barclays treated this as a complaint about the sale of 
PPI. Under the rules  Barclays  follows when looking at complaints,  it must look into a 
complaint holistically. So I thought it was fair for Barclays to look into the sale of the policy as 
well as whether Mrs W was able to make a claim on her policy,  as when she first complained 
she said she didnt know she had PPI.
And Barclays said it didnt  think PPI was suitable for Mrs W when  it sold her the policy, so it 
agreed PPI was mis-sold and agreed to compensate her for that. I thought Barclays worked  
out her compensation in the way Id expect it to. 
Ref: DRN22206682But I also noted the offer didnt answer Mrs Ws complaint that Barclays  hadnt forward the 
documents from the insurer  after the policy was set up in 1991. Mrs W said this is the reason 
why she didnt make a claim. So she thought  Barclays should pay her the amount she would 
have received if her claim was successful in 1996 and extra compensation for the stress  she 
suffered as result.
I explained that I didnt think it would be fair for me to ask Barclays to do this.
Although Barclays was the business  that sold her PPI, it wasnt the insurer. So I said 
Barclays wasnt responsible for assessing any claims  or administering the insurance policy.
Mrs W said she found the policy documents  that were sent to Barclays  in 1991  when  she 
sold her house  the policy documents were included with her deeds. So I thought the 
insurer did send something to Barclays. 
But due to the passage of time there werent detailed records  of what  was or wasnt  sent out 
in 1991. Based on the available evidence, I simply wasnt able to say the insurer didnt also 
send anything to Mrs W directly  or that Barclays didnt  forward  a copy of the policy 
documents to her at the time. Although it was possible  the insurer  didnt send  Mrs W 
anything, I thought it was equally possible policy documents  were sent out and she 
disregarded them. 
I also explained that even if I thought the underwriter  didnt send out policy  documents  
directly to Mrs W it wouldnt immediately follow that Id expect  Barclays to pay out the 
compensation she wanted. I thought  for me to say Barclays should pay out on a claim Id 
have to make a number  of findings   that there  was a legal or regulatory duty on Barclays to 
forward on the policy documents;  that the reason  she didnt make a claim in 1996 was 
because Barclays hadnt done that; and that any claim  would have been successful. 
I didnt think I was able to make any findings on those  issues  as there was so little 
information available from the time. But in any event, I didnt think  I needed to make  any 
findings because  Mrs W was making a backdated claim. So another business,  the insurer, 
would assess whether or not the claim would have been paid if it had been made in 1996.  
And, if necessary, it would pay out on any claim.
Because of this, I thought  Barclays  offer for the mis-sale of the policy was fair and it didnt 
need to do anything further.
Barclays responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further  to add.
Mrs W responded to say she didnt agree with my provisional decision. She said I had made 
a mistake when I said she remembered applying for PPI. She said she didnt remember 
applying for it until she saw the documents included with her deeds.  Mrs W also questioned 
why Barclays had said PPI had been mis-sold.
Mrs W asked  why the insurer didnt  send anything directly to her in 1991  as it would have 
had her address.  She pointed out that the only evidence  available showed the details were 
sent to the Barclays  branch and not to her directly. She also questioned why Barclays 
werent considering  the claim as the actual insurer appeared to be a linked company.
Mrs W felt it was likely her claim would have  succeeded had it been made as she was in full 
time employment, had been made  redundant and had been paying  her PPI premiums.
Ref: DRN22206683Since I issued my provisional  decision, the insurer initially agreed to pay Mrs Ws backdated 
claim. But then it said it wasnt the insurer at the time Mrs W was claiming for, so it wouldnt 
pay the claim. This is now the subject of another complaint that this service will consider 
separately.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still dont think Barclays needs  to do anything further.
Mrs W has provided her memories from the time of the sale and from when she first received 
her deeds  and other documents  from Barclays  she has been clear throughout and I have 
no reason to doubt these are her honest recollections. In my provisional  decision I said 
Mrs W remembered applying for PPI in 1991, but in response she explained that wasnt the 
case. Instead Mrs W said seeing the documents  with her deeds reminded her PPI was 
applied for in 1991. For the avoidance of doubt  I accept what  Mrs W has said about this.
In deciding this complaint  Ive had to think about  what happened in 1991, specifically what 
documents were  sent to her by Barclays and the PPI insurer. Due to the passage  of time I 
think it is very difficult, if not impossible, to know what happened.  I wouldnt expect a 
business to keep records of letters that were sent out nearly thirty years  ago.
Mrs W says she wasnt  sent any information about  PPI at the time. In support of this she had 
pointed to a policy certificate sent to a Barclays branch  that she says was not forwarded to 
her and she says, had she known about  PPI, she would have made a claim in 1996. Mrs W 
has pointed out that this is the only evidence anything about PPI was ever sent out to 
anyone.
Mrs W is right that the only available evidence the insurer  sent anything  out is this certificate 
and it is addressed to her, care of a Barclays branch, not to her home address. And I have 
thought about her argument that, had she known she had a policy,  she would have made a 
claim in 1996. But I simply  am unable  to say what information was sent out in 1991  and to 
whom. Its possible the insurer and/or Barclays didnt send anything to Mrs W directly, but its 
possible something was sent out. 
And even  if I did think the insurer had only sent something to Mrs Ws Barclays  branch, I still 
dont think there was any duty for Barclays to forward that information on to her. For 
example, its not clear  that the insurer told Barclays that it wasnt  sending  anything to her 
directly or asked it to forward  the letter to Mrs W. I think if there  was any failing it was in the 
insurer not sending  Mrs W her insurance  information, not Barclays  in not forwarding anything  
to her.
So although  I do understand why Mrs W has asked Barclays  to pay a backdated  claim,  for 
the reasons set out above I think that complaint needs to be made  to the insurer.
Ref: DRN22206684my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think Barclays Bank Plc has offered Mrs W fair 
compensation. As compensation has already been paid, I make no further  award against 
Barclays Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220668