K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage), has been of unsatisfactory quality.
background
I provided my provisional decision  on this complaint  in May 2020. In that decision I explained 
that, unless I was provided with further  evidence  that changed my mind, I was expecting not 
to uphold Mr As complaint. An extract  from that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr A took receipt of a used car in October 2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Advantage. At the point of supply the car had already completed 
39,239 miles and was about five years old.
Mr A had problems with the car. As follows:
in November 2018 he returned  it to the dealerhip. They said the Exhaust Gas 
Recirculation (EGR) valve was faulty  and they repaired it. There  was also mention of 
a problem with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) which  the dealership refused to 
repair as they said it was a problem related to wear and tear;
the problem  persisted  and in January 2019  Mr A took the car to an independent  
garage and paid £40 for a diagnostic. The garage thought the DPF had been 
modified or tampered with. They said a new exhaust was required  and the DPF 
would need to be replaced  with the associated sensors;
Mr A complained to Advantage  and an independent inspection was arranged in 
March 2019. The engineer noted that the EGR and DPF needed  regenerating  but he 
explained that this would be considered routine maintenance.
Mr A took the car to have this work  completed.  He says the garage also thought the 
DPF had been removed at some  stage. They charged Mr A £250 for the regeneration  
but Mr A says hes been unable  to use the car since  only at low speeds and over 
short distances.
Mr A wanted  to reject the car but Advantage would not allow that as they noted  the 
independent inspector hadnt identified any problems. They  also noted that the car had 
passed its MOT  shortly  before Mr A took receipt  of it. They  explained that the MOT  test was 
now stricter with regards  to the DPF and they asserted that any tampering would have been 
noted at that time  but hadnt been. They said that the DPF and EGR would block over time 
and this had clearly been exaggerated by the short  journeys Mr A tended  to take in his car 
when automatic regeneration temperatures would not be reached. 
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
noted that the fault with the car had happened very shortly after Mr A had taken receipt  of 
the car and he therefore thought it was most  likely  it was present when the car was supplied 
to him. He explained  that the relevant  legislation  allowed Advantage an opportunity to repair 
a fault that was present  or developing at the point of supply. But he thought  Advantage had 
used up that opportunity when they attempted to repair the car in November 2018 and when 
that repair subsequently failed.
He considered Advantages concerns about  the car passing an MOT he said it wasnt  for him 
to comment on whether the MOT  had been carried out correctly  but he was persuaded there 
was a fault with the DPF and EGR very early  on and he was persuaded by the independent  
Ref: DRN23691802views of two garages that it was most  likely the DPF had been tampered  with. He didnt think 
it was likely Mr A had tampered with the car as he noted it was Mr A who had reported  a 
fault to the dealership. He didnt  think it would be likely hed do so if the fault was of his 
making.
So the investigator suggested  that Advantage allow Mr A to terminate his finance 
agreement; refund his deposit,  pay him £150  to compensate him for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused and refund 40% of his finance instalments because  of the lack of use 
hed had from the car.
Advantage didnt  agree  with the investigators  view so the complaint was passed for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont currently agree with the investigators view.  I know  that will disappoint Mr A so please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Advantage, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. The car here 
was around five years old and had travelled a little over 39,000  miles.  Id expect some wear 
and tear on a vehicle  of that age and mileage.
Im not persuaded that its most  likely the DPF filter has been tampered  with or that there is 
sufficient evidence the car was faulty,  or developing a fault, when  supplied  to Mr A. I say that 
because:
the car passed  an MOT in October  2018  a few weeks before Mr A took receipt of it. 
Ive reviewed Advantages comments about the changes to the MOT in May 2018  
and can see that the MOT checks had been  tightened and that any car with a 
tampered DPF, or one that was emitting visible smoke of any colour, would  fail the 
Ref: DRN23691803MOT. I think its likely that if Mr As car had a tampered DPF it would have been  
identified at this point;
Im supported in this view as I note the car also passed an MOT  in October  2019.  Ive 
reviewed the test report and theres no mention of emissions issues or DPF 
tampering. And, again, I think if the DPF had been  tampered with it would have been 
identified in this MOT, if not in the first one. Mr A tells me the car is still emitting 
smoke but it seems smoke  emissions  would be picked up by the MOT so Im not 
persuaded its likely;
Mr A tells me the current mileage is 52,506. That means  hes driven 13,267  in the 18 
months hes had the car or a little less than 9,000  per year.  Thats more than average 
mileage and I dont  think it would be possible to cover that mileage if the problems he 
experienced back in November  2018 persisted;. 
whilst  I can see that the garage Mr A took his car to in January 2019 suggested the 
DPF may have been tampered with, I dont think theres sufficient evidence that was 
corroborated in May 2019 when Mr A took his car to have the regeneration  
completed. Mr A says the garage  told him the DPF had been removed but Ive not 
seen any written  evidence of this; 
the independent inspector didnt suggest  thered been any DPF tampering  either.  He 
suggested a regeneration of the DPF was necessary. 
Having completed  that regeneration its clear Mr A has been able to achieve a reasonable 
mileage in the car and that the car had no emissions or DPF issues in October 2019 when it 
was MOTd. So I think its most likely  the DPF had become  blocked  and required 
regeneration as the inspector suggested.
I dont think theres evidence that was a fault at the point of supply as I think its clear the 
DPF can become blocked during normal operation, if automatic regeneration isnt triggered 
by sufficiently high engine temperature. This seems to happen in normal  operation  if trips are 
short or speeds are limited.
When Mr A returned his car to the dealership  in November 2018 they repaired the faulty 
EGR valve but would  not repair the DPF as they explained it was likely to have become 
blocked during  normal  operation. I think, given the evidence thats been provided, that their 
position on this was most probably correct. And Im therefore not expecting to tell Advantage 
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Advantage didnt  provide any further information,  but Mr A did.
I wont refer to everything Mr A said as some of it was background information. I think  the 
most important issues he mentioned were:
The MOT  didnt check the DPF fault and only tested the engine at idle: not when it 
was smoking.
Several garages  had suggested there was a fault with the DPF but they could  not be 
certain as this would  require  an expensive  check.
The independent inspector provided  his opinion in 10 minutes and didnt drive the 
car.
Ref: DRN23691804Mr A also provided a further  diagnostic report which was completed  in May 2020.  This report  
suggested there were, amongst other issues, problems with the EGR flow and that the 
turbocharger was under boosting. It said the car was smoking and concluded that there  may 
be a clogged DPF and that the turbo  may need replacing.
And Mr A also provided a graph that he said hed found since  I issued my provisional 
decision. He said this graph was proof the car had been remapped at some point.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my findings that the changes to the MOT would mean  the car failed if there 
was excessive smoke or a DPF that had been tampered with. So, Im not persuaded that the 
MOT would not have  picked up these issues had they been present at the time.
I understand that several garages  have suggested  a DPF fault may be present. But, as I 
explained in my provisional findings,  I think theres  insufficient evidence of this and I think, on 
the evidence provided, that its more likely the DPF had become blocked.  This can happen 
during normal operation.
The independent inspector did note the smoke emissions and the lack of power in the car 
but didnt think  it was likely they were due to a fault with the vehicle. It was the independent 
inspectors expert view that the problem was due to a partially blocked DPF that would 
happen during normal  operation, and Im persuaded the evidence  suggests that was the 
case.
I appreciate the additional  diagnostic report provided  by Mr A, but I dont think that evidences  
a fault at the point of supply either and, indeed, it does somewhat support the independent 
engineers findings that the DPF is clogged rather than faulty. 
Ive also thought about the graph that Mr A has found. It does appear to be a graph showing 
engine performance  information that may be required  when a car is mapped. But its not 
dated or signed and theres  no reference to Mr As car or why it was created. So, it would be 
unfair to suggest  it has a bearing on this complaint.
Im not therefore been persuaded to change my provisional view on this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2369180