K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that NewDay  Ltd (NewDay),  trading  as Debenhams,  have refused to 
refund money  taken  from her account without her approval and that theyve sold on her 
contact details to other  parties, again without  her approval.
background
Mrs G bought a cream using her Debenhams  credit  card. She later received a message to 
say the retailer  would  be sending another product. Mrs G realised  shed inadvertently joined 
a subscription service and she cancelled it immediately, returned the product and her money 
was refunded.
However, two more payments were taken out of her account for products she says she didnt 
even receive. She was charged £69.99 and £78.49 and incurred a further £6.50 for postage 
to return another  product that was sent to her but subsequently refunded.  She believed  
shed been the subject  of a scam and that theyd  received her details through NewDay. So 
she complained  to them in March 2018.
NewDay put a stop on transactions from the retailers Mrs G had referred to them. They  sent 
Mrs G a declaration form and asked her to complete it so they could process a chargeback  
request to dispute  the transactions. But Mrs G didnt return  this form until the beginning of 
May 2018 and by this time it was too late to raise a chargeback under the schemes rules 
which said claims needed to be made  within 120 days. 
They said that even  if Mrs Gs form had been  returned in time they still wouldnt have been 
able to find in her favour as shed entered her card details on a website and accepted the 
retailers terms and conditions which included them being able to share her details with 
partner companies  and explained that Mrs G was entering into a continuous  service  
agreement. They added  that they do not and had not sold Mrs Gs details on to any other 
companies.
But Mrs G was still dissatisfied so she referred  her complaint to this service and our 
adjudicator provided  her view. She explained that Mrs Gs declaration form was received too 
late for NewDay to consider a chargeback and she thought that even if they had received 
her form in time the chargeback wouldnt  have  been  successful. She explained that NewDay 
wouldve had to be satisfied that Mrs G hadnt  given  the business her card details or entered 
into an ongoing subscription and she didnt think that was likely, as when Mrs G made her 
first intended  purchase this would have been a requirement.
She noted that Mrs G hadnt provided any evidence  to support her assertion  that the 
business had sold on her details and she was persuaded that it was unlikely it had. So 
overall, she didnt  think  the business  needed  to take any further action.
But Mrs G disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators opinion  on this complaint. Please let me explain why.
Ref: DRN29503072Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The chargeback scheme  is intended  to help resolve  disputes between the consumer and the 
merchant without the need to resort to court action.
The scheme, in this case, is operated  not by NewDay but by Mastercard and the scheme 
operator sets strict  rules  under which claims can be made.
One of those rules  is that claims need  to be made  to the creditor  (NewDay)  within  120 days.
But unfortunately by the time Mrs G submitted her declaration  form with details of her 
dispute, to NewDay,  they were  out of time to dispute the transactions. There  was nothing  
NewDay could do about this as the scheme  isnt managed  by them  and they dont set the 
rules. Theyd reminded Mrs G to get the form back in time but it wasnt received until later.
I dont think a chargeback  would have  been  successful anyway. Im persuaded Mrs G, albeit  
inadvertently, most likely entered into a continuous service agreement  with the retailer.  She 
wouldve had to enter her card details for payments  to be taken and its clear  this was the 
case. The terms of these agreements require an ongoing subscription so NewDay  wouldnt 
have been able to dispute the agreement that was in place.
So whilst I have every  sympathy  for Mrs Gs situation I dont think NewDay have  done  
anything wrong  here when rejecting  her claim and I dont think it would be reasonable to 
suggest theyve  sold on her contact details. Theres been no evidence of this and Im 
persuaded that its more likely this was done  through  the initial purchase with the retailer.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2950307