K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  has unfairly declined a claim on their 
buildings insurance  policy for damage  they say was caused by a storm.
background
Mrs S brings this complaint on behalf of her and her husband so Ill refer to her throughout 
this decision.
Mrs S has a buildings insurance  policy with Aviva.  She discovered  rain water dripping  
through her ceiling.  She contacted Aviva to make a claim  on her buildings insurance policy. 
She believed  the leak had been  caused by storm conditions.  
Aviva arranged for one of its contractors to visit the property to assess  the damage. The 
contractor concluded  that the leak hadnt been caused by a storm so Aviva declined the 
claim.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this so she complained.  Aviva said it didnt think  the weather at the 
time of the event  amounted to a storm and the damage identified  wasnt  consistent  with a 
one-off event.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with this so she brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator  
said that while she accepted there were high winds around the time of the damage, from the 
evidence presented she wasnt persuaded a storm was the main  cause of the damage.  So 
she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly  by declining the claim.
Mrs S asked an ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same reasons. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mrs S so Ill explain my reasoning.
My role at this service  is to resolve  complaints quickly and with minimal formality.  When  
doing this, Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and Ill only comment 
on the things I consider  relevant to the decision I need to make. That means I may not 
comment on everything thats been  said by the parties but I confirm  I have read and 
considered all the evidence.
Aviva is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy and the terms and 
conditions will define what those things are. So what I need  to decide here is whether Aviva 
has acted within those  terms, while keeping  in mind what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When a consumer makes a claim on an insurance  policy, the onus is on them to show that, 
on the balance  of probabilities, an insured event caused the damage.  When  an insurer 
wants to apply an exclusion  or say a condition has not been met and so decline the claim,  
the onus is on it to show, on the balance of probabilities, that the exclusion or condition  
applies.
Ref: DRN24910802When looking at a complaint about  a declined claim for storm damage, there are a number 
of things I need to consider:
Is there evidence which shows there  was a storm on or around  the date the damage 
occurred?
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Were the conditions  the main cause of the damage?
Ill deal with each  of these in turn.
Was there a storm?
The policy defines  a storm  as
An unusual weather  event  with persistent high winds usually associated with rain, 
thunder, lightning  or snow
Ive checked the weather records around the area where Mrs S lives for the seven days 
leading up to the day the damage was reported. These show  that wind and rain levels  
peaked three days before  the report to Aviva.
While rain was present on this day, it was not a particularly high level and, in isolation, not at 
a level that would generally be considered to be a storm. But there  were  strong  winds 
consistent with a storm, so from this Im satisfied there were storm conditions.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Avivas contractors identified a broken tile on the roof of Mrs Ss property. Im satisfied this 
damage is consistent with the kind of damage  that might be caused  by a storm involving 
high winds.
Were the conditions the main cause of the damage? 
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit the property to survey the damage.  The LA 
reported seeing moss between the roof tiles and specifically  mentioned  a broken or 
misaligned tile where this was apparent. His report included  photos to demonstrate this. 
He felt that this wasnt storm  damage  due to the levels of moss  seen between the two parts 
of the tile which wouldnt have accumulated so soon after the storm a few days before. He 
said this showed  it wasnt a recent incident. He also felt the internal damage was long term 
because of historic staining  and cracks. Im aware Mrs S has questioned the thoroughness  
of the inspection but it was carried out by an appropriate person and Im satisfied Aviva  is 
entitled to rely on the LAs findings.  Having read the report and studied  the photos  I find the 
evidence it presents persuasive.  
From the information in this report,  Aviva  concluded  the damage hadnt  happened as a result 
of a one-off  storm event.  It said it thought  the storm had merely  highlighted  an existing defect 
rather than being  the cause of the damage. It declined the claim as the policy doesnt cover 
loss or damage that happens  gradually.
Ref: DRN24910803I know Mrs S doesnt agree with the conclusions  reached by the LA and has given a number 
of reasons why and I have taken account  of what she says. But she hasnt  provided  any 
expert evidence which  backs up her view and presents an alternative view to that reached 
by Avivas LA. 
On balance, I find the evidence produced by Aviva  more persuasive and I dont think Mrs S 
has done enough to show her argument is more likely. I think its more likely  than not that the 
storm wasnt the main cause of the damage. That means Aviva  is entitled to rely on the 
exclusion and so Ive concluded it didnt act unfairly  when it declined  the claim for storm 
damage.
So Im not going to ask Aviva to do anymore.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 September 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2491080