K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  their home insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  in 
relation to a claim  they made to it when oil was stolen from their home causing damage to 
their boiler and heating  system.
background
Around 20 February 2018 Mr and Mrs Fs heating stopped working,  they discovered their oil 
supply had been stolen. This had damaged the boiler. They contacted  an engineer,  he 
couldnt restart  the boiler without a new oil supply, whilst this was on order there was a 
backlog and weather conditions were preventing delivery. On 28 February 2018, having 
been without heating and hot water for a week, Mr and Mrs F called  UKI and made a claim.
Unfortunately the claim did not progress as Mr and Mrs F had hoped:
They were moved  to a hotel  but had to move home again  a few week later.
Water  leaks  were found,  they had no heating or hot water.
They remained in the home until May 2018;  this affected their babys health.
When they moved out it was to a hotel  again, there were delays with payment.
When a holiday home was agreed for a time, UKI refused the extra  £25/night cost.
UKI changed the rate of allowance it was paying  them whilst living in the hotel.
They were warned UKI might not pay any more for accommodation.
A dispute about the kitchen arose; culminating  with a dispute over its replacement cost.
UKI threatened  to stop work  because it said the heating wasnt left on.
UKIs contractors damaged the garage, which UKI didnt  accept.
UKI considered concerns  Mr and Mrs F had raised  and issued three final responses; the last 
of which  was dated 28 January 2019.  In short  UKI said:
It noted accommodation payments for December  2018 were  outstanding but said these 
were being dealt with. And it may continue to pay costs even though the policy  limit for 
this was nearly exhausted, if a medical  report for the baby was seen.
Its offer for replacing the kitchen was fair, it wouldnt be revising  it.
The heating did need to be left on.
It wasnt liable for the damage to the garage.
It accepted there had been failings and delays during the claim. 
It apologised for what it had put them  through  and paid a total of £1,000 compensation.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy. They complained to us. They  updated us with what had 
happened since the January 2019 final response. When  we checked with UKI it said it would 
only allow  us to consider Mr and Mrs Fs complaint in respect of activity  which  had occurred 
up until its final response letter of January  2019. 
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint. He felt that the compensation paid, in the 
circumstances, was fair and reasonable. He wasnt minded to make UKI do anything more.
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy. They said UKIs  actions had drastically affected their babys 
health. They  said the financial implications of UKIs continued belated  payments for 
accommodation had been severe.  In short, they said UKIs handling of this claim  had been  
horrendously poor and theyd suffered markedly as a result.  They didnt think our 
investigators findings had answered  or considered all of their concerns. Their  complaint was 
passed to me to consider.  
Ref: DRN21859822I reviewed the complaint  and felt that UKI should pay more compensation. I also felt it should 
pay more for costs Mr and Mrs F had incurred for living elsewhere. 
UKI said it accepted  my findings  but drew my attention to a further amount of 
compensation it had paid in early January 2019. I let Mr and Mrs F know and gave them a 
chance to check  this had been  received  by them. This meant UKI, to the point of its last final 
response dated 28 January 2019,  had paid a total of £1,200  compensation. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt  disagree with the amount  of compensation  UKI had paid to that date. 
But they were unhappy  about  my findings.  In short, they felt I hadnt considered or answered 
all of their 41 points  of complaint, and they remained unhappy about this complaint having 
been cut-off at the point  of UKIs  January 2019  final response. They  said there  were  
problems that had begun prior to January 2019 which  I hadnt  take into account or given an 
answer on, such as what was needed to reinstate their bathroom damaged by UKI in 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
41 points of complaint
In response to my provisional findings  Mr and Mrs F have said they feel that not every  issue  
has been fully investigated and ran down. They say that doing so is necessary as it will show  
continued  misconduct and repeated patterns of dangerous behaviours .
Whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs F would like every call or contact investigating and 
commenting on  that isnt something  that I feel is necessary to do. I have considered  
everything that has happened, and everything that both sides have said  having done  so 
Im satisfied that UKI failed them and caused them  distress and inconvenience. Id add that 
we are an informal dispute resolution service and our decisions need to be clear and 
workable in practice. So it isnt appropriate  for me to provide a decision that answers  the 
complaint purely  in the way or in a form that is preferable to one or the other  of the parties. 
And nor is this service  the regulator,  whose job it would be to lay bare systemic bad 
practices with a view to changing them. Rather I have to assess  everything that happened,  
determine what went wrong, summarising  situations where appropriate and detailing  what  
I am and am not upholding and why. That is what Ive done here and Im satisfied that Ive 
considered the complaint as a whole, as far as Im able to (up to 28 January 2019). 
bathroom, internal  doors and a burglary
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs F said I hadnt  mentioned  these points of 
concern. Mr and Mrs F are not happy  with what UKI has said about  repairing/replacing the 
bathroom and the doors  which were damaged during 2018, and they said they are still 
suffering from having been burgled, which I had not mentioned.
I am considering the period up until 28 January 2019. But the dispute about the bathroom 
and internal doors did not reach deadlock until after that time. And the burglary did not occur 
until April 2019. So Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about these issues did not arise  until after the 
period I am able to consider as part of this complaint. That is why, apart from responding to 
Ref: DRN21859823this specific query about why these aspects dont feature as part of my decision, I havent  
mentioned the issues or the circumstances  that surround them  here.
kitchen
I said provisionally:
UKI initially, based on the advice of its contractor,  said a new kitchen  wasnt required. But it 
changed its view when  Mr and Mrs F sent it photos  and it was actually quite disappointed 
to see the work its contractor had undertaken. It agreed to replace the kitchen, and it revised  
its offer of settlement for this on three occasions  the last time in January 2019 when it 
realised tiling hadnt been accounted  for. UKIs final offer was £18,063 but Mr and Mrs F 
remained unhappy with this. 
I understand why UKI relied on its contractors advice   but its clear its contractor was 
wrong in this respect. But UKI did, once evidence  of the state of the kitchen  was presented  
to it, change its mind. I appreciate that UKI not initially including  everything  in its settlement 
was frustrating  but again once it was shown that other costs  were required it amended its 
offer. I think that was reasonable. Whilst I know Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the final 
settlement amount, this doesnt seem  unreasonable to me. Importantly, Ive not seen 
evidence from Mr and Mrs F; either of what they paid for their replacement kitchen or which  
shows UKI should reasonably have paid them more. I have commented below though on 
how this affected  the progress  of the claim.
In response to my provisional findings,  Mr and Mrs F said they were  not unhappy  with the 
settlement for the kitchen   rather  they detailed what had happened  with the kitchen as an 
example of UKIs behaviour.  Im pleased to note that Mr and Mrs F are satisfied with the 
kitchen settlement. 
heating
I said provisionally:  Mr and Mrs F said the heating was on. UKIs contractor reported it 
wasnt. I have no way to know which is most  likely the case.  But it wasnt unreasonable  for 
UKI to rely on what its contractor told it, or for it to let Mr and Mrs F know that if the heating  
wasnt left on it would  need to stop work.  Im pleased to note though that this situation didnt 
escalate and the reinstatement  work wasnt impacted.
Mr and Mrs F made no comment  in respect  of this finding.
garage
I said provisionally:  The glass in the door was broken. Mr and Mrs F felt this must have 
been done by the contractor. UKI looked into this but the contractor denied  liability. I think  it 
was reasonable  for UKI to conclude that its contractor hadnt been  shown to be liable for this 
damage.
Mr and Mrs F said the door was damaged at the top by a large lorry. This, they said, can be 
verified by their repairer.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F believe  their garage door was damaged by a UKI contractor. 
But I havent seen  any evidence that makes  me think this is most likely the case. In saying 
that I bear in mind  that even  if their repairer could  provide a persuasive report which  
Ref: DRN21859824determines what type of vehicle likely caused this damage  Ive no way of knowing whether 
the vehicle which actually did the damage  belonged to UKIs contractors.
alternative accommodation
I said provisionally:
I think  this could have been  handled  better. It isnt unusual, or necessarily unreasonable  for 
an insurer to ask its policyholder to pay for accommodation costs  up front and then claim 
back their outlay. But in this case a family of seven were staying in a hotel, and UKI gave no 
guidance or assistance in respect  of how this extraordinary cost for the family should  be 
managed, costs for which might be difficult for even a small family  to manage. I think  UKI 
paid costs during  2018, at least until October, in a reasonably timely manner, but without 
direction from UKI, Mr and Mrs F were submitting invoices  in bulk and this meant  they were 
often incurring costs  in the thousands before UKI was paying them  back. I accept this 
caused them  some  financial stress  and pressure.  Im going to require  UKI to pay interest  on 
each hotel cost they incurred  from the date they paid it until UKI reimbursed it. 
Im also going to require  UKI to pay Mr and Mrs F a further £25 per night, plus interest*  for 
the period they spent in the holiday home.  I believe this was at the end of August 2018,  
possibly until sometime in September 2018  but I havent seen detail of the exact booking 
or dates.  I dont think it was unreasonable, after months in a hotel for the family to want to 
stay somewhere a bit like home. I think its reasonable to require UKI to pay for that.
Since it issued its January  2019 response UKI has, I understand, paid the accommodation  
payments that were  outstanding at the point of the January  letter. I know other concerns 
regarding accommodation  costs arose  following the January 2019 final response,  but I cant  
consider those here.
Mr and Mrs F said that my comments here only scratched the surface.  They said the delays 
were horrendous  and caused  them untold difficulties  the cumulative effect over three years 
had been unbearable.
As I said,  for the time period Im considering , UKI shouldve managed  this better. Ive 
explained how and why I feel it failed them in this respect, and Im making  it pay interest to 
account for the financial loss. Also, I took into account the stress  they were  caused when 
awarding compensation. I appreciate  after 28 January 2019, Mr and Mrs Fs financial 
situation became  more  strained and the situation  surrounding alternative  accommodation 
developed  but Ive explained that I cant consider  that here.
disturbance allowance
I said provisionally:
Mr and Mrs F have  never  understood why the allowance changed. UKI has said its always  
up to the handlers  discretion what to pay. Whilst that may be, Id expect  there to be some 
logic or reason  for a change  like this, especially part way through a claim where the 
policyholder has reasonably been relying  on a higher payment. Ive seen no good reason not 
to treat Mr and Mrs Fs 17-year  old son as an adult.
Ref: DRN21859825I understand that whilst  the family  lived in their damaged home  in March  May 2018 there 
was no heating or hot water. If they didnt receive a disturbance allowance for this period, 
they should have done. UKI should  pay this now. 
In September  2018 UKI accepted that it owed Mr and Mrs F disturbance allowance  from 
29 May 2018 to the point they moved  into the holiday  home,  which was 13 August 2018. But 
it noted there was a period of around  a week  during  that time when the family was on 
holiday. UKI paid the allowance for that period at a rate of £45/day. This shouldve been  
£50/day  based on £10/day being  paid for the adult son, rather than £5. Im prepared to say 
that UKI should  now pay Mr and Mrs F £350  (70 days at £5 a day).
I also think this should have been handled  better  by UKI. It knew  the family were  
experiencing massive  costs living away  from home,  and it knew it had agreed to pay the 
disturbance allowance. They shouldnt have been left without  this payment for so long and 
I accept this added to the financial pressure  they felt. Given their situation, Im going to say 
UKI should add interest to the total allowance paid for this period, and that Ive now found  
due, from 29 May 2018 until settlement is made.
In reply Mr and Mrs F said that I need to reinvestigate this issue.  They said I must determine 
why there  is such an inconsistency between this and a previous claim they made. This time 
they had an extra child but their allowance  was halved. And they emphasised  that here it 
was over a period of months that they had to bear the extra costs.
I havent seen  that UKI paid double for a disturbance allowance in the previous claim. 
Importantly for me, during  this claim,  apart from the error I highlighted provisionally  regarding 
how Mr and Mrs Fs adult  son was categorised,  UKI paid the allowance at what I consider to 
be a normal and reasonable  rate. And Ive seen no reason  that would make me think it 
should have paid it at a higher rate (excepting  what Ive said about the adult son).  Even if 
UKI had paid it at a higher  rate before  that would not tie it to having to make  payments like 
that again. Nor would  I expect it to have  to explain why it was paying  a different rate, from 
what it had paid before,  during this claim. Simply put  that was then and this is now. The 
question for me was did it pay a fair and reasonable disturbance allowance during this claim 
 and Ive given my answer on that in my provisional  findings, my view in respect of which 
has not changed.
babys health
I said provisionally:
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs Fs baby suffered  during  this claim. I understand that 
Mr and Mr F feel his health condition was caused because  he was exposed  to mould at an 
early age when  the family, during March, April and May 2018 had to live in the damp house. 
Ive considered the medical report provided by Mr and Mrs F. I can see that this concludes 
the baby likely has a severe allergy to mould and that the family should take every 
precaution to avoid  exposing  him to the allergen. I see that whilst theyd come to suspect 
that this was the case in May 2018,  it was June 2018 when their concerns were  confirmed 
by a registrar working under a consultant  neonatologist,  who then provided the report. But 
the report doesnt conclude or even suggest  what the likely root cause of the allergy is.
Even if it was shown that exposure at a young age had likely caused the allergy to manifest, 
I dont think this is something I could reasonably say UKI should have foreseen  as a 
Ref: DRN21859826possibility, meaning  it should have acted  to guard against it. And I see that once Mrs F 
raised her concerns  with it in May, after she began to believe that mould  was the cause of 
the babys health issues, UKI agreed to fund emergency hotel accommodation. Further 
accommodation costs  were then paid, even  though  the policy  limit had been exceeded and 
even though in October/November 2018 UKI felt the house was generally habitable. So 
whilst I understand Mr and Mrs F blaming UKI for this unfortunate health issue,  Im not 
persuaded that it is likely  its fault,  and I think it has responded reasonably to the situation as 
its presented itself and as the claim progressed. Id add again here, I am only considering 
events up to the end of January 2019. 
In response Mr and Mrs F said UKI has never  taken their babys health and medical  
condition seriously.  They said it had undermined it at every  turn, even mocking it.
Mr and Mrs F said they should have been  moved  out immediately  when thered been  a 
small leak from a radiator  the year before, before the baby was born, theyd been moved out 
immediately in line with standard  safety  procedures but that had not happened here. They  
said UKI had accepted  it had been  wrong to not move  them out  so how could I say 
differently, especially as Mrs F had been raising concerns about her own health throughout. 
Moreover, they said, their claims  handler  had been  aware that theyd been moved out of 
their home following the radiator leak because of difficulties Mrs F, who had been pregnant 
at that time, had with breathing.
There is no standard or rule which says when a leak occurs a home is immediately 
considered to be uninhabitable and any residents must be moved out. However,  when a 
home is lacking its basic  facilities, or in some cases where these are limited in some way if 
still partially functioning, it is often considered to be uninhabitable. And when a home is 
uninhabitable we would expect an insurer to offer alternative accommodation. But it cant  
force a policyholder to move  out, even if it was made aware of health concerns  which  
I havent seen  UKI was here until May 2018.  But I do see that in April 2018 Mrs F had 
brokered a deal with UKI in respect of plumbing work on the basis they had chosen  to stay in 
their home and thereby saved UKI the cost of alternative accommodation. So I dont think 
that even they were  aware, at that time, that the property posed a risk to their babys health, 
or that theyd felt they needed  to move out because Mrs Fs own health  was suffering. 
I know Mrs F says she was told, at one point, after shed begun  to have concerns over the 
babys health,  that she should  just take the baby home. But it isnt clear to me when that 
conversation took place   Im mindful that the complaint about whether the family should 
move home or not progressed during 2019,  outside of the remit of my consideration. In 
respect of the early  months of the claim, UKI hasnt  been able to find any recordings of 
phone calls, so I havent been  able to hear what was said by both parties. But, as I explained 
provisionally, UKIs file notes show that once Mrs F drew  concerns about her babys health 
to its attention in May 2018, it acted  to provide accommodation because of that. 
claim handling and delay
I said provisionally:
Its clear  to me there was a mix-up  with the payment  for the hotel booking  in February which  
resulted in the family having  difficulty with the hotelier.  I know the family had to move around  
a lot too. As I said above I think the accommodation  situation, including the payment of 
disturbance allowance, could have been handled better. Im satisfied  that a lot of stress and 
worry was caused  to Mr and Mrs F because it wasnt.
Ref: DRN21859827UKI has accepted  that there  was poor communication and a lack of professionalism at times 
during this claim. It also accepts there have been delays. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs F had to chase UKI a lot. Whilst  stripping and drying  of the 
property should  have begun in May 2018   UKI told Mr and Mrs F it had no contractors 
available until September and tasked  them with finding a contractor. Mr and Mrs F found that 
difficult, when  they told UKI it managed to find contractors to do the work. The property was 
stripped by the end of July and dry by the end of August 2018.  
It was then estimated  the reinstatement  would complete in around four weeks.  But this was 
later revised to early  November, and it was around then that the problems with the kitchen 
became apparent. It was the end of November before UKI accepted the kitchen  needed 
replacing. Ive seen no good  reason for the period of work extending as it did. Regarding  the 
kitchen; UKIs contractor had clearly  carried out poor work and gave UKI poor advice about 
the need for the kitchen  to be replaced. I think the claim over these months could and should 
have been condensed. I think UKI undoubtedly  caused delays  and I accept this was 
upsetting and frustrating for Mr and Mrs F. 
Im aware that UKI has paid a total of £1,000 compensation so far for the upset caused  to 
29 January 2019.  I think that shows UKI genuinely  accepts that it failed Mr and Mrs F and 
that it has intended to do what it can to put that right.  But Im not persuaded that goes far 
enough in the circumstances here. I think fair and reasonable compensation totals £2,000.  
Mr and Mrs F said I was wrong about the kitchen  they had witnessed  UKIs claims handler 
deny the contractors request for a replacement. They had also first raised concerns about 
the state of the kitchen in the summer. They  felt I cant have investigated this properly or 
I wouldnt have concluded that the contractor had misled UKI or that the problems with the 
kitchen only became apparent in early November.  They said I had not mentioned what  they 
felt was constant mental abuse from UKI, designed to wear  them  down and make them give 
up. Mr and Mrs F said that £2,000 for everything theyd been through  wasnt in anyway 
sufficient and only an apology and a department held properly to account  would  be likely to 
ensure that any change  for the better  within UKI actually occurred.
In the contemporaneous  evidence Ive seen the state of the kitchen isnt mentioned until 
early November. It may well be that it was discussed  before  that  but Ive seen nothing that 
makes me think that is likely the case.  And when UKI did begin to look into it in November its 
records show that the condition was initially down-played by the contractor and it was only 
following Mr and Mrs F providing photos  that the claim handler accepted the work needed 
resolving. This then led to concerns about  damage  the kitchen had sustained  during drying.  
Whilst I wasnt privy to the on-site  discussions regarding this, and which Mr and Mrs F have 
referred to, UKI did eventually agree  to replace the kitchen. In any event, UKI is responsible 
for the state of the kitchen   and for the delays  in resolving that which,  Im satisfied, had a 
knock-on effect  on the claim as a whole.  I highlighted what Id seen from UKIs  records (that 
the contractor had misled  UKI, which Mr and Mrs F wouldnt have  been  aware  of) because it 
evidenced what I felt was the start of the delay and that UKI was responsible for it. 
This service is not the regulator,  so I cant make findings with a view to holding UKI, or any 
of its departments to account for what went on, or make awards with a view to generating 
change. I appreciate how Mr and Mrs F have felt during this on-going claim. And, as Ive 
said, I do think UKI failed them at times. But I dont see anything that makes me think UKI 
set out to fail them  or to avoid dealing with them, or to make decisions that had a malintent 
Ref: DRN21859828behind them. UKI failed them and theyve clearly  suffered as a result  my findings and 
award, in my view,  for the period I am considering, fairly and reasonably reflect  that. 
To clarify, as mentioned  in my background above, for the period up to its final response of 
28 January 2019,  UKI paid a total of £1,200 compensation. I remain satisfied that a total of 
£2,000 compensation is fairly  and reasonably  due to Mr and Mrs F for the distress  and 
inconvenience they suffered during this time due to UKIs failures. Im going to require it to 
pay the £800 outstanding.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs F:
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on every accommodation cost Mr and Mrs F incurred 
from the date they incurred  it until reimbursement was made.
An amount  equivalent  to £25 a night across the period the family stayed in a holiday 
home in August/September 2018, plus interest* from the date they paid for the holiday 
home until settlement  is made.
£350 as a further disturbance allowance for their adult son.
An amount  equivalent  to interest*  on the total disturbance allowance  amount, paid 
previously and now due, for the period May  August 2018, from 29 May 2018 until 
settlement is made.
A further  £800  in compensation (making total compensation paid by it for upset caused 
during the period subject of this complaint, £2,000).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If U K Insurance 
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs F, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and Mrs F a certificate  showing this if they ask for one, so they 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2185982