K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps resident is in mainland Europe.  Their complaint is that Blevins Franks  
Financial Management  Limited (BFFM) failed  to give them  advice on the tax implications 
arising from the transfer of their investment bond. 
background
Mr and Mrs P obtained BFFMs advice in 2014. The advice took place outside  the UK, 
however BFFM consent to our voluntary jurisdiction which provides the basis  for this service 
to consider the complaint.  The financial planning  report (which  made  the investment 
recommendation) says Mr and Mrs Ps objective were to reduce  tax liabilities from its current 
level whilst maintaining their standard of living outside the UK. Also, to have tax efficient 
investments in the context of their residency  at the time and, prospectively, in the context of 
the UK residency in the event that they were to return to the UK in the future. In addition,  the 
document reflects that they wanted  tax efficient income and tax efficient capital growth.  
The present  complaint is that BFFMs advice failed to address Mr and Mrs Ps tax liability 
arising from the transfer of their investment bond  they say it was implicit that such advice 
was required but BFFM  failed to give it. 
BFFM disputes the present complaint.  In summary,  it says the financial planning report  did 
advise that there may be tax consequences  on the surrender of their existing bond, so it 
recommended Mr and Mrs P seek separate advice from their accountant. It says it made 
Mr and Mr P aware that tax liability should only apply on the gain element  realised  annually  
and they had confirmed they were paying tax on their worldwide income and gains at their 
place of residency  since 2010. And Mr and Mrs P had signed the investment instruction 
letter which confirmed they read and understood the financial planning report. 
Mr and Mrs P were  unhappy with BFFMs response, so they brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  considered what had happened but he didnt think  BFFM  needed to 
do anymore. He thought BFFM had made it clear that the investment bond  was taxable each 
year on unrealised gains  at their place of residency.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed. They say BFFM made no attempt  to find out what tax liabilities 
were involved  with the bond transfer  despite letting  BFFM know  about their previous 
underpayment of tax. They say it was BFFMs  only interest to maximise  the size of their 
investment for its own profit. They also say BFFM  shouldve calculated the potential debt, so 
they could have reduced their investment and paid their tax liabilities  sooner. Mr and Mrs P 
would like 33,922.84  Euros  to compensate for their loss. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I recognise 
Mr and Mrs Ps strength of feeling about  this matter, and I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Ref: DRN28810632BFFM has provided  us with the financial planning  report. This is a detailed document which  
sets out the basis  of its recommendations.  The report  says, as the existing bond is 
unapproved in their place  of residence  the unrealised  gain is liable to tax each year,  and in 
surrendering it for reinvestment the gain since the 1st January of the year of surrender  is 
taxable. We therefore recommend that you should speak to your tax accountant who will 
guide you as to how to report this gain to the tax authorities.  Mr and Mrs P say BFFM  failed 
to advise on the tax liability  arising from the transfer  of their investment bond.   
BFFM gave advice, some of that advice  involved  surrendering a bond which wasnt 
approved in Spain. As a result, it specifically told them how this bond would be treated in 
Spain, that a tax charge was likely and that they ought to speak to an accountant in order  to 
be able to report the gain to the authorities. Mr and Mrs P didnt do this. They  assumed that 
this paragraph  meant  that any gains prior to 1st January were  ignored, and only gains from 
1st January to February (when they surrendered  the bond) would be taxed, so the tax 
amount would be small. I dont think this assumption  was reasonable as BFFM did nothing to 
make them think that or make that assumption. 
So, taking everything  into account it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask BFFM  to 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for a tax charge which it had no responsibility over  and which  it 
had specifically informed  them would be payable. It couldnt have known what  Mr and Mrs P 
had reported to the relevant authorities  in the past  and Im satisfied the paragraph in which 
it informs them how the surrender would  be treated  by the relevant authorities is clear.  
I note Mr and Mrs P refer to separate matters  not connected to this advice to illustrate the 
lack of proper  advice BFFM offer. We look at each complaint on an individual  basis. And 
based on the circumstances here in this complaint, I dont think  BFFM did anything  wrong, 
so I dont consider  it would be fair and reasonable to ask it to pay compensation. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P will be unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusions as the 
investigator and I realise my decision isnt what they want  to hear. But based  the available  
evidence, Im unable  to tell BFFM to do anymore.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 February  2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2881063