K822xcomplaint
A, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc delayed its international payments 
resulting in inconvenience and business disruption.
background 
A wanted to send  international  payments  from its HSBC account to a supplier abroad.  A 
attempted to make  them  using online banking. But HSBCs system did not allow a choice of 
intermediary bank which meant that the payments were not processed properly. HSBC paid 
A £150 for the inconvenience caused and said that A would need to make payments over 
the telephone and that the charge  would  be kept the same  as that for online payments. A 
then tried to make a payment through telephone banking. This was also held up. When the 
complaint was referred to this service  HSBC offered to pay A a further £300 and to pay 
simple interest on the money for the time it was delayed.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do more than it had now offered to. He said 
he thought that the amount originally paid to A was a fair response to the problems sending  
payments with online banking. But a payment using the new arrangement on 28 November 
2018 was also held up. This was while HSBC made checks. But HSBC  accepted  that it 
could have asked  A for information  about  this payment earlier.  And so, rather than being 
released on 17 December  2018,  it could have  been  available on 30 November 2018. He did 
not think that HSBC  could  fairly  be responsible for any consequential  losses and he thought 
HSBCs offer was reasonable.
A did not agree. It said that it had wasted many hours of time calling everyday about the 
delayed payments. This has caused  hardship  and stress for the director.  It wanted to be 
compensated for this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A has stated  on its complaint form that it now understands  the problem to be with payments 
sent in sterling.  These cannot be processed  by the intermediary bank selected  by default 
online for the beneficiary details involved.  I know that this affected an original payment for 
£2,000 in September 2018  which  was then returned. And that the director of A was told to 
select a specific intermediary code.  But that this seemed to be overridden on a further 
payment and the director still needed to contact  HSBC  about this.
HSBC sent a final response to this complaint on 26 November 2018. And so the director 
telephoned HSBC  on 28 November 2018 to arrange  a payment. Ive listened  to a recording 
of that call and no issues seemed  to be identified. A had not been  given  a payment 
reference number  during  the call. As the amount had been  debited  A thought it had gone 
through. But it contacted HSBC on 5 December 2018 several times when it realised it hadnt. 
And HSBC  accepts A called further on numerous  occasions. It seems to me that it was the 
involvement of the HSBC  complaints team that resulted in the payment being  returned on 17 
December 2018.  And then A was able to resend it the next day.
Ref: DRN23431602I understand that these payments were for food items for onward sale although they had a 
long shelf life. And that those goods  which were  expected to arrive in four weeks by ship 
would have been delayed by at least three  weeks.
There are two main issues here.  First a suitable intermediary bank could not be selected 
online. And A was caused inconvenience until this became clear. And second even when a 
workaround solution  was put in place a payment was still delayed  it seems for further 
issues.
I dont think that HSBC could reasonably have foreseen the impact of the problems with the 
online payments  for A. And it attempted to find a solution. And even when the workaround  
was in place that didnt  mean HSBC couldnt  still decide it needed further  information  or 
checks about payments.  So there was no guarantee when any funds would be made  
available to the beneficiary overseas. I agree with the investigator that in the circumstances 
here HSBC  is not responsible for any consequential  business losses. The award  of eight per 
cent simple interest  does  in any event seek to compensate A for being  deprived of this later 
payment and I think that this is a reasonable response.
A is a separate legal entity  to the director. So we can only consider the effect on it - not on 
the director personally. And a company cannot suffer  distress.  I intend here to look,  as we 
typically do, at what  I think is the overall inconvenience and not at specific hours of time. The 
total of such compensation now offered for everything that happened  is £450. I think  thats 
fair. The thing Im going to also require is that the charges relating to any failed payments 
that were credited back to the bank  account and had to be resent  should  be refunded. Im 
not clear from the bank  statement for A, that such a refund happened for example with its 
payment on 10 September 2018 which was returned on 20 September  2018.  It was then 
made again on 24 September 2018  with a further charge of £17. 
I appreciate that the director of A will be disappointed with my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to:
1)Pay A a further  £300 in compensation (making a total of £450).
2)Pay A simple interest of eight percent on £10,000 for the dates from 30 November 
2018 to 17 December 2018  inclusive.
3)Refund any charges  for international payments made that were then returned back to 
As bank account  between 10 September 2018 and 18 December 2018  if this has not 
already been done. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2343160