K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as Quick  Quid (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in November 2018. I have included a copy  of my 
provisional decision as part of this final decision.
To summarise, Quick Quid agreed  three  loans  for Miss L  two in September  2017 and one 
that December.  The loans were for total amounts of £400, £800 and £650 and were  of 
varying terms. 
Miss L says that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to lend to her because it should  have  realised 
from the number  of times she borrowed that she had debt problems, which  were  worsening.  
She says that her credit  report would have shown  the extent of her existing debt, including  
late payments and defaults.  
Quick Quid disagrees that it was irresponsible to lend to Miss L as it says it carried  out 
appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments. Furthermore it argued that it wasnt  
wrong to have lent to Miss L because all of its loans agreed after 1 March 2015  were 
responsibly lent as it was fully authorised by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  by that 
point.
my provisional decision
I provisionally concluded that:
I could not automatically reject  Miss Ls complaint  about  her loans solely  on the basis 
of Quick Quids FCA authorisation. I said that
It doesnt  follow that a firm cannot  have treated any consumer unfairly simply 
because it has been authorised and is regulated  by the FCA. This assumes  
that an authorised  firms regulated activities are always  implemented  in a way 
that results in fair outcomes for all consumers. This is not the case,  as the 
experience of this Service bears out.1
    
the FCA is not prescriptive about  how the relevant rules and guidance set 
out in [the Consumer Credit Handbook] CONC should be implemented, 
specifically CONC does  not set out how a lender ought to go about its 
affordability assessment   And so I cannot  pre-judge Miss Ls complaint 
about irresponsible lending on the basis that the affordability check 
Quick Quid carried out was the right thing to do in her case.
 there are also other considerations which this Service  is required  to take 
into account when  making determinations on complaints. As the FCA 
Handbook sets out in the rules and guidance relevant to dispute  handing:
1 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN22012902The Ombudsman  will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, 
in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the 
case.  (DISP 3.6.1R)
So, I am required to consider more than the rules and guidance set out by 
the regulators in making  my determination  on a complaint. And so I would not 
be acting in accordance with my statutory role if I only considered the extent 
to which  Quick Quid complied with rules and guidance set out by the FCA in 
my determination.
Quick Quid didnt  carry out proportionate  checks when Miss L applied  for her second 
and third loans. Given the circumstances of the loans and what it ought to have 
known of her credit  commitments from the credit check, Quick Quid should have 
gathered more information about  Miss Ls circumstances  before agreeing  to lend to 
her. And, had it done  so, it would likely  have  learnt that these two loans were  
unaffordable for her and would  not have agreed  to them.  So it was irresponsible to 
have lent in these  instances.
Quick Quids response to my provisional decision
Quick Quid did not agree with my provisional  decision. In its response, it didnt comment on 
my conclusion that being regulated by the FCA was not a guarantee that all of its loans 
agreed after 1 March 2015 were  responsibly  lent. I assume from this that the lender has 
accepted my explanation and this point is no longer in dispute. 
Quick Quid did provide some further  information for me to consider, including more detail 
about its lending  process. Quick Quid  said that its lending process included a customer  
declaration that acknowledged when a loan repayment was greater than the customers  
estimated disposable income, along with a suggestion that they save  to meet  the repayment. 
Quick Quid said in relation to Miss Ls third loan that: 
Miss [L] was set to receive both her December and January wages within  the loan term, 
which would have allowed her additional  disposable  income to account  for the repayment 
that was scheduled on 26/01/2018.
And Quick  Quid provided more figures specific to Miss Ls case, in particular what it calls 
CRA validated  figures  for Miss Ls stated other credit commitments.  It said it checked the 
figures Miss L provided at the time of lending  for her credit commitments and increased 
these where the Credit  Reference Agency (CRA) report contained a higher  figure.  It also 
provided a monthly  Estimated Disposable Income  figure for loan 3. The table below 
summarises some of this new information.
Loan 
numberStated              
'other credit 
commitments'CRA-
validated 
figureTotal cost 
of loanLoan 
term  in 
monthsLoan cost 
% of EDIMonthly 
EDI
1 £450 £450
2 £450 £450
3 £450 £1,621 £216.40 1.4 16% £993
Ref: DRN22012903my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including responses to my provisional 
decision. As before, I have also taken into account  the law, any relevant regulatory  rules and 
good industry practice at the time. 
I appreciate that this is going to be disappointing for Quick Quid but having carefully 
considered what  it has said in response to my provisional decision, I am still of the view that 
it should not have agreed  Miss Ls second  or third loans. I will not repeat  everything Ive said 
in my provisional decision (this is set out later in this document) but I will respond to its 
specific objections.
saving to meet repayments 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Quick Quid should have gathered  more  
information and evidence about Miss Ls circumstances before agreeing her second or third 
loans. And, had it done so, it was likely to have found out that after paying her rent and 
meeting existing credit commitments, Miss L had about £500 left each month  to meet  normal 
living costs.  I said that:
Miss Ls rent and long term loan commitments  came to about  £1,575  a month.  As 
mentioned above,  I dont  know  exactly  how much  Miss L would have spent  servicing her 
credit card debts  a conservative estimate of 2% a month would amount to £700.  Including 
this figure  leaves Miss L with a little over £500 out of her normal monthly income  to cover 
any usual living costs  such as food, transport and bills.
Miss Ls second loan was for £800 and she needed  to repay  this in three instalments of 
£256, £186 and £979. Quick Quid says that where  the final payment of a loan exceeds  the 
validated estimated disposable  income for that last month, the customer  must read and 
check a box that advises them of the fact that they may need to save income from the 
previous months  in order to have sufficient funds  to pay the final payment. 
The declaration states:
By checking this box you acknowledge  you can afford to make a repayment  of [£X] on 
[date] and [£Y] on [date]. You acknowledge that you understand your final repayment is 
greater than you[r] normal disposable  income and you may need to save  money over the life 
of the loan in order  to make the final repayment out of disposable income. 
Quick Quid hasnt provided a figure for the validated estimated disposable income for 
Miss Ls second loan so I dont know if the final payment  for this loan exceeded this amount. 
Even assuming it did, I dont know the context within which  this declaration  appeared or how 
prominent it was. But irrespective of this, advising Miss L that she may need  to take some 
action in order to be able to make  a repayment that is more than the money  she would 
usually have available to her does not take away Quick Quids  own responsibility to assess  
whether or not the loan was going  to be sustainably affordable for her. 
If Quick Quid felt that in Miss Ls case shed need to take some  action to meet  her loan 
repayments as they fell due, this suggests  that it understood that there  was a risk that she 
would not be able repay her loan the way it was structured unless remedial action was put in 
place. It then left this to Miss L to address. It didnt, for example,  offer to structure the loan 
Ref: DRN22012904repayments to reflect  its expectations of Miss Ls money management. I note that Miss L 
took out her second loan the day after she repaid her first, which doesnt suggest  to me that 
she had recourse to spare  funds.
I can accept that in some circumstances,  where  the shortfall in disposable income is small, it 
might be reasonable  to proceed with an application on the basis that the additional cost of 
the final large loan repayment (balloon  payment) could be met without difficulty  by some 
level of surplus or saving  from previous  months.  
But in this case, the total repayments for the loan (£1,421) took up almost all of Miss Ls 
disposable income (after rent and credit  repayments) over the loan term, and this is without 
considering that she had other normal living costs, such  as food, to pay over this time. So, 
foreseeably, Miss L was not likely to be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way, in other 
words without experiencing financial  difficulty. Quick Quid ought to have recognised this and, 
as a responsible  lender, shouldnt have  agreed to the loan. 
Miss L took out her third loan about  two weeks after repaying her second.  This was to be 
repaid after 42 days with a single repayment  of £866. Quick  Quid  says that in this time 
Miss L would  have received two wage packets.  Firstly, I dont know  the dates Miss Ls 
monthly salary was paid and Quick Quid hasnt provided any supporting  information  on this 
point so Ive concluded this is an assumption  on its part. But, even assuming this was the 
case, as Ive concluded above, I think Miss L had about £500  a month disposable  income, 
once her rent and credit commitments  were  met. The loan term was 42 days or 1.4 months  
as Quick Quid calculates it. On a pro-rata basis, one could argue this means  Miss L had 
about £700 disposable income over the term of the loan. This still doesnt  render  the loan 
affordable.
This brings  me to the new information Quick Quid provided. Firstly, the CRA  information it 
received shows that Miss Ls monthly credit commitments had increased considerably by the 
time she applied  for her third loan. Even without knowing this Id concluded the lender ought 
to have done more in its assessment before agreeing to this loan. Just taking into account  
Miss Ls salary of £2,800, her rent of over £1,000 plus this new figure of £1,671 for credit 
commitments and assuming some  nominal amount of other normal living costs such as food 
and transport means Miss L wouldnt have anything left over to meet any level of loan 
repayment. 
estimated disposable income figures
Quick Quid provided a figure of £993 for Miss Ls Monthly Estimated Disposable Income 
around the time of her third loan. It says the figures  we used took into account the CRA 
Validated Other Credit Commitments figure, Miss [L]s monthly  stated income and her 
monthly expenses/credit commitments she provided at the time of application. 
As set out in my provisional  decision, Miss Ls stated monthly costs came to £925, which 
included an amount of £450 for her other  credit  commitments.   Substituting the higher figure 
of £1,671 for this expense yields a new monthly cost of £2,146.  With an income of £2,800, 
this means a monthly disposable income  of £654.  I dont know  how Quick  Quid  calculated a 
higher monthly  disposable income  and the lender hasnt clarified this, despite my repeated 
requests for an explanation. 
But from what Quick Quid says it seems  it continued  to rely on what  Miss L told it about her 
expenses when she applied for her third loan. And, as I explained in my provisional decision,  
Ref: DRN22012905it should have  gone beyond this reliance at this stage in their lending  relationship.  And had it 
done so, it would likely have found out that Miss Ls monthly costs  were higher, in particular 
her rent, and would not have agreed  to lend to her a third time.
what Quick Quid should  do to put things right
Ive concluded  that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree Miss Ls second and third loans 
taken out on the 16th of September  and the 15th of December 2017  respectively, with 
additional funds  granted on her third loan on the 16th of December.
In order to put Miss L back  in the position she would have been  in, had it not agreed these, 
Quick Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges (including  late fees and default interest) Miss L paid for 
these loans;
-pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement;
-remove any adverse information about these loans from her credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick  Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that there is a balance remaining on Miss Ls third loan. Quick  Quid  should 
remove any outstanding  interest owing from this and if there is a capital balance left when 
this is done, it can use the above  refund to offset this capital balance. 
I would remind Quick  Quid  of its obligation  to deal with Miss L fairly and sympathetically  in 
the event that an outstanding capital balance remains after it has offset the above  refund. I 
note that Quick Quid said in its response  to this Service that it was willing to set up a feasible 
payment plan with Miss L for this loan. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Miss Ls 
complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading as Quick Quid to make things right for 
her as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22012906COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss L has complained  about  short-term loans  granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC trading  as 
Quick Quid   (Quick  Quid  or the lender).
background
Quick Quid  agreed three loans for Miss L  two in September 2017 and one that December. The 
loans were for total amounts of £400,  £800 and £650 and were of varying terms. I understand there is 
an outstanding balance on the last loan.
Miss L says that Quick Quid was irresponsible to lend to her because it should  have realised from the 
number of times she borrowed that she had debt problems, which were worsening. She says that her 
credit report would have shown the extent of her existing debt, including late payments and defaults.  
Quick Quid  disagrees  that it was irresponsible to lend to Miss L as it says it carried out appropriate 
and proportionate affordability assessments. The lender said that Miss L had repaid her first two loans 
early and that three loans in total was a low number  to have borrowed and it didnt exhibit financial 
dependency. It also said that Miss L had never notified  it of any financial hardship.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Ls complaint be upheld.  Miss L didnt  accept  this 
recommendation and so the case  has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when Quick Quid  lent to Miss L. The FCAs  
Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards which  all authorised firms are 
required to comply  with. PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must pay due regard to the interests  of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
Quick Quid.  At the time, September 2017, these required  lenders to take reasonable  steps to assess  
the customers ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a sustainable 
manner without  the customer incurring financial  difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  
consequences.  - CONC 5.3.1G(2). 
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  defined sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty. It 
went on to explain  that this means the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So  treating  customers  fairly  in the context of providing  credit meant assessing their ability to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way. And how should lenders  have gone about making these 
assessments?
CONC 5.2.3  G said that 
The extent and scope  of the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required  in a given 
case, should  be dependent upon and proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
Ref: DRN22012907(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications  that the customer  is  experiencing 
or has experienced  financial  difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in respect of 
other credit agreements,  consumer hire agreements,  regulated  mortgage contracts, 
payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications,  water and other major 
outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial  commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances  which  could  be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer,  in particular  where the firm understands  the customer 
has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects  this to be so because  
the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity  limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G(2)  said that
 A firm should consider  what is appropriate in any particular circumstances  dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit being  sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk 
of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for 
credit relative  to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.2.4G(3)  said that
A firm should consider  the types and sources of information to use in its  assessment  which  
may, depending on the circumstances,  include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;
(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
It is important to note here that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the assessment is to 
be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information  to use needed  to 
be enough to be able to reasonably  assess the sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.  
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit to its satisfaction,  but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the decision to 
lend. 
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer  might not be for another, or indeed what 
might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might  not be so for the same consumer  in 
other circumstances.  
so what  should have happened when Miss L applied  for credit and did Quick  Quid get this right? 
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance, the greater the potential  risk 
Ref: DRN22012908to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect 
a lender to seek more assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks
-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income; or
-the longer the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision  on Miss Ls case, I have considered the following questions:
did Quick Quid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing  
Miss Ls loan applications to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
oif not, would those  checks have shown that Miss L would have been able to do so? 
did Quick Quid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Having done so, Ive concluded that Quick Quid was irresponsible to agree  a second and third loan 
for Miss L because  although I find that it carried out a proportionate check  for her first loan, the 
information it gathered then and ought to have gathered later should have led it to decline subsequent 
loan applications. I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Quick  Quid and I will explain 
how Ive reached this conclusion.
did Quick  Quid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing  Miss Ls loan 
applications to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
Quick Quid  has explained  how it carried  out its assessment of Miss Ls loan application. It said In 
January 2015, much  before Miss [L] borrowed  her first loan, QuickQuid had implemented an 
affordability review that is consistent  with the FCA Handbook  and that was in place at the time we 
received authorisation  by the FCA. We confirm that this assessment was conducted properly and 
individually for each  of these  loans.
Quick Quid  seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes so that they were  consistent  
with the rules and regulations in place and was then fully authorised by the FCA before  lending to 
Miss L, that her loans must have been assessed properly  and so it acted responsibly in granting 
them. 
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow  that a firm cannot have  treated any consumer  
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes  that an 
authorised firms regulated activities are always implemented in a way that results in fair outcomes for 
all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service bears  out.2 
As Ive explained above, the FCA is not prescriptive about how the relevant  rules  and guidance set 
out in CONC should be implemented, specifically  CONC does not set out how a lender ought to go 
about its affordability assessment. The assessment that should be carried  out is dependent on what is 
appropriate for both the consumer and the loan in question.  So it doesnt  follow that a standard  
assessment, whatever the extent and scope of it or whatever the type and source of information it 
uses is automatically the right thing to do for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I cannot  pre-
judge Miss Ls complaint about irresponsible lending on the basis that the affordability check Quick  
Quid carried out was the right thing to do in her case. And I am not planning  to automatically  reject 
her complaint on this basis.
Further to this point, as Ive mentioned, there are also other considerations which this Service  is 
required to take into account  when making determinations  on complaints. As the FCA Handbook sets 
out in the rules  and guidance relevant to dispute handing The Ombudsman will determine  
2 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN22012909a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. (DISP 3.6.1R)
And DISP 3.6.4R goes on to explain that
In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the Ombudsman will 
take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice  at the relevant 
time.
So, I am required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators  in making 
my determination on a complaint. And so I would not be acting in accordance  with my statutory role if 
I only considered  the extent to which Quick  Quid complied with rules and guidance set out by the FCA 
in my determination. 
Moving on to the specifics of this complaint, Quick Quid says that it asked Miss L for her income and 
expenses when she applied for each of her loans. In addition, the lender says it used a third-party 
credit reference agency  (CRA) to validate these figures, specifically that it compare[s] the expense  
figures to average  expense data published by the Office of National Statistics (ONS). Where material 
discrepancies are found, we request the customers bank statement to further evaluate their 
incomings and outgoings.
Quick Quid  explained that Miss L said her monthly income was £2,800 and her monthly  expenses  
were £925.  These  were  broken down into the following monthly expense categories:
Housing £250
Utility £75
Transport £50
Food £75
Other credit  commitments £450
Other expenses £25
Total expenses £925
It seems from Quick  Quids records  that it carried out a credit check and other checks through  a CRA 
each time Miss L applied for a loan. Quick  Quid hasnt provided the results of these checks, or any 
comment on them, so I dont know exactly what  it saw. 
Miss L has provided a recent  copy of her credit file to this Service and it doesnt show any county  
court judgements or defaults. It does however  show that Miss L had significant existing  financial 
commitments which, as I will go on to explain,  I think Quick Quid  ought  to have taken into 
consideration when making its lending decisions. 
Miss Ls first loan was for £400 to be repaid in two instalments of £54 and £4963. Shed told the lender 
her existing credit commitments came to £450. I can see from her credit file that she had over 
£35,000 of credit card debt over several  cards, which I think  Quick Quid  would  have seen when it 
carried out its checks  as this is the level showing on her file the month before it agreed this loan. 
Miss L would have needed  to repay 1% of the outstanding  balance on her credit cards, plus interest 
and fees4. So even if some of this credit was on a zero interest basis, I think its reasonable to 
assume that Miss Ls monthly credit card repayments alone came to more  than £450.  
3 I have rounded figures to the nearest pound.
Ref: DRN220129010Also of note is that Miss L had taken out a guarantor loan for £5,000 in July 2017 with monthly 
repayments of almost £500. This first appears on her credit file in September  2017 so I cant say for 
sure whether or not Quick Quids checks in September would have picked this up  on balance I think  
its more likely  that it wouldnt have known about this yet. Miss L was borrowing relatively large  
amounts from another  payday  lender  at this time, though it seems  she had always repaid these 
before taking loans from Quick Quid. 
Altogether, even  assuming Miss Ls monthly credit  card commitments came  to more than the amount 
she had stated, given that this was her first loan and bearing in mind  the information she provided  
about her income and expenditure and the size of the loan repayments, Ive concluded it wasnt 
unreasonable for Quick  Quid to think Miss L would be able to afford  to repay this first loan without 
difficulty. To clarify - I am not finding  that this loan was in fact affordable for Miss L but that based on 
the circumstances and the information  Quick Quid had, it wasnt unreasonable for it to agree  to lend 
on this occasion. In the event, Miss L repaid  this loan in full six days  later and paid less than £20 in 
interest.
Quick Quid  says that Miss L repaid her first and second  loans before the contractual due date and 
that Miss [L] was not struggling to cover her payments but rather she had the financial means to 
repay early. Typically a consumer experiencing financial  difficulty would  default  on a payment or 
request more time before  they make early payments. I appreciate that Miss L repaid her first two 
loans early. However, this doesnt automatically  mean  that she managed to repay  them in a 
sustainable manner, in other words without having to borrow again to make up the gap this left in her 
funds, borrow from elsewhere or go without. 
The day after Miss L repaid her first loan she took out her second.  This was for £800, double the 
amount of her first. She needed to repay this in three instalments of £256,  £186 and £979.  Given  
these circumstances  and what I think Quick Quid was likely to have known of Miss Ls existing credit 
commitments at this point (her credit card repayments and her existing loan),  I think  the lender  
needed to do more  here to satisfy itself that she would  be able to meet  its loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner. It could have brought these concerns  to Miss L and asked more  questions  of her. 
It could have  asked for evidence of income  and expenditure,  for example bank  statements, payslips,  
rent or bill records etc. But, however it proceeded, I dont think it was fair to have continued to assess  
Miss Ls application on the basis  of the same level of checks it had carried  out for her first loan. 
Miss L applied  for her third loan within a couple of weeks of repaying her second. This was for £400, 
which I understand was to be repaid in one amount of £534. Quick  Quid agreed to an additional £250 
the next day, bringing the amount Miss L would need to repay to £866, also to be repaid in one 
instalment. As before, I think it would have been reasonable of Quick  Quid to gather more information 
and verify it in order to assess the risk to Miss L of her being unable to meet these repayments in a 
sustainable manner.
In summary, I dont think the checks Quick  Quid carried out were proportionate for Miss Ls second or 
third loans. So Ive gone on to consider the consequences of this for her.
what would reasonable and proportionate checks more likely than not have shown?
Miss L hasnt provided  this Service with her bank  statements. But she has explained  something of her 
financial situation. It seems  she entered a debt management plan with a national debt management  
advice charity in early 2018 and has provided a list of creditors  and existing commitments to be 
included in this plan. These match  her credit file commitments but also include many short-term 
lenders, store cards  and an overdraft, all of which amounted to over £54,500 of unsecured debts.  
4 CONC 6.7.5R(1) said that A firm must  set the minimum required repayment under a regulated credit 
agreement for a credit card or a store card at an amount equal to at least that amount which repays the interest, 
fees and charges  that have been applied to the customer's account, plus one percentage of the amount  
outstanding.
Ref: DRN220129011Miss L told us about her usual monthly expenses, which includes an amount of £1,050 for her rent. 
She provided a screen  shot of her monthly standing order for the rental payment to her local council 
and explained that her rent to the council  has remained  the same for the last twenty months as shes 
lived in various housing association homes within the same area. She also told this Service that her 
income was approximately  £2,800,  which is what she told Quick Quid. (I understand that Miss L also 
receives a quarterly  bonus  which  she says is performance-dependent, so I havent considered this as 
part of her normal income because it wasnt a guaranteed payment.) 
Based on these figures, Miss Ls rent and long term loan commitments5 came to about  £1,575 a 
month. As mentioned above,  I dont know exactly how much Miss L would have spent servicing her 
credit card debts  a conservative estimate of 2% a month would amount to £700. Including this figure 
leaves Miss L with a little over £500 out of her normal monthly income to cover any usual living costs 
such as food,  transport and bills. So I dont think its likely that Miss L would  have been able to repay  
her second  and third loans  in a sustainable way. I think its likely Quick Quid would have understood 
this had it carried out proportionate affordability assessments. And, as a responsible lender, it would  
not have agreed these  loans.
did Quick  Quid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
From the information I have  available,  it seems Miss L didnt borrow from Quick  Quid after December 
2017. I understand that Miss L hadnt made any repayments on her third loan as of March  of this year. 
I dont know what, if anything, has happened between Quick Quid  and Miss L since then. But she 
hasnt raised  any issues of complaint about  Quick  Quid, other  than the unaffordability of its loans and 
their negative impact  on her. And I havent  seen  anything else in the information  I have available to 
me which has prompted  further investigation at this point.
what Quick Quid  should do to put things  right
Ive concluded that Quick  Quid was irresponsible to agree  Miss Ls second and third loans taken out 
on the 16th of September  and the 15th of December  2017 respectively, with additional funds granted 
on her third loan on the 16th of December.
In order  to put Miss L back in the position she would  have  been in, had it not agreed these, Quick  
Quid should:  
-refund all interest  and charges (including late fees and default interest) Miss L paid for these 
loans;
-pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the dates of 
settlement;
-remove  any adverse information about these loans  from her credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid  must give 
Miss L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I understand that there is a balance remaining  on Miss Ls third loan.  Quick Quid  should  remove any 
outstanding interest owing from this and if there is a capital  balance left when this is done, it can use 
the above  refund to offset this capital  balance. 
I would remind Quick Quid  of its obligation  to deal with Miss L fairly  and sympathetically  in the event 
that an outstanding capital balance  remains  after it has offset the above refund. I note that Quick Quid  
said in its response  to this Service that it was willing to set up a feasible payment plan with Miss L for 
this loan. 
5 Miss Ls rent and guarantor loan came to about £1,550 a month.  Alongside  her guarantor  loan, 
Miss L also had a long-term loan from a high street  bank which cost £25 a month.  
Ref: DRN220129012my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Miss Ls complaint for the reasons given above and require  
CashEuroNet UK LLC trading as Quick Quid to put things right as Ive set out. 
Ill wait a month to see if either party has anything  further  to add  before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2201290