K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that UK Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined a claim under his motor  
insurance policy for damage to his car following an accident. He also complains about its 
handling of the claim.
background
In January 2019 Mr H made a claim when his car was involved in an accident whereby his 
car had collided with another car. UKI sent an investigator to visit Mr H because of concerns 
about the circumstances of the claim and, because  of inconsistencies  in Mr Hs account,  he 
was interviewed on three  separate  occasions.
In February 2019,  Mr H complained to UKI about  how long it was taking to investigate  the 
claim. He was also concerned that there were no local approved  garages  and UKI had 
asked him not to call while the investigation  was ongoing.
In April 2019, UKI told Mr H the claim would  be declined.  It also said the policy would be 
cancelled and that it would notify  the relevant authorities and share  details of the 
cancellation with the fraud  prevention agencies. It said it wasnt satisfied Mr H was driving  
the car at the time of the accident, and that it believed  hed made the claim with the intention 
of making financial  gain. It outlined a number  of inconsistencies between his four accounts, 
including: 
whether Mr H had been distracted by the radio at the time of the accident; 
how many people  were in the third party vehicle; 
if Mr H had a passenger; 
if Mr H and the third party were travelling in convoy;  
Mr Hs relationship with the third party driver; 
the damage to Mr Hs car; 
the time of the accident;  
where and when both vehicles pulled over to assess the damage.
Mr H complained to this service. He said he wanted the £1,500  he paid to fix his car and 
compensation for the inconvenience UKI had caused him, and the fact hed been told not to 
call UKI while  its investigation was ongoing.
Our investigator felt the claim should  be upheld in part. He acknowledged insurance  claims  
take some  time to resolve but he explained  he felt January 2019  to April 2019 was a 
reasonable timeframe  in which  to investigate the accident. He also felt it was reasonable for 
UKI to have asked Mr H not to call while the investigation was ongoing.  He noted Mr H had 
given an account  when he called to report the accident, and was interviewed a further  three 
times over the course of four weeks, commenting  he wouldnt reasonably expect all four 
accounts to be identical. He accepted there were inconsistencies, but he didnt think  this 
showed the accident didnt happen in the way Mr H had described. Further, he explained 
hed viewed some  of the CCTV footage  and it wasnt  possible to identify the passenger. He 
told UKI he would  review other CCTV footage  it sent in but, based on what  hed seen, he 
didnt think the decision to decline the claim was fair and recommended that UKI should  
reconsider the claim. UKI sent some  more footage, which our investigator viewed. But he 
maintained it wasnt  possible to identify Mr H as the passenger and so his view would  remain 
the same. 
Ref: DRN23214682UKI has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  It accepts  the CCTV 
doesnt prove Mr H wasnt driving the car, clarifying  that was never  its suggestion. It argued 
the footage contradicts statements made by Mr H as to the circumstances of the accident 
and the occupancy of the cars and stated its reviewed the claim but maintains its decision  
was reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the decision to decline the claim
The claim was declined  because of inconsistencies in Mr Hs account and because UKI 
didnt accept Mr H was driving the car at the time of the accident. It had considered a 
number of possible explanations for what had happened, including the fact Mr H was racing 
the third-party vehicle,  that he had a grievance with the driver of the third-party vehicle and 
that he wasnt the driver of his car at the time of the crash, suggesting that much of what   
Mr H had said was based on what he assumed  might have happened.  
Ive considered the various accounts  Mr H gave  and I accept there are inconsistencies in the 
way he described  the moment  of impact,  including  the position  of the two cars and whether 
there were other cars nearby, whether he was changing the radio channel,  whether the third-
party vehicle was stationary and whether it had passengers.  There  were also inconsistencies 
in Mr Hs account about the route the car took,  Mr Hs relationship with the driver of the third 
-party vehicle, the time of the accident,  whether there was a passenger in Mr Hs car and 
how much  time had passed before  he contacted UKI (and what he was doing during that 
time).
However, I consider  that in situations such as this, some inconsistency is inevitable,  
especially given the period that elapsed between each account. While  I think  the elements in 
question are things  Mr H might have recalled quite  easily and accurately, I dont think his 
failure to give consistent accounts means he wasnt driving the car or that he wasnt there. 
It was for Mr H to show that the accident happened, and Im satisfied hes done  that. It was 
then for UKI to show Mr H wasnt  driving the car at the time of the crash. Crucially, the 
accident was caught on CCTV and, other than the inconsistencies in Mr Hs accounts,  
which, alone, I dont  consider are sufficient evidence that Mr H wasnt  driving or present, 
theres no evidence  he wasnt  driving  the car or that he wasnt present at the time of the 
accident. None  of the inconsistencies are material to whether Mr H was driving and, on 
balance, Im satisfied its most  likely he was driving the car at the time of the accident.  
Consequently, Im not persuaded  that the decision to decline the claim was fair. For that 
reason, UKI should settle the claim by reimbursing  Mr H the money  he spent having his car 
fixed, upon receipt of evidence of how much  he paid. It should also remove any reference to 
the cancellation from its systems and notify  the credit reference  agencies.
UKIs handling of the claim
Mr H is unhappy that, because UKI initially  thought the accident hadnt happened, he had to 
get the CCTV footage himself. I understand this was time consuming  but UKI has explained 
that, due to initial confusion about timing, the accident  wasnt  caught on the CCTV it had. In 
Ref: DRN23214683light of this and the fact it had been  for Mr H to show he had a valid claim,  I dont  think  the 
fact hed obtained the CCTV himself  was unfair.
Ive considered the time it took UKI to investigate the claim and I dont think six weeks  was 
unreasonable. Insurers are entitled  to investigate claims, especially in circumstances where 
there are legitimate concerns around  the validity of the claim, which Im satisfied there were. 
UKI paid for the storage costs pending its investigation and so I dont think  Mr H suffered 
financially as a result  of the time it took to investigate the claim. And I understand  Mr H 
wasnt given a courtesy car. This is because the claim was declined,  but a courtesy car 
wasnt provided for in the policy so, even UKI it had accepted the claim was valid, it wasnt  
obliged to provide one.
Mr H was told to use an approved garage  and hes complained there  werent any in the local 
area. He arranged the repairs himself,  so an approved garage wasnt  necessary. But he was 
told hed need  to use an approved garage and I think this caused him inconvenience. I also 
think the fact UKI asked  him not to call in while the claim was being investigated was unfair.  I 
think Mr H should be compensated for these failings and, taking into account the impact the 
failings had, I think £100 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and I direct UK Insurance  Limited  to:
settle the claim in accordance with what Ive said above. This is to include a payment 
of 8% simple interest* from the date of the claim to the date it makes the payment.
remove any reference to the cancellation from its records  and notify  the fraud 
authorities.
pay Mr H £100 compensation. The compensation is to be paid within  28 days of the 
date on which we tell UK Insurance Limited Mr H accepts  my final decision (if he 
does). If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from the 
date my final decision to the date of payment, at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest. 
UK Insurance Limited  must give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he 
asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim  the tax from the tax authorities if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2321468