K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about the service  she received  from Santander UK Plc when she lost her 
debit card whilst she was abroad.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on the 31 May 2019. A copy of this is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said I didnt think this complaint should be upheld. I explained 
why I felt the £540 compensation  Santander  had paid Miss P for the problems she 
experienced was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Santander hasnt  responded  to my provisional decision. Miss P has responded and said she 
doesnt agree with it. She says Santander  initially awarded her this compensation for the 
problems caused  by Santanders  actions.  And they told her to complain directly to the third 
party card scheme about the issues caused  by the third party  card schemes  actions. She 
has since been told that Santander  are also responsible for resolving her complaint about 
the third party  card schemes  actions, so she feels they should award her more 
compensation to take this into account.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss Ps frustration as it appears  it did take some time for Santander to confirm  
theyd taken all of the issues she experienced into consideration when  they made their 
award of compensation. But in my provisional findings I considered all of the problems 
Miss P told us and Santander she had experienced  both as a result of Santanders  actions 
and the third party card schemes actions. And I explained why I felt that the compensation 
Santander had awarded her was sufficient. 
I appreciate Miss P will be disappointed, but I still feel this is the case.  So I see no reason to 
reach a different decision to the one I reached  in my provisional decision.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2019.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26952292copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss P complains  about the service she received from Santander UK Plc when she lost her debit card 
whilst she was abroad.
background
On 8 August 2018 Miss P contacted Santander to let them know shed lost her debit card whilst on 
holiday abroad.  They  provided  her with a telephone number for the third party card scheme, and 
advised her to contact them for emergency cash. 
Miss P has explained that she spent over £200  on telephone calls to the third party card scheme from 
her and her daughters mobile phones. She wasnt able to access  emergency  cash  until the 10 
August 2018,  and had to borrow money from people  shed met on holiday in the meantime. She was 
directed to the branch  of a money transfer service to collect  her emergency  cash, but the first time 
she went it was closed - so she had to pay additional taxi fares to return the next day. When she was 
able to access  the money, it was in dollars,  and she had to exchange it to euros. 
Miss P complained  to Santander who agreed they had made an error when they didnt clarify which  
country she was in and gave her an incorrect telephone number  for the third party card scheme. They 
paid her a total of £540  to cover financial losses and compensate her for the inconvenience this caused.   
Miss P doesnt think this is enough. She says she lost out on two and a half days  of her holiday  trying 
to sort out these problems. And feels this warrants a higher offer of compensation.
Our investigator felt that Santanders offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. But Miss P disagrees. 
She doesnt  feel that our investigator considered how Santander acted with regards to her complaint  
against the third party card scheme in this matter. So the case  has been passed  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know Miss P will be disappointed, but Im not going to ask 
Santander to do anything further.  Ill explain why. 
Santander agree they made a mistake here when  they gave Miss P an incorrect telephone number. 
But they feel the £540 compensation they have paid her is sufficient to resolve her complaint. Theyve 
explained that initially she was given  £270 was to cover expenses, including phone  bills and taxi 
fares, and £130 for distress  and inconvenience.  She was then awarded  a further £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused  when she received her emergency cash  in the wrong currency and had to 
exchange it. And an additional £40 compensation for the poor service she received on the telephone. 
Miss P asked  Santander to increase their offer of compensation to better  reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. She also referred to the fact she had to borrow  money from other 
people for food whilst she was without cash. I dont think it would  be fair for me to ask Santander to 
reimburse her for this. She would have  had to pay for expenses like food and drink even  had she not 
lost her bank  card. So I think its reasonable for her to repay this money out of her own pocket.
I appreciate that Miss P feels Santander and the third party card scheme  were responsible  for delays 
in her receiving emergency cash. Miss P spoke to Santander at approximately 4pm on 8 August 2018 
to tell them  shed lost her card, and after speaking to the third party  card scheme  was expecting a call 
back from Santander  later that evening. But she didnt receive a call until the following  morning to 
authorise the payment. She says she was told there was a communication  breakdown between  
Santander and the third party  card scheme over an email requesting the release of the funds which  
caused this delay.  I understand this would have been frustrating. But given it was fairly late in the 
working day when she contacted Santander on 8 August 2018, I think, on balance, its unlikely she 
would have been able to get access to her cash that same day. 
Ref: DRN26952293I understand it would have been  very frustrating for Miss P when she was not able to access her 
money on 9 August 2018 either. The branch of the money transfer service she was directed to closed 
before she arrived.  But there would have been limited places the third party  card scheme  could  have 
sent emergency cash  for collection. And looking at the opening  hours displayed on the money transfer 
services website now, the branches in the location Miss P was staying  in arent  advertised to close 
before 10pm. Whilst I cant be certain what their advertised opening hours were  at the time, this does 
make me think that, on balance,  its likely the third party card scheme wouldnt have been  aware the 
branch would  be shut that afternoon when they told Miss P to go there. Santander have paid her 
expenses for this journey, and the cost of the additional calls she made  trying to sort this out. I think  
this is reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that Miss P asked Santander to compensate her for the money she lost when she had to 
convert her emergency payment to euros. But Im satisfied the compensation  theyve given her for the 
inconvenience caused  by this mistake is reasonable and would more than cover these  costs.
Miss P also told Santander  shed lost money on a boat trip she hadnt been able to attend whilst  she 
was without  cash.  I understand this would have been upsetting. But Im satisfied  that Santander have 
reimbursed her for the costs it would  be fair for me to say they were  responsible for. The loss of her 
bank card was always going to cause Miss P some level of inconvenience. So whilst I do sympathise 
with her, I dont feel it would  be fair for me to hold Santander  responsible for every  inconvenience she 
experienced whilst she was without money. 
There seems  to have been some confusion about how Miss Ps dissatisfaction with the third party card 
scheme was being dealt  with here.  I understand  she complained to both Santander and the third party  
card scheme  about what had happened. And the third party card scheme  gave her some reference 
numbers to give to Santander. She says Santander  initially told her it was their responsibility to deal 
with her complaint about the third party card scheme. But that they later denied this, so she went to 
the Citizens Advice  Bureau. Santander have now confirmed it is for them  to deal with this, but said 
they feel the compensation  theyve already paid is sufficient to resolve Miss Ps complaint.
I gather Miss P was expecting  Santander  to help her raise a separate  formal complaint with the third 
party card scheme.  And shes asked us to treat this matter as a separate complaint here. But Santander 
have confirmed  to us that as Miss P is Santanders customer and not the third party card schemes, any 
complaint is for Santander  to deal with, even if it relates to a service  the third party card scheme 
provided on their behalf. They said they can raise  any issues themselves with the third party  card 
scheme about their service,  but that the complaint itself rests with Santander to resolve.  And theyve  
shown us that they included the expenses Miss P incurred contacting the third party  card scheme, and 
considered the circumstances of the whole complaint, when making their compensation  award. 
Ive already explained why I agree that this compensation is fair and reasonable  considering the 
actions of Santander and the third party card scheme. And whilst I understand there has been some 
back and forth between Santander and Miss P about  her dissatisfaction with the third party  card 
scheme, it does seem this has largely been as a result of a misunderstanding.  So Im not going  to ask 
Santander to do anything further here. 
Miss P if free to try and pursue a separate complaint against the third party  card scheme if she 
wishes. But its not Santanders role to assist her with this. And this service  doesnt have the authority  
to investigate complaints against the third party scheme either,  as they arent  covered  under  our 
jurisdiction as a regulated  business.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2695229