K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  closed all of his accounts.  
background
Mr V says he visited a Bank  of Scotland branch where he was spoken to curtly  and 
aggressively by the staff.  He says closing his accounts is unwarranted and disproportionate. 
He wants his accounts reinstated and an apology. 
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that its branch staff have confirmed that Mr V 
wasnt spoken to inappropriately or offensively.  Mr V used unacceptable  language towards  a 
staff member and behaved  in an aggressive  and loud manner. Due to Mr Vs unacceptable 
behaviour itd decided to terminate its banking relationship with him and all his accounts 
would be closed.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Bank of Scotland has evidence from its staff members about what happened. It says 
Mr Vs behaviour in the branch on 23 March 2018  was unacceptable.  And as it 
doesnt tolerate  behaviour like Mr Vs its made the commercial decision to close his 
accounts.
Its a business commercial decision whether or not to terminate its relationship with a 
customer. We wouldnt normally interfere  with that. And its acted in line with the 
terms and conditions  of the accounts  and relevant  regulations  in doing so.
Theres also nothing to show the reason for the account closures was due to Mr Vs 
background or that hes been  treated unfairly  or differently to anyone else.
Mr V doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says no 
account has been taken of what the Bank of Scotland staff member  did when instigating  the 
whole affair. Mr V says he didnt become indignant for no reason. The staff member has 
fabricated that she didnt say anything abusive  to him and the manager has also sought to 
protect his staff members  by denying what was said by them. Bank of Scotlands decision is 
completely disproportionate and unfair. The bank is biased which  perpetuates the abuse 
exhibited by its employee 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Bank of Scotlands terms and conditions, which Mr V wouldve accepted when  he first used 
its service, say it may close  an account with no notice if it reasonably considers the account  
holder is behaving improperly.  And it says thats,  for example, in a threatening or abusive 
way. 
Ref: DRN21571702I recognise Mr V disputes what happened and blames a staff member  for causing the 
situation to develop in the first place. But I cant determine exactly  what  happened in the 
branch that day or what was said. 
Even so, and whatever happened, its clear that the Bank of Scotlands  members of staff 
considered Mr Vs behaviour to be unacceptable. And as a result it exercised its commercial  
judgment and decided to end its banking  relationship with Mr V and close  his accounts as its 
entitled to do. Although in this case it did give him a few days  notice rather  than doing so 
immediately.
I recognise Mr Vs frustration at this decision and that his accounts were closed. But Im 
satisfied Bank of Scotland has acted in line with its terms and conditions by doing so.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably now require  Bank  of Scotland to reinstate  any 
of Mr Vs accounts as he would like. And I dont  see any compelling reason  to change the 
proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157170