K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is about  a home insurance policy they held with Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Plc (RSA). They are unhappy  that when they made a claim for subsidence damage 
to their home in 2018, RSA accused  them of not having declared a previous subsidence 
claim when  they took the policy out. RSA then voided (cancelled from outset) the policy  and 
as there  was no policy, declined to deal with the claim.
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs B made a claim on their insurance policy with another  provider for 
subsidence damage to their home.  They maintained that policy thereafter. However, in 2016 
Mr and Mrs B considered changing  their insurance  policy and provider. They  arranged  a new 
home insurance policy which is underwritten by RSA. The policy  was applied for online.
As part of the quotation process  Mr and Mrs B were asked to ensure they met RSAs  
Eligibility conditions . This was a list of statements, including confirmation that their home 
was NOT showing  any signs  of or ever had any damage caused to it by subsidence, 
landslip or heave. In requesting a quote, Mr and Mrs B were  deemed to have confirmed they 
met the eligibility conditions. In order to read the eligibility conditions  Mr and Mrs B had to 
click on a link. RSA has confirmed that Mr and Mrs B could move through the quotation form, 
submit it, receive a quote and confirm they wanted the quoted  policy without opening  the 
eligibility conditions link. 
The policy documents were sent to Mr and Mrs B in July 2016. Included  was a Home  
Statement of Insurance. It was explained this document detailed the information provided  to 
RSA and the assumptions agreed  to. Mr and Mrs B were asked to make sure its content  was 
correct. It included the statement The home  is not showing  any signs  of, or had any damage 
caused by subsidence, landslip or heave. The policy started on 1 August 2016. 
RSA has confirmed the statement of insurance was only given to Mr and Mrs B with the 
initial policy documentation. A copy was not included  with subsequent policy renewals. 
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs B made  a claim on the policy because they had noticed they had 
begun to have  difficulty closing some internal doors. Also, there  were  cracking  above  the 
doors and around  window  sills. RSA arranged for the property to be assessed. It was 
decided the damage was as a result of subsidence. During this visit Mr and Mrs B told the 
RSA representative  about their previous  subsidence  claim and said that theyd told RSA 
about this in 2016. 
RSA searched for telephone calls with Mr and Mrs B by reference to their telephone 
numbers. It found  three calls; two from before the policy was arranged  and one after. It said 
that none of these calls mentioned subsidence. It also said there  was some discussion about 
the eligibility statement. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with RSAs investigation into the telephone calls made in 2016  
in which  they said RSA had been  informed about the previous subsidence.  They wanted 
further searches  done as the relevant  calls hadnt  been found. When RSA said it had done  
everything it could to find calls between it and them, Mr and Mrs B complained.
RSA acknowledged  it had taken too long to find the call recordings and then be able to listen 
to them.  However, it was satisfied there were no other calls. RSA declined the claim on the 
Ref: DRN20681992basis that there had been previous subsidence which was not declared at application. It said 
that had it been,  cover  wouldnt have been  offered.  So the policy  was voided and the 
premium refunded.
Mr and Mrs B werent happy  with RSAs response  to their concerns and referred their 
complaint to this service.   When  doing so they said that when arranging  quotes from 
providers (including  RSA)  they telephoned  and asked whether their previous subsidence  
claim would be a problem.  They have said they informed RSA that theyd had a previous  
claim for subsidence twice before they submitted their application  for the policy and a third 
time after their application was accepted.  They say they were told that the claim wouldnt be 
a problem as it had been 16 years  since the claim, but a note of the claim had been made on 
the file.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She partially  upheld  the complaint and 
recommended RSA reinstate the policy from the 2017 renewal and consider the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the investigators conclusion that RSA could  reasonably void the 
first year of the insurance policy. They maintained they had told RSA about the previous 
subsidence their home had suffered.  They said it doesnt make sense for anyone  who had 
experienced subsidence and knew the work and cost it takes to resolve, not to disclose 
previous subsidence. They confirmed they had managed to insure the property, but the new 
policy was more expensive and had a higher excess for subsidence.  
Mr and Mrs B also said that, following RSAs rejection of their claim and voidance  of their 
policy, they paid to have a surveyor assess the property. The surveyor was reported as 
having recommended  further  strengthening works be done to the walls in the areas of 
cracking. They had also confirmed that the replacement policy arranged in 2019 had cost 
£595.44.
RSA didnt accept  the investigators conclusions. It said Mr and Mrs Bs obligation was to 
declare the subsidence at inception and at renewal, to advise of any changes.  It pointed  out 
there had been  no changes  at renewal.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint was passed to me to consider. I requested 
further information and evidence from RSA.  It provided two of the three call recordings it had 
relied on when  stating Mr and Mrs B hadnt  declared the previous subsidence  in 2016. One 
of the call recordings was no longer  available   one from before the policy  was applied for. In 
addition, RSA confirmed  that when the application was submitted, Mr and Mrs B were not 
required to look at the assumptions  they were deemed to have accepted  by making their 
application.
The two call recordings  provided  were  from 8 July 2016. I have listened to both. The first call 
mainly discusses policy limits and optional extras. The only mention of claims was in relation 
to the protected no-claims cover available, which Mrs B said they werent interested  in as 
we havent made any claims for years.
The second  call on that day was made  after Mrs B had completed the application and paid 
the premium. She called to check if the payment had gone  through.  It was confirmed RSAs  
system was showing that the payment was in progress, which  meant the payment hadnt 
gone through. The member of staff advised  her to call back  the following day and the 
payment could be made over the phone.  
Ref: DRN20681993RSA has been  unable to provide a copy of the other call it found during its investigation. I 
believe this call was from before the policy  application. There are no contemporaneous 
notes giving details  about the call, but RSA has said its case-handler listened to the call and 
noted that there was no mention of the previous  subsidence.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2020, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
RSA has concluded  that Mr and Mrs B misrepresented their property history when applying 
for the policy because  they agreed to a statement saying, The home is not showing  any 
signs of, or had any damage  caused by subsidence, landslip or heave. 
If Mr and Mrs B read this statement and agreed  to it, I would agree with RSA.  However,  
having carefully read all the evidence on this case,  I am not satisfied  that is the case. Firstly,  
all of the submissions Mr and Mrs B have made are very clearly about their understanding  of 
the questions  they were  asked and how they believe  conversations with RSA went.  There  
doesnt appear to be any consciousness from the application stage of the eligibility 
conditions.
I also note that RSA has now confirmed that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to look at the eligibility 
conditions to take out the policy. It has also been unable to provide any evidence  that they 
clicked on the link and looked at the criteria. As RSA is aware, this service  has provided 
guidance to the insurance industry that where  it cant evidence a consumer  opened the page 
on which such statements were contained,  they cant be deemed  to have accepted them.  I 
see no reason to depart from that approach in this case; as I have said above, I am not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs B have indicated any awareness of the content  of the eligibility  
criteria.
I note that RSA has said that Mr and Mrs B were provided with a copy  of the statement of 
insurance that contained the statement about subsidence and that there was an obligation 
on them  to tell RSA about the subsidence. As RSA is aware, for consumer contracts an 
insurer is required to ask clear questions to elicit the information  it wishes to know. Whilst 
statements that a consumer can accept are acceptable alternatives to questions, a 
consumer must be prompted to provide  that information in some format and the 
communication must  be clear. So Mr and Mrs B were only obliged  to provide the information 
if RSA prompted  them  to do so. In this case it did not.
Furthermore, it is generally accepted that consumers are not good  at reading documentation 
they are provided  with following  being accepted for a policy,  which  is why insurers  highlight  
unusual, onerous  or very important terms. So I dont consider RSA can rely on having 
proved the statement of insurance in 2016, and asked for it to be checked, to negate  it 
having not made Mr and Mrs B review the eligibility criteria and confirm they were accurate 
for their situation. Furthermore, if RSA didnt  remind Mr and Mrs B of what they had 
said/accepted in 2016 at subsequent renewals, that would make it somewhat unlikely a 
consumer would notify it of any changes.
In light of this, I dont consider RSAs decision to void Mr and Mrs Bs policy was reasonable. 
As such,  they should be placed  back in the position  they would have been in, but for that 
mistake. That would be to have had an insurance  policy with RSA since 2016, which 
covered them for subsidence damage to their home  in order  for the policy to be reinstated, 
Mr and Mrs B will need  to return the refunded premiums. As Mr and Mrs B would have had a 
Ref: DRN20681994valid insurance policy at the time they made their claim  in 2018, RSA should  now consider 
the claim for damage to their home. 
Mr and Mrs B told us they managed to replace the insurance policy,  but that it was more  
expensive. There is an industry agreement relating to insuring domestic properties that 
suffer from subsidence  the ABI Domestic  Subsidence Agreement  which  has been 
accepted by most insurers  and its provisions are now considered to represent  good industry 
practice. Among other things this agreement requires, in most situations,  an insurer to 
continue to provide  insurance for a property that has suffered from subsidence.  As such, I 
consider RSA should continue to offer cover to Mr and Mrs B if they want it to. They  can, 
however, choose  to keep their current policy if they wish. If they make that choice RSA wont  
be responsible  for any additional costs they incur in the future.
In either  situation,  Mr and Mrs B will be due a refund  of the premiums  they have paid to the 
new insurer if they have  been charged more for their insurance than they would have been if 
the RSA policy had remained in force. Mr and Mrs B will need to provide RSA with evidence 
of the cost of their new insurance policy for this assessment to be made.
Although not important  to the outcome of the complaint, for completeness  I will comment on 
the matter of the telephone calls.  Mrs B has been  adamant that she told RSA about the 
previous subsidence claim. That was not the case in the two call recordings I listened to. 
However, RSA was unable to provide  one recording  from before the policy application  that 
we know existed. Although it has provided notes about this call, made during its complaint 
investigation, there is nothing contemporaneous  detailing the content of the conversation.  In 
addition, I note that RSA has said it has only been  able to locate three calls being made to it 
by Mrs B, but the recording  of the call after the policy application indicates Mrs B made  at 
least one more telephone call to RSA that its searches didnt locate.  In light of this I cant be 
certain what Mrs B did or didnt tell RSA.
Mr and Mrs B have  clearly been distressed by being  told they had misled RSA when Mrs B 
is sure she didnt. This resulted in the policy being voided and, given they have said they 
were only able to obtain  insurance  in 2019, there  would have been the worry of being 
uninsured and the additional costs associated with the new policy.  Some  of that cost is likely 
to be because they had to declare the voidance. In light of this I consider RSA should pay 
Mr and Mrs B £750 compensation. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold this complaint. If my conclusions  
remain the same following  any further comment or evidence from the parties,  I will require 
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Bs policy from inception in 2016. They will have to return  the 
refunded premiums to RSA for this to happen.
Consider the subsidence  claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
As RSA would have  continued to insure Mr and Mrs B under the ABI domestic  
subsidence agreement, it should  calculate what premium it would have charged them  at 
the 2019 and 2020 policy renewals  and any excess premium paid by Mr and Mrs B 
should be refunded to them.
Ref: DRN20681995If Mr and Mrs B wish to move  their insurance  policy back  to RSA, it should  provide the 
cover via the reinstated policy going  forward. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B the sum of £750  for the upset  and inconvenience this matter has 
caused them.
Mr and Mrs B acknowledged receipt  of the provisional decision. They said they had no 
further points  to make and no other  information  to provide.  
RSA also confirmed it had received  the provisional  decision. It asked for an extension of time 
to provide a response,  which was granted. However,  it didnt provide any comment  on the 
provisional decision by the extended deadline, and so the complaint has been passed back  
to me to consider further.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given  neither party has provided 
any further evidence  or comment, I see no reason to change my conclusions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc 
to:
Reinstate Mr and Mrs Bs policy from inception in 2016. They will have to return  the 
refunded premium to RSA for this to happen.
Consider the subsidence  claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
As RSA would have  continued to insure Mr and Mrs B under the ABI domestic  
subsidence agreement, it should  calculate what premium it would have charged them  at 
the 2019 and 2020 policy renewals. This sum should be compared with the cost of the 
new insurance Mr and Mrs B arranged for the same period.  Any excess amount paid 
should be refunded to them.
If Mr and Mrs B wish to move  their insurance  policy back  to RSA, it should  provide the 
cover via the reinstated policy going  forward. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B £750 for the upset and inconvenience this matter  caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2068199