K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the way in which CIS General  Insurance Limited dealt  with her 
motor insurance claim following an accident.  She also complains  about  poor customer 
service and incorrect information given about her car finance. 
background
After her car had been written off, Miss S contacted  CIS in December 2018 to check there 
was no longer any outstanding finance remaining as she thought  she paid it off. CIS told her 
the finance marker hadnt been  removed. She queried this as the finance had been fully 
repaid. When she contacted CIS again she was told that only engineers  had access to check 
the finance marker and that she didnt  know how this information was given to Miss S  this 
was incorrect. She is also unhappy with the customer service she received in relation to this 
and says she didnt  receive a call back from CIS when she said this was promised. She says 
CIS caused unnecessary delays when dealing with her claim including contacting the wrong  
third party insurer.  
CIS say they accept  that the complaint handler could have handled things  better when 
speaking to Miss S about her query. But they say no call back  was ever agreed by her, so 
the agent never called. They say they contacted  the finance provider themselves and that 
the finance marker was removed within 48 hours. They also say they contacted the correct 
insurer so there was no delay in the contact made.
The investigator at this service didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint. He said that he couldnt  
establish that CIS had done  anything  profoundly  wrong. He accepted that the agent at CIS 
could have been more proficient and the investigation more thorough, but he wasnt  able to 
direct the CIS to compensate for this.
Miss S didnt agree with this, so this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am not upholding this complaint. I will 
explain further. 
Firstly I should make clear that CIS arent responsible for the finance marker that is placed 
nor are they responsible for the removal of this once this debt has been satisfied. So Ive 
looked at what  happened when Miss S spoke  to CIS in November 2018. She was told the 
finance marker hadnt been removed even though Miss S had already paid this. When she 
contacted CIS again in December 2018,  a different adviser incorrectly informed her that the 
advisers didnt have access to the system  to check the finance markers so wasnt clear  how 
she was told this. This adviser  did say she wasnt sure about the information so correctly 
said she would check the information and call Miss S back   which she did. Miss S was 
advised to contact the finance provider to remove this but I havent  seen anything to suggest  
this was done. In order  to assist Miss S, CIS themselves did contact the finance provider and 
the marker  was removed  within  two days so I cant direct CIS to do more.  
Miss S said there were further  delays  in dealing with the complaint she made  about  the 
handling of her claim. She was particularly  upset because the excess for the accident had 
been deducted from her settlement payment and the delays meant she would have to wait 
Ref: DRN25246962longer to be reimbursed  for what she says is a non-fault  accident. While  she understood that 
this was standard practice because liability hadnt yet been  accepted,  she expected CIS 
would have progressed  the claim much  quicker. So Ive looked at what communication  was 
made with the other drivers insurer. 
Miss S made a claim to CIS in December 2018 and they contacted  the other drivers insurer  
on the same  day. Miss S brought her complaint to this service in January 2019. During this 
period CIS had already  written to the other  drivers insurer and their representatives on three  
occasions. I think this is reasonable. Having reviewed all the information I havent seen 
anything that would  suggest  any particular  delays occurred  in dealing with her claim so I 
dont feel CIS have done anything wrong here.
Miss S believed CIS contacted the wrong  insurer when she initially  brought her claim to them 
and that this caused delays in dealing with her claim. CIS said they got the details of the 
other drivers  insurer  from a national motor insurer database and the information  was 
correct. The insurer had instructed another firm to deal with their accident  claim which  
Miss S wasnt aware of so she thought that the wrong insurer  had been contacted but this 
wasnt the case. So I am persuaded  that the correct insurer was contacted as this 
information was from the national motor  insurer database. As such  I am satisfied that there 
was no delay following  the contact made with this insurer.  
Miss S says she wasnt  happy  with the way the CIS adviser dealt with her claim,  in particular 
a call she received  on 10 January  2019.  I know Miss S feels quite strongly about the 
customer service  shes  received so Id like to re-assure her that Ive reviewed all information 
available on this case file including  this telephone call. She raises  a number of points which I 
have considered but in particular Miss S says she was promised a call back  but the adviser 
didnt call her back and she had to call CIS herself  the following day. In the call, the adviser 
says he would call back the next day which Miss S doesnt agree to. He then asks any 
particular time you want the call?  to which Miss S responds I dont know. Miss S was 
frustrated having  to call back to get an update but it is clear from the call that the adviser did 
attempt to agree a specific time for call back.  Miss S wasnt  agreeable to this and no 
agreement was made. So Im satisfied  that the adviser didnt do anything  wrong  in not calling  
back.
Whilst I acknowledge that the customer service  received could have been better, it is not 
within our remit  to punish a business for this. CIS in their response to Miss S agreed that the 
adviser she spoke to could have handled things better. But this doesnt necessarily mean 
that it warrants compensation. I havent  seen or heard anything that I could say with certainty 
was particularly unfair or wrong. CIS apologised to Miss S for the customer  service she 
received and I think thats enough. Having listened to the call, I cant  say that CIS have done  
anything that would  warrant compensation.                                                                                                                                                                                        
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against CIS General  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ref: DRN25246963ombudsman
Ref: DRN2524696