K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2011. Mr M says Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Tesco disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint passed  to me. I issued my provisional decision in 
respect of this complaint on 14 November 2018,  a copy of which  is attached to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In my provisional  decision I set out the reasons why I was minded 
not to uphold Mr Ms complaint about  the miss-sale of the PPI. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 14 December 2018.  Mr Ms representatives have acknowledged 
receiving the decision  and the date for response. But at the time of writing I have not 
received any further submissions from them  or from Tesco.  I consider  that sufficient time has 
been given for a response had Mr M wished to make one. So I am proceeding to my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive minded to find that the policy wasnt mis-sold  because:
I think Tesco made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Ive considered what we know  about how Tesco  sold 
PPI over the internet around  this time and Ive seen internet  screenshots that Tesco  
say are representative of what Mr M would  have seen at the time of applying  for PPI. 
To get the cover  Mr M would have  had to select it and he would have had a choice 
about doing that or not. So it seems most likely  that Mr M did choose it and did so 
knowing he had a choice  to do so, although  I can understand why he cant remember 
this now, several  years later.
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But he chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  Based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems  he was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. There is a lack of clarity  about  whether Mr M was employed of self employed  
at the time of the sale. In bringing  his complaint to us Mr M told us he was employed 
and self-employed  and he gave us the name  of an employer.  Tesco has records  that 
Ref: DRN28795532suggest Mr M told them he was employed at the time of the sale and working  for a 
different employer than the one Mr M told us about. So there  is some  doubt about 
Mr Ms employment status. So Mr M was asked  to provide evidence  that would clarify 
the matter. At the time of writing Mr M has not responded. So based on all the 
submissions made to me I have seen insufficient evidence  to find that Mr M was, 
most likely, self-employed  at the time of the sale. 
And Ive considered that whilst Mr Ms initial sick pay was good,  it dropped  
significantly after 6 months.  And Mr M told us that he had only modest savings that 
he could have relied on. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in that 
event, or if Mr M lost his job. So as this policy would have  paid out in addition  to any 
existing benefits  he may have  had, I think the policy  would  have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI and its cost 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Tesco expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should  have told Mr M about that. 
Because Tesco didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Tesco has to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mr M any 
extra interest Mr M paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr M the difference between  
what Mr M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mr M 8%* simple interest if 
Mr M paid off his credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my provisional decision
I am minded to decide  that the PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so Tesco  Personal Finance  Plc 
wont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Tesco Personal Finance Plc will have to pay back  to Mr M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt done so already. 
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN28795533my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, so Tesco Personal Finance Plc wont  have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
But Tesco Personal Finance Plc will have to pay back  to Mr M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  3 February 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2879553