K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that she was given incorrect advice in a branch of The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc (RBS)  that led to her breaking  her loan payment plan.
background
Miss M took out a loan with RBS in March 2017. In June 2018  RBS agreed to set up a 
payment plan, due to a change in her circumstances that meant she was no longer  able to 
meet the monthly payments. It was a condition  of the plan that all payments be met by the 
agreed dates. 
On the day the payment for August was due, Miss M received a text message from RBS 
warning her that there  wasnt enough money  in her current account to meet all the payments 
that were due to be made. She went into a branch of RBS to find out how much she would 
need to pay into her account to cover the payments. She says she spoke to a staff member  
who told her she needed  to pay in £70, which she did. However, this didnt cover  the money 
required to meet the payment to her loan as well as other pending payments, so her 
payment to the loan was unsuccessful. As the payment wasnt made  the payment plan no 
longer stood, so the full monthly payments were required. Subsequently the loan defaulted 
and was passed to a debt collector.
Miss M said if the branch staff member  had given her correct information about  how much 
she would  need  to pay in to cover  all the payments, she would have paid more money into 
her account.  She therefore said RBS should  honour the plan because it was only broken due 
to their error.  She was also unhappy  at the amount of time she felt she had to spend on the 
phone to RBS to try and sort the matter out. She made a complaint to RBS.
RBS agreed that the length  of time Miss M had to spend on the phone  was unsatisfactory.  
However, they said they hadnt done anything wrong  in relation to her payment plan.  They 
said as there  had been insufficient funds in her account for the payment in August, the 
payment bounced  and as the payment wasnt received, this meant the plan was broken. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with this response  as she said it was only because of RBS  error that 
she missed the payment.  She also said they shouldnt  have  given her the loan in the first 
place as she couldnt afford the repayments.  She said she thought RBS should  set up an 
affordable repayment  plan to help her meet payments to the loan. She made  a complaint to 
this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  uphold  the complaint. He said he 
thought RBS had carried out sufficient checks when assessing the affordability  of the loan. 
He also thought there wasnt  sufficient evidence to show that Miss M was given incorrect 
information in the branch. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with this response  as she said it wouldnt be possible to provide 
evidence of the advice she was given,  but she wouldnt  have missed  the payment  if the staff 
member had told her the right amount she needed  to pay. 
Ref: DRN29496942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M says that if the member of staff in the RBS branch had given her correct  information, 
she wouldnt  have broken her payment plan. Miss M went  into the branch on 28 August 
2018. RBS say that the plan didnt break  until 5 September. Miss M called RBS on 
30 August and said she would call back to make payment. As she didnt  do this, the plan 
broke six days later. However the fact she called means she was aware  that the payment 
hadnt been made. She then had the opportunity to make a payment but she didnt call again  
until 7 September  when  the plan had already broken. RBS have confirmed that if she had 
made payment before 5 September  then the plan would not have broken.
I understand that Miss M went into the branch with the intention  of bringing her account up to 
date. And she relied on information given to her by the staff member, who she assumed 
would tell her how much she would need to pay to do that. It isnt possible to know exactly 
what happened in the branch and whether Miss M was given incorrect information.  However  
as Miss M had an opportunity to pay the money  into her account in the following days,  even 
if the staff member had given Miss M incorrect information in the branch, she had the 
opportunity to pay in the extra funds before the plan broke. It therefore  wouldnt be 
reasonable to say RBS are responsible for Miss M not meeting the terms of her plan. 
Miss M has also expressed that she feels RBS shouldnt have given her the loan in the first 
place as the repayments were unaffordable. I have considered  this and I cant say RBS have 
acted irresponsibly when  offering Miss M the loan.  They have provided evidence of the 
checks they carried out which met their criteria, so I can see they did make an assessment 
of whether she could  afford it. They looked  at how much  disposable  income Miss M had and 
assessed whether  this would be sufficient to meet repayments to the loan. I note that Miss 
Ms financial  situation  changed after she had already taken out the loan. And this made it 
more difficult to make the required  payments. However at the time she applied for the loan 
she submitted information about her income and expenditure. At that time RBS thought it 
would be affordable based  on this. I therefore  think RBS carried  out sufficient  checks  in 
order to assess whether she could afford the loan at the time, so I cant  say they acted 
unreasonably or irresponsibly.
For the reasons  Ive given, I cant say that RBS have treated Miss M unfairly  in the 
circumstances. I therefore  wont require them to do anything further. Miss M says that the 
resolution she would like is for a payment plan to be set up to help her manage her 
payments to the loan. As the debt has now been sold to an external agency this would be 
something that she would need to discuss with them.   
Ref: DRN29496943my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. I therefore dont require 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019. 
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2949694