K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1994. Mr S says he was applying  
for a mortgage through a mortgage broker at the time, and the PPI was added to the 
mortgage without  him realising. The policy provided  Mr S with cover for accident, sickness 
and unemployment.
Bank of Scotland has taken responsibility for the sale of the PPI, although it didnt provide 
the mortgage at the time.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S suggests he wasnt given a choice about  taking out the PPI as it was automatically 
added when he applied  for a mortgage. I cant be sure what  was discussed  between him and 
the broker, but I see theres a completed application  form for the PPI which  explained briefly  
what the cover was and how much  it would cost. It was a policy  that lasted for five years, 
and it cost £768.75. Mr S was to pay for this and a small amount of interest (£20) in monthly 
instalments of £12.81 over the five years. Mr S signed this form and the associated  direct 
debit mandate.  Theres nothing  on the application  form that suggests Mr S has to have PPI 
in order to get a mortgage.
I understand why Mr S no longer remembers  the sale,  but I think he most likely  was aware 
he had a choice  about buying the PPI and decided to take it. 
Bank of Scotland has accepted that it advised  Mr S to take out the policy and it doesnt  look 
like it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
-Mr S was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. Although the exact  policy Mr S bought isnt available, ones from the same 
time period  suggest that he was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the 
PPI terms and conditions.
-Mr S told us he had good  work-related  benefits  if he couldnt work due to a sickness  or 
accident. And he says he had some savings too, although understandably, given how 
long ago this was he cant now show us the amount. But the policy would  have paid out 
in addition to the occupational benefits  and would do so, it seems,  for longer. Having the 
Ref: DRN26106972policy in place would mean Mr S could use his work-related benefits and savings to pay 
for other expenses. So I think Mr S would have  had some use for the policy  despite  his 
existing arrangements. 
-Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr S 
needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions and limitations.
-The PPI application  set out what the policy would cost each month,  including the relevant 
interest, and the monthly benefit  that would be paid if a successful claim was made. So 
I think Mr S would have been  aware how much he would  be paying for the policy and Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  
his monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said Mr S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr S would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Susan Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2610697