K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  and closed her account. And it hasnt 
explained why. Mrs Ms also unhappy that Santander wont  return  money which was paid into 
her account.  She wants Santander to release her funds.
background
Mrs M had a current account with Santander.
On 28 August 2018, a payment of just over £4,000  was paid into Mrs Ms account. 
Santander reviewed  Mrs Ms account  and asked her to provide information about the 
payment. Whilst it conducted the review Santander  blocked Mrs Ms access to her account. 
This meant she couldnt access any money  in the account.
Mrs M says the money paid into her account belongs  to her. And she provided Santander 
with a copy of an international pay slip as proof  of her entitlement to the money. Santander 
said Mrs M hasnt  provided enough information about the origin of the money. 
In October  2018, Santander closed Mrs Ms account. And it transferred the outstanding 
balance into a sundry account.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ms case.  He said Santander acted in line with its legal  and 
regulatory obligations when it asked Mrs M about  the payment. And it closed her account  in 
line with the terms  and conditions. Mrs M disagreed. She says shes out of pocket and wants  
her money. So, the complaint has come  to me decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
account block
Santander is required to have measures in place  to review payments. As part of its review 
process Santander are entitled to ask a customer for more information.  And its not for this 
service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role is to see if the bank has made any 
mistakes and then put the customer back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake 
hadnt happened.
Santander asked  Mrs M to provide information about her entitlement to the money. Mrs M 
gave Santander  a copy of an international payment slip which  she said is enough to show 
the money paid into her account belongs to her. Santander said it wasnt  sufficient.  And 
having seen a copy of the slip, Mrs M provided, I agree. I say this because it doesnt  show  
any information about who made  the payment or what the payment was for. So, I can 
understand why Santander had concerns. 
I can see that Santander spoke to Mrs M on several  occasions to let her know what  it was 
doing. And explained it needed to see proof of her entitlement  to the money. So, I think 
Santanders kept Mrs M informed about what its doing. And what information it needed from 
her.
Ref: DRN29064572Overall, Im satisfied that Santander were acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  reviewing Mrs Ms account  and asking questions. So, I dont think its done 
anything wrong. And so far, Mrs M hasnt  been able to show that she is entitled to the money 
which was paid into her account. So, Im not going  to ask Santander to return the money to 
her.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms account confirm Santander can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. And by giving  up to 60 days notice. I think 
considering what  happened in this case, its fair and reasonable Santander took the action it 
did. And it decided to close Mrs Ms account immediately. I can see that Santander wrote to 
Mrs M in October 2018 to let her know it was closing her account. So, Im satisfied  
Santander has complied  with the terms and conditions  of the account.
I know Mrs M is frustrated  that she hasnt been told why Santander closed her account and 
she wants a proper explanation. As Ive said Santander can end its relationship  with a 
customer in this way. Under  the terms and conditions Santander doesnt have to give 
Mrs M its reason for doing so  in the same  way a customer  doesnt  have to, should they no 
longer want to bank  with it. So, I cant  say Santander has done anything  wrong  by not giving 
Mrs M this information  as much  as shed like to know. And I cant  say Santander has 
treated Mrs M unfairly when it closed her account.
discrimination
Mrs M suspects the bank is discriminating against  her on the grounds of her nationality. 
Whilst I recognise the strength of her feeling, Ive not seen any evidence  to show any 
discrimination on the part of Santander.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2906457