K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Amtrust  Europe  Limited  as the provider of his building  warranty 
because its declined two claims he made  in respect  of issues  he has with his home.
 
background
Mr S bought his home in September 2015.  He was told it had a twenty year insurance 
backed guarantee. He didnt get any paperwork  at that time and when he asked his solicitor 
about it later he was sent a certificate.  He noted that cover was in place for defects for two 
years and in respect  of structural parts of the building  for a seven year period after that. But 
he also noted that the certificate began when the house had first been  completed in 2014,  
not from the date of his purchase.
In May 2017  Mr S contacted Amtrust.  He told it that his home had creaking floorboards and 
that one bedroom was much colder  than the rest. He wanted  Amtrust to accept these items 
as valid claims  under  the policy  and resolve them.
Amtrust noted that regarding both problems, Mr S had known about them during the two 
year defect period.  And he had brought one of the issues to the attention of the developer. 
But it also pointed out the policy required notification to both the developer and itself.  
Regarding it being notified the warranty requires the holder to do that, at the latest, before 
the end of six-months following the end of the two-year defect period. Amtrust noted that 
timeframe had expired  in February 2017,  around three months  before Mr S had told it of the 
issues. It said, on that basis his claim couldnt  succeed.
Amtrust also went on to say though that whilst Mr S had notified it of the issues during the 
seven year period  of structural cover, as theyd been  discovered during  the two year defect 
period, a claim under the structural cover couldnt  be considered  either. That being said 
Amtrust went  on to explain that even  if it were considering a claim  under  the structural cover,  
and even if the problems could be accepted as defects, they didnt seem  to have caused 
major damage to the property  and it is major  damage to the property that is covered during 
the seven year structural period (not resolving the defects  themselves).  
Mr S complained to this service. He said it wasnt fair that Amtrust was declining his claim on 
a technicality regarding when he notified  it. He said his late notification hadnt prejudiced 
Amtrusts positon and nor had it occurred due to any fault of his  he simply hadnt had a 
copy of the policy wording.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt Amtrust  had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions and that it was entitled  to have done so. Mr S said he felt hed been let down 
by all parties and Amtrusts  decline surely  wasnt in line with the principle of treating  
customers fairly. The complaint was passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr S didnt get a copy of the policy  wording. But that wasnt  due to any 
failure of Amtrust. The policy as referred  to by Amtrust, sets out the premise  for what  it was 
agreeing to offer cover for. And those terms were agreed with its customer,  the developer. 
When the policy transferred to Mr S as the new homeowner he inherited those terms. Just 
Ref: DRN23807532because he wasnt made aware of them  by his solicitor, doesnt mean Amtrust, in order  to 
treat him fairly, has to reasonably set aside  the terms  that dont suit Mr Ss situation. 
Its also important to remember  here that we dont know anything  about the contract that 
existed between the developer and Amtrust. So I dont think we can safely conclude that 
Amtrust wont  be or hasnt  been  prejudiced by Mr Ss late notification.  
But I think its also important to think about  the nature  of the term in question.  The timeframe 
is key to whether  or not liability  under the policy exists. That is quite  different to a scenario 
where an insurer has liability but there is then a term that exists  to limit that to some extent 
(where we most commonly look at whether or not an insurer has been prejudiced).  
Fairness is also something  that goes both ways.  Here, all Amtrust has sought  to do is to try 
and rely on the fairly agreed and set out terms of the policy.  I appreciate that Mr S has done 
nothing wrong  either. It seems that any error here occurred at the point of the sale of the 
property when Mr S didnt receive the necessary policy documents. And in noting that I have 
to be fair to both parties, I dont think it would be fair to make  Amtrust, which  hasnt failed 
Mr S, pick up a claim or claims that it otherwise has no liability for. In that scenario Mr S 
would gain whilst Amtrust  lost because of a failure  that was outside  of its control.   
That means that only if I disagree  with Amtrust  on its interpretation of the policy  wording will 
I be able to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Having looked at the details, Im satisfied Amtrust 
interpreted the policy correctly. 
Cover does begin from the point of completion  of the build, as opposed to when Mr S bought 
the house, I can see why hed think it was the latter but that is not the case. And it is quite 
common with this type of policy for cover to start when the property  is completed.
Mr S does say in a letter that he noticed both the creaking floorboards and the cold room  
within the first two years. But only the creaking floorboards were  drawn  to the developers 
attention, and neither was mentioned to Amtrust until around three months  after the end of 
the six-month period  which follows on from the end of the defects period.  So they both fail to 
be covered under this part of the policy.
They were  notified  during  the structural period. But as Amtrust  has said, the policy relies on 
when issues were discovered, not upon notification. So for claims to succeed the issue must 
have been discovered during the structural period.  Then,  assuming  that the problem Mr S 
has stems from a defect (as defined in the policy), that defect has to be causing major 
physical damage  to the structural  or waterproofing  parts of the home. And it is that damage  
which is covered and that Amtrust would have  to resolve in the event of a successful claim. 
For example if the nails on a roof were  defective  and six tiles had broken as a result  allowing 
water ingress, Amtrust  wouldnt  have to replace all the defective  nails, it would only have to 
resolve the damage, as covered by the policy, that had been caused. 
I appreciate that creaking floorboards are annoying, but they arent causing/havent caused  
damage. Nor have I seen that the lower  temperature in the bedroom has caused damage. 
So even were  the initial hurdles overcome, a claim under  this part of the cover  would be 
unlikely to succeed due to a lack of damage. And, more importantly for Mr S because  they 
are his major  concern, the defects themselves, which Mr S perceives as the creaking, a too 
small radiator and a lack of insulation, wouldnt actually have to be resolved. 
Ref: DRN23807533Overall Im satisfied that Amtrusts decline of the claims under both the defect and structural  
covers afforded  by the policy is fair and reasonable. Im not going to require it to accept 
either of them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Amtrust  Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380753