K820x#14complaint
Miss P, who is represented  by her mother,  Mrs P, complains that Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VFS) refused to let her reject a faulty  car.
background
In May 2018  Miss P bought a second and car funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
VFS. It was some three years old and had done  24,000 miles. In July the car broke down 
and was taken  to the dealership where  it was repaired. This took two weeks. In October it 
broke down  again and the dealership repaired the gearbox. Shortly  afterwards oil leaked 
from the gearbox and it was repaired  again.  It was serviced in February and in March a 
water pipe was repaired.
Miss P complained to VFS in March and it upheld  her complaint. It said that as the car had 
been repaired and returned to her it didnt consider it right to allow  her to reject it. However, it 
offered her £400  in recognition of the inconvenience she had suffered.
Miss P brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the various  repairs  and also that 
Miss P had accepted them each time. 
The dealership had confirmed all the repairs were  covered under warranty  at no cost to Miss 
P and she had been given  a courtesy  car each time. She noted VFS hadnt been  informed  
by Miss P until 22 March  after the repairs carried out. She thought  that if Miss P had told 
VFS about  the faults at the time rejection  may have been a possibility, subject to the 
dealership being given  one chance to make  repairs. However, as she hadnt done so the 
adjudicator didnt think VFS should  do anything further. She thought  the offer of £400 
compensation was fair.
Miss P didnt agree and said she hadnt realised she could  reject  the car and the dealer had 
told her it wasnt  possible  as the car was being  bought with a finance agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
Ref: DRN20089282the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have every sympathy with Miss P and her mother, but I find myself  in agreement with the 
adjudicator. It seems that there was good argument to say the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality when it bought by Miss P. If she had notified  VFS it would  have been  possible to 
have the car subjected  to an independent inspection  to establish if rejection was a 
possibility.
I can appreciate that neither Miss P, nor her mother were aware of the option to reject at that 
point, but it remains  that the repairs were accepted and the car taken back by Miss P. The 
garage or the warranty company has spent  money on those repairs  and it would be wrong to 
let Miss P reject the car now. I also note that she has made reasonable use of it and the 
latest mileage figure I have seen is for March 2019 when she had done some  14,000  miles 
since buying the car. 
Miss P says the dealer  either told her or suggested  that she couldnt reject  the car. I cannot  
say what was said, but I am determining a complaint against VFS and not the dealer and I 
am satisfied  that it was not aware  of the faults.
my final decision
VFS has already made an offer to pay £400  to settle the complaint  and I think  this offer is fair 
in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should pay £400. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2008928