K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about how Advantage  Insurance Company Limited  handled his car
insurance claim.
background
In July 2018, a drunk driver hit Mr N's car while it was parked  on the road outside his house.
He claimed on his car insurance with Advantage  and they passed  his claim onto a separate
credit hire company, that I will refer to as Company A. Advantage said Company A would
take on the repairs and provide a courtesy  car and that this would mean  Mr N wouldn't need
to pay his excess.
After it was assessed, the car was deemed  a write-off so the claim was passed back to
Advantage to settle. When Mr N received  the final valuation from Advantage, it included a
deduction for the excess. Mr N was unhappy as he said he had been told he wouldn't  have
to pay the excess.  He complained to Advantage.
Advantage explained that the excess would only not be payable  if repairs were  carried  out
by Company A. As the car had been written-off,  no repairs would be carried  out, so the claim
was handed back  to Advantage and the excess applied.  However,  they accepted that this
wasn't made  clear  to Mr N and offered £50 compensation  for poor service.
Mr N wasn't happy with this response. He also said the claim had taken much longer to
settle than it should have  and felt Advantage hadn't made an effort  to establish the other
driver was at fault.  Mr N also complained that he had applied for insurance for his
replacement car and the premium had increased  even  though  the car was an older model.
He made  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and thought that the £50 compensation offered by
Advantage was reasonable  in the circumstances. He said Advantage had assumed the car
could be repaired and that who was at fault would be easy to establish.  This is why the claim
was passed to Company A. However, as the car was written-off,  the claim had to be handed
back to Advantage  and the excess applied. He also explained that he had seen evidence
that Advantage had tried to contact  the other driver, to confirm  they were  at fault and that
this was reasonable. Finally, he explained  that the increase in premiums  on his new policy is 
due to his previous claim, which would be registered as a fault claim until liability is
established.
Mr N didn't agree with our investigator. He said Advantage should have been able to get the
other driver's insurer to accept responsibility, as he said he was able to at the scene of the
accident. He also said Advantage  had referred to it as a non-fault  claim throughout but it had
now been registered as a fault claim. He asked for the complaint to be looked at by an
ombudsman.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr N is unhappy that an excess has been deducted  from the claim,  when he was told he
wouldn't have  to pay one. He is also unhappy with how the claim has been handled by
Ref: DRN29607082Advantage and the length of time it has taken for them to establish the incident was the fault
of the other driver.  I will consider each of these  issues  in turn.
excess
I understand Mr N feels he has been  misled  about having to pay the excess  on his claim.
I've looked  at the information provided  to him and I can see why it may have caused  some
confusion. However,  I don't think Advantage treated Mr N unfairly  in charging the excess as
part of the claim. I'll explain why.
An excess  is a standard part of an insurance  policy and will usually apply to a claim. It is
described in Mr N's policy as "The  part of the claim  that you must  pay." It is therefore
reasonable that the assumption  should be that an excess will be payable when a claim is
made.
I can see Mr N received  a letter from the insurance  broker, on behalf of Advantage, that
explained that his claim would  be handed to Company A to see if they could carry out
repairs. The letter said "If they take on your hire and repairs, you won't  need  to pay your
excess of £345.00." Although Company  A did provide a hire car, they didn't take on the
repairs, as the car was written-off. As the claim was then handed back to Advantage, it is
reasonable that the exception outlined in that letter didn't apply. It's possible that Advantage
didn't make this clear  to Mr N, however he was only under the impression that he would
need to pay the excess  for a few days so I don't think the impact  would have been that great.
As Advantage have already given Mr N £50 compensation to make up for this, I think  this is
enough in the circumstances.
Further, Advantage have confirmed that they are currently  trying to recover  the cost of the
excess from the other driver's insurer and if they get this back,  it will be refunded  to Mr N.
establishing liability
Mr N says Advantage have taken  too long to settle  the claim with the other driver's insurer.
As Advantage issued their response  to Mr N's complaint about this particular issue  in
February 2019, I've only considered the delays up until that point.
I appreciate it would be frustrating to have to wait to get confirmation that the other  driver
accepts fault particularly because Mr N says he was able to establish this himself at the
scene. Advantage  have  provided evidence that they did contact the other driver's insurer
twice by email and by phone  before the complaint came to this service, but hadn't been able
to get confirmation from them about the claim. Advantage have to rely on information from
the other driver's insurer, who will be responsible  for contacting their insured. Mr N says he
went to the other driver's  house to try and establish a good time for them to call and was told
that the insurance company had only called him once and he wasn't  able to talk. All contact
with the other driver would be made through their own insurance  company. So if the other
driver says he hadn't received more than one call, then I can't say this is the fault of
Advantage.
Further, Advantage have explained that claims where the other driver was under the
influence of alcohol will often take longer  to resolve  as driving  under  the influence  usually
voids the policy cover for the incident  I think this is a reasonable explanation and I can see
that Advantage have made  attempts  to contact the other driver's insurance. So although I
appreciate the delay  in Advantage being able to establish fault from the other driver, I can't
Ref: DRN29607083say they are responsible for it.
Mr N is also unhappy that Advantage  referred  to his claim as 'non-fault throughout and it
wasn't until later that he was told that it had been  registered as a fault claim.  I appreciate that
this would be confusing  for Mr N, and I think Advantage could have done a better  job at
explaining why this is.
In order for a claim to be considered 'non-fault the insurer needs to get confirmation the
other driver was at fault. And until it has recovered  the costs, the claim is recorded as 'fault.
This doesn't  imply that the insurance  company believe  the incident is the fault of the insured,
it just means they haven't been able to recover the costs from the other side. Even though
Mr N says the other driver  accepted fault at the scene, this isn't enough for the insurer  to
register it as a non-fault claim. They need  to confirm this through  the other driver's insurer.
So although  I can't say Advantage have acted unfairly in how they registered the claim, I
think they should have made this clearer to Mr N, to avoid the distress and confusion  they
have caused him.
It is possible that the reason Mr N's new insurance quote had increased,  is due to fact the
claim was originally recorded as a fault claim. Since  the complaint came to this service,
Advantage have  recovered their costs from the other driver and have recorded the claim as
non-fault so this should remove any negative effect  on future quotes. Advantage have
advised that Mr N should  contact his current insurer to let them  know  that the claim is now
registered as non-fault  so that they can refund any difference  in premiums.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Advantage responded to say it accepts my provisional decision.
Mr N responded with no further comments other  than to check whether he would receive  a 
refund of his excess now that Advantage have recovered their costs.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I issued my provisional  decision, I have explained to Mr N that although Advantage 
have recovered  its costs from the other  drivers insurer,  it hasnt been  able to recover  the 
excess. I have had assurances  that if it does recover the excess this will be refunded  to 
Mr N, however this isnt guaranteed. I explained  why I think its fair that Mr N pays the 
excess in my provisional decision, so I agree this is fair.
As neither party had anything further to add, I can see no reason to depart from my original 
decision. Therefore,  for the reasons  given  in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Ns 
complaint and require Advantage to pay an additional £100 compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr N an additional  £100 compensation for the inconvenience its 
caused him. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr N has accepted my 
final decision. If Advantage  Insurance Company  Limited pay later than this they must also 
Ref: DRN29607084pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960708