K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about end of contract charges when he terminated  his agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS).
background
In May 2015  Mr B was supplied with a new car and entered into a hire purchase  agreement 
with VWFS.
Following termination  of the agreement in April 2018  the car was inspected and collected. 
VWFS subsequently asked Mr B to pay damage  charges.
Mr B disputes the charges. He says he returned  the car in good condition for its age and 
mileage.
In its final response VWFS said the inspection report showed damage  to the rear bumper 
which went beyond fair wear and tear and which was chargeable in accordance  with the 
terms and conditions of the agreement.
Mr B wasnt  happy with VWFSs response so he complained  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. The investigator said the inspection report 
(including the images) showed damage which went beyond fair wear and tear in accordance  
with the BVLRA  guidelines and that it was therefore reasonable for VWFS to apply charges.
Mr B didnt agree. He felt the charges  were  unreasonable and unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the hire purchase  agreement say that Mr B must return the car 
in good condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the images. This identifies damage to the rear 
bumper which VWFs says exceeds  fair wear  and tear and is therefore chargeable.
The damage to the bumper  is clearly  visible and Im satisfied that it exceeds fair wear  and 
tear in accordance with the guidelines and is therefore chargeable. 
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about  the car being in good condition  for its age 
and mileage. The car was approximately three years old when it was returned.  The BVLRA 
guidelines make  allowances  for damage to older vehicles but in this case  I cant  say that 
Mr Bs car is an old car. So whilst I would expect  a car which was several years old to show  
Ref: DRN27597772greater signs of wear and tear than a nearly  new car, this isnt a discretion which I think 
should be applied  in Mr Bs case.
I appreciate that Mr B feels that the charges are unfair and I know hell be disappointed by 
my decision.  However, Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond fair wear and tear and Ive 
not seen anything to suggest  that the charges are excessive or unreasonable.  Im therefore 
unable to ask VWFS to waive the charges.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2759777