K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the response  that Coutts & Company  made to his Subject Access 
Request.
background
Mr H made  a loan application  to Coutts  which was turned  down. Since then, he has raised 
complaints against  Coutts. This complaint deals with a Subject Access  Request (SAR) that 
he made in August 2017. Mr H asked for all the information he was entitled  to in 
relation to all credit,  borrowing, and lending decisions on his various accounts (including  
mortgage, overdraft,  loan and credit  card) for the past six years, specifically including  an 
internal credit/lending assessments, memos, analysis and decisions. 
Mr H said that Coutts didnt respond  to that request until the deadline, and then only said 
that it couldnt find a lot of the information.  He had complained,  and he said that Coutts 
continued to fudge the issue  until mid-November, when it sent some of the missing 
documents, but not all of them. Mr H said that Coutts  final reply just glossed over omissions 
and didnt address  them.  Mr H said that he wanted Coutts to actually comply with his SAR,  
and not just say it had done so.
Coutts wrote  to Mr H acknowledging  his request on 5 September 2017. It said then that his 
request was for . personal  information in relation to all credit,  borrowing  and lending  
decisions on your accounts, including mortgage, overdraft, loan and credit  card for the past 6 
years 
Coutts sent a small amount of information  to Mr H on 2 October. It said then that it had only 
been able to locate limited  information regarding his recent contact  about  his Silk card, and 
his current account  overdraft. Mr H said that didnt fulfil his request. He sent Coutts  a copy of 
his mortgage statement, and asked why Coutts  hadnt been able to find that.
Coutts sent him a letter in early December,  which said it had understood that it was only 
being asked to send him information related to lending applications that had been processed  
by its credit department.  It said that it was sorry for this misunderstanding.  It had sent him a 
full set of documentation in mid-November,  and it had waived the fee that it was then entitled 
to charge for this.  
Coutts said that it wasnt aware of any documentation which hadnt been included  in its 
second reply to Mr H. So our adjudicator asked Mr H about that. Mr H said that this second 
response didnt  include  any information about the mortgage he had with Coutts from 2013, 
and a charge  card and overdraft he had between  2011  and 2017.  He said that he was 
annoyed that Coutts can ignore SAR procedures at will, and that our service seemed happy  
to allow  it do this with impunity. He said that at the least he would expect us to confirm that 
Coutts were in breach of SAR and DPA regulations, so he could refer matters  to the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO)  for action. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that it isnt our services role to consider 
if a business has properly fulfilled a SAR.  He said that would be for the ICO to decide. He 
could consider if it was fair and reasonable to tell Coutts to pay compensation for what had 
happened in this case. And he didnt think it was. He said that Coutts had issued its 
response to Mr H 39 days after his request. And it had sent what it believed was required. 
Ref: DRN25094522Mr H said Coutts still hadnt sent all the documents  that it should, but our adjudicator said 
that this would also be something  that the ICO should consider. As Coutts had sent Mr H 
what it thought  was required, within the required timescale, he didnt think  that Coutts had to 
pay any compensation. It had waived the SAR fee which was required at the time, and our 
adjudicator thought that provided a fair outcome  in this case.
Mr H said that he was very disappointed with our response. He said that Coutts must have 
breached the SAR,  because it had sent some items in October, then further items in 
November and December, but still not everything  he had asked for. And he said he needed 
that information to understand  why Coutts  had refused  to provide him with a loan and a 
mortgage. He said he hadnt been able to hold Coutts to account  because it hadnt supplied  
the requested  information. 
Mr H said that our service is the signposted dispute  resolution service and we shouldnt  just 
pass this off to the ICO. He said he was going  to go to the ICO in due course,  but in the 
meantime he wanted our service to rule that Coutts  did not act fairly, because  it did not 
provide the information that it was required to. 
Mr H wanted an ombudsman to consider  his complaint, so it was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Our adjudicator explained to Mr H that it isnt the role of this service  to decide if a 
business has breached data protection  laws. That is for the ICO to decide. 
-Mr H pointed out that we are the signposted  service. Its right to say that Coutts 
response to Mr Hs complaint said he could  bring a complaint  to our service. But thats 
because Coutts  is obliged to include that wording by the regulations  that cover it as a 
financial business. Those say that anyone who complains must be told that they can 
bring a complaint to us. Those rules are not detailed  enough to distinguish between 
different sorts of complaints.
-As our adjudicator said, our service isnt the expert on data protection. Thats  the ICO. 
So if Mr H wants  a decision on whether Coutts  has complied with data protection  laws in 
what it has sent him, hell need  to approach the ICO about  that. 
-There was one point  in this case I could consider. I thought  that when Coutts wrote to 
Mr H in December about his complaint, it accepted that it hadnt initially properly 
understood his data protection  request. That read to me as an acceptance that the data 
it had issued within the deadline wasnt sufficient  to comply with Mr Hs request. I thought 
that Coutts had accepted it had breached that requirement. In that case,  I could consider 
whether it was fair and reasonable to tell Coutts to pay compensation to Mr H, or take 
any other action to recognise  the impact of whats happened.
-I thought that Coutts should  pay Mr H £50 in compensation for that breach, to make up 
for the inconvenience  he then faced as a result.  
Ref: DRN25094523-This decision  was limited, for the reasons I set out. I couldnt make  any decision on 
whether or not Coutts had now remedied this breach, because I wasnt able to reach a 
view on whether what Coutts finally sent did comply with the requirements of the relevant 
data protection  law, or not. I noted that Mr H had pointed  to a number of lending  
decisions which he said werent  covered in the documentation Coutts eventually sent. As 
noted above, Mr H could refer that question to the ICO should he choose  to.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Coutts said it had no further comments. It wanted  us to let it know  if Mr H said anything  
further. Mr H sent us a letter hed received from Coutts, saying that it was going to close  his 
accounts with it. He said that this was how Coutts dealt with customers  who complain  to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
As Coutts  had specifically  asked to be notified  if Mr H offered any further evidence or 
comment, we told it that hed drawn our attention to the letter hed received,  notifying him 
that his accounts  with Coutts were going to be closed. Coutts said that was a separate  
matter, unrelated to this complaint.
I can understand why Mr H wanted  our service to be aware of this development. But he 
hasnt asked us to consider the account  closure  as part of this decision. And I dont think I 
should do that. Ive not seen anything to suggest  that Mr H has complained about the 
closure of his accounts to Coutts. And Id normally expect someone  to discuss a problem 
with the business first, before raising it with us. I also note that Coutts has said that its 
decision to close Mr Hs accounts is unrelated to this complaint. So, on balance,  I dont think 
it would  be in the best interests of both sides for me to pause  this case now to investigate  
this new issue. 
Ill now make  the decision  I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Coutts & Company must  pay Mr H £50 in respect  of its admission of 
initially not properly  understanding  his Subject Access  Request. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2509452