K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Mrs F have complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Bank  of 
Scotland) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy  when 
they were applying for a mortgage  in 2002. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mr E and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
The first thing to say is Ive looked  at whether Bank  of Scotland  made  it sufficiently clear to 
Mr E and Mrs F that the policy was optional. Some of the paperwork  from the time of the 
sale is no longer  available. In addition, Mr E and Mrs F told us that they dont remember a lot 
about the sale. However this isnt unusual in sales where a lot of time has passed since  the 
policy was sold and since the mortgage was redeemed.  But Mr E and Mrs F were  able to tell 
us that they recall being told that their application would be looked  on more positively if they 
took out the MPPI.
I cant be sure what was said during  the meeting when  the policy was sold.  I accept its 
possible the adviser may have said something  to make Mr E and Mrs F think they needed to 
take the policy and thats why they agreed to take it out. But from what  we know about how 
these particular policies  were sold around this time,  Mr E and Mrs F would have been given 
a clear choice during  the sale about whether  to take or decline the MPPI.  Ive carefully 
considered what  theyve told us. But overall Ive concluded that its more likely  that it would 
have been made clear  to them that the MPPI was optional.  So without stronger evidence 
that the adviser said or did something  to make Mr E and Mrs F think  they had to take the 
PPI, I dont think I can fairly uphold the complaint on this basis.
Next Ive considered  whether the policy was suitable  for Mr E and Mrs F. First of all, there 
were rules  about who could qualify  for the policy and based on the information thats been 
provided to us, it looks like they met those rules.  So I think theyd have been able to claim on 
the policy if they needed to.
Ive checked the main  exclusions and restrictions of the policy and given their 
circumstances, it doesnt look like Mr E and Mrs F would have been caught by any of them.
Ref: DRN29410762Next, Mr E and Mrs F told us that they were  entitled  to full sick pay and redundancy pay for 
between three to six months. But I dont think this is enough for me to say the MPPI wasnt  
suitable. Policies like this are there to reduce the pressure  of meeting payments in financially  
difficult times. If Mr E and Mrs F were  too ill to work  or were made unemployed, the policy 
would have covered their mortgage repayment  for up to 2 years. This would have given 
them peace  of mind and security. It would have  allowed them  to use any sick pay or 
redundancy monies for other necessary household  expenses,  and it would have allowed 
them to preserve their savings. 
So overall, having considered all these  factors, I think that the recommendation was suitable 
for them, and I think the MPPI would have provided them with a useful benefit which was 
affordable for them. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Mr E and Mrs F information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the 
MPPI. Ive considered  the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt give them clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  
But the cost was comparable to the cost of other, similar policies available  at the time. And 
its possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But in 
light of their circumstances Mr E and Mrs F wouldnt  have been affected  by any of those 
things. On balance,  I dont think having  better information would have dissuaded them  from 
buying the PPI. So overall,  I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr E and Mrs F but for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2941076