K820x#14the complaint
Mr and Mrs F say TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact  on them.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr and Mrs F say this led to a 
payment of £750  going missing from their accounts in June 2018. 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She didnt agree that there  was any money missing. 
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy, so another adjudicator looked at the case  again. But he 
also didnt think there was any missing money  from Mr and Mrs Fs accounts.  
Mr and Mrs F maintain that £750 has gone missing  and feel that TSB should  repay  them this 
amount, plus interest, so the case has been  passed to me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, dont think  TSB has done  anything  wrong here. 
Ive looked carefully  at the statements for the three accounts Mr and Mrs F have referred to, 
focusing on the 11 and 12 June 2018  as this is when they say the payment went  missing. 
Having done so, I cant see that there is a missing  payment. All the payments between the 
accounts, and into and out of the accounts,  resolve  to give the correct balance  we see at the 
end of the day on 12 June. 
The accounts in question are a savings  account  with TSB, a TSB current account, and a 
current account held with Lloyds Bank.
At the start of the day on 11 June 2018, the total balance across the three accounts  was 
£7,250. Over the course of the 11 and 12 June Mr and Mrs F transferred £750 from the 
savings account  into the TSB current account,  and then from the TSB current  account to the 
Lloyds current account. They  also transferred  £227.75 from the Lloyds current  account to the 
TSB current account. None of these transactions affected the combined  overall  balance  of 
the three accounts,  as the funds  werent  going  to any external recipient.
Over the same period,  £12.46 was paid into the accounts from an external source, and 
£1,512.46 was paid out of the accounts  to external recipients (credit cards  and other  
accounts Mr and Mrs F appear to have  held elsewhere). These  transactions did affect the 
overall combined balance as they were either entering or leaving the system of three 
accounts we are discussing here. Once  these payments  have been  added or subtracted 
from the start balance  of £7,250 we are left with a combined balance  across the three 
accounts of £5,750, and this is what Mr and Mrs Fs statements shows.
After taking everything into account  I am satisfied  that there is no money  missing  from 
Mr and Mrs Fs accounts, so it follows that I dont  think TSB has done anything  wrong  here.
my final decision
Ref: DRN21686982For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2168698