K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2002  by post. The policy was taken out 
at the same  time as Mr B applied for the credit card. It gave him accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint, Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made Mr B aware the PPI was optional and he chose  to take it. I say this as 
Mr B ticked  a Yes box on his application form indicating  that he wanted it. And the PPI was 
listed in a section  headed Optional Benefits.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt need to check  if it was suitable for him. 
This means it was up to Mr B to decide  whether the policy  was right for him bearing in mind his 
other ways to make his credit card repayments if his circumstances changed.
Mr Bs representative argues with better information on the cost versus the benefit of the policy  
Mr B wouldnt have  taken out PPI as he had good work  benefits. I agree its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been. But Mr B 
chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have  wanted this type of cover. He wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  
Whilst he was entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay from his employer if he 
was sick, the PPI would  have  paid out in addition  to this and for up to 12 months. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr B wouldve  made a different decision if better information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ref: DRN23175902The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision  before 15 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2317590