K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) have failed to take responsibility for the 
actions of their agents in the negotiation of a finance agreement.
background
In 2017 Mr T says he bought a car from a dealership who Ill call L. He says he paid cash 
for the car but had problems with it.
So he reached an agreement with L. They agreed  to take the car back,  fix it and sell it. They 
sourced a new vehicle for Mr T and convinced him that it would be best to fund this vehicle 
through a finance agreement. They  promised  to pay the monthly  instalments  on the finance 
agreement until the old car was sold and the proceeds could be used  to settle it.
So Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement with BMF in March  2018 to fund his 
replacement car. L paid his finance  instalments for a time but then disappeared. So Mr T 
complained to BMF. He said that L were  acting as their agents and that they should  take 
responsibility.
BMF didnt agree with Mr T. They said they were  unaware of the arrangement he had with L 
and would not have sanctioned it had they known.  
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our investigator  provided his opinion.  He 
didnt think it would  be fair to hold BMF  accountable for the actions of L as they were a 
different entity.  
But Mr T disagreed and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr T so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Ts situation.  I can imagine its been a frustrating  series  of 
events but Im afraid that, whilst he appears  to have grounds to pursue the dealership about 
these problems, I dont  think it would be fair to hold BMF accountable. 
Ref: DRN26413932The relevant  legislation  explains that finance providers are liable for what  is said by credit 
brokers before the consumer takes out a credit agreement. But thats  in relation to the 
agreement that is being negotiated. 
The dispute  here is about the agreement Mr T reached independently  with L about what to 
do with his old car. Thats not something  BMF had anything  to do with. 
The hire purchase agreement Mr T signed with BMF held him accountable  for payments to 
the agreement  and BMF are therefore  not being  unreasonable pursuing him for these  
payments. So whilst I have every sympathy  for Mr Ts situation  I dont  think  its fair to expect 
BMF to take responsibility  for the issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2641393