K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a non fault claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs M made  a claim on her Aviva  policy following an accident. Shes unhappy  with the time 
it took to get the repairs completed. She says Avivas approved repairers  delayed  matters 
and the replacement vehicle provided by the credit  hire company wasnt suitable for use in 
her business. She says this has resulted in her suffering  £4,600 loss of earnings.
Aviva said in its final response that Mrs M was involved in an incident  on 6 January 2018. A 
couple of weeks  later she complained about a lack of progress in completing the repairs.  Its 
approved repairer  said it was waiting for parts and Mrs M was given  an estimated completion 
date of 7 February  2018. But this was dependent on the parts  arriving.  Due to this delay she 
moved the car to a garage of her choice  and she was told shed have to pay an additional  
non approved repairer excess. The work to Mrs Ms car was completed on 15 March  2018.  
It appears the delay  from 10 January to 8 February 2018 was caused  by the repairer not 
ordering the parts. Due to the poor service Mrs M has received Aviva has agreed to waive 
the £200 non approved repairer excess and pay her £300 compensation. Where a customer  
hasnt a courtesy car under  the terms of the policy Aviva may refer them to a credit hire 
company. But that isnt a service provided  by Aviva. Its a separate agreement  between the 
customer and that company  and Mrs M should take up any complaint about the car provided 
with the hire company. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Aviva  has acknowledged the delay caused by its approved repairer. This was caused  
by a ramp not being  available and delays in getting parts. These  were  unavoidable. 
Avivas approved repairer estimated  the repairs would take about a month which  
appears reasonable as it subsequently  took Mrs Ms garage a month to carry out the 
repairs. The repairs to her car wouldve always taken some time.
Aviva  has waived  and will refund the £200  non approved repairer excess Mrs M has 
paid and offered  her £300 compensation for the poor service she received. Thats fair 
and reasonable.
Mrs Ms policy doesnt provide  a courtesy  car. And he cannot therefore hold Aviva  
responsible for any delay in her getting a replacement or suitable vehicle. Any issues  
with the credit hire companies or her lawyers should be taken up with them directly.
Mrs M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary she says 
progress was only made after she complained about  the approved repairer  to Aviva.  She 
wasnt given the choice of using her own repairer. Avivas engineer shouldve seen her car 
earlier and its approved repairer  shouldve got the parts more  quickly.  She was left without  a 
suitable vehicle  for over two months.  This led to a drop in her income  from her business 
amounting to over £4,000. The accident  wasnt  her fault yet shes  been left considerably  out 
of pocket. 
Ref: DRN21328972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Ms frustration at what has happened. 
As the investigator  has said, all repairs to a car after an accident, regardless of whose fault it 
was, will take some time to assess and complete.
But the repairs in this case took a little longer than they shouldve  done. Aviva has accepted  
its approved repairer  delayed matters. That will have caused  Mrs M some distress  and 
inconvenience. And its fair shes compensated for that. Aviva has offered her £300 for this. 
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think thats fair. It 
has also waived and will refund the £200  non approved repairer excess she paid. Thats  also 
reasonable.
Mrs M says she wasnt aware she could use another repairer but her policy  outlined  that she 
could and that an additional excess would  apply if she did.
Mrs M is also unhappy that she wasnt offered a replacement vehicle by a credit hire 
company that was suitable for her business as a gardener. But although Aviva may have put 
her in touch  with a credit  hire company it isnt responsible for what  that company  does  or the 
agreement Mrs M enters into with it. So, if Mrs M is unhappy with the service  shes  received 
from any credit hire company she must take that up directly with the company involved.  
Mrs M wants  Aviva to compensate  her for over £4,000 of lost earnings.  But I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Aviva to do so. Not only has no evidence been  provided to support 
this claimed loss but as Ive said above  Aviva isnt responsible for what  the credit  hire 
companies mayve done.
In addition Mrs M has a duty to mitigate her losses. But I dont think shes  done so here. If 
she needs a replacement vehicle or one of a particular style or usage she shouldve  taken 
out a policy  that would provide a courtesy  car or a suitable replacement.  And as her Aviva  
policy didnt do so she has an obligation  to find one for herself  whether through  the credit 
hire companies or directly from another source. 
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mrs Ms frustration and strength of 
feeling, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require Aviva to do anything  more than its 
already offered to do. So I simply leave  it to Mrs M to decide, if she hasnt  done  so already, if 
she now swishes to accept Avivas  offer of compensation.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ref: DRN21328973Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2132897