K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Ms S says National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think NatWest  made it clear that Ms S didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out, having signed  separately  for it  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Ms S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms S got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means NatWest doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But NatWest  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because NatWest  didnt tell Ms S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said, including what shes said about  savings she 
had. But these points  dont change my decision.  It appears those savings were earmarked 
for home improvements and a wedding. So the PPI wouldve  protected  those savings in 
case Ms S was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN21217452what the business needs  to do
NatWest has to pay back to Ms S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back  to Ms S any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
NatWest should  re-work  the credit  card account  and pay back  to Ms S the difference 
between what Ms S owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest  should also pay Ms S 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms S can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Ms S any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2121745