K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) applied unfair 
charges to his account when he voluntarily terminated his hire purchase  agreement.  And he 
further complains it chased him for a debt he didnt owe and recorded  negative information 
on his credit file. He wants the charges  refunded, the default removed and compensation.
background
Mr W tells us that on 28 September 2018  he notified VWFS of his intention to voluntarily  
terminate (VT) his finance agreement.  But he says VWFS later charged  him £665 for an 
overdue payment  it claimed he owed. And when he complained he said it ignored his 
complaint and continued to chase the debt. He says he received phone calls,  letters  and a 
default notice  about this debt - which he said he didnt owe.  He said whilst VWFS has now 
agreed to remove the debt and amend his credit file he doesnt  think the £100 which VWFS  
offered is sufficient. And he doesnt  think it is fair that it is holding it against  the disputed  
charge for damage.
VWFS told us it had not received Mr Ws notice of VT until 1 October  2018  and replied  to 
him on 3 October. It said it had terminated  the agreement on 12 October. It accepted  there 
had been a breakdown  in communication and said it recognised the worry its arrears letters 
caused. VWFS stated that it didnt consider there  had been reasonable time available to 
process the VT before the direct debit payment became due. But it had decided to waive  the 
payment and had removed  the late payment markers from Mr Ws credit  file. It said it had 
applied the damage charges fairly as well as remitting £21 in respect of a scratch on the 
door. This had left £129.60 remaining which was due to be paid. VWFS  confirmed it had also 
offered Mr W £100 compensation to be credited to his account or against the charges for 
damage. It later increased this to £129.60  to cover  the whole damage charge.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 August 2019.  I found the damage 
charge of £129.60 had been  correctly applied. I also thought  that VWFS had been entitled to 
seek repayment of the £665 arrears. This was due to the monthly payments on the 
agreement only being made in arrears.  But VWFS had later agreed that Mr W had been  
caused distress and inconvenience by delays in its dealing with his complaint. As it had 
waived the £665 - and had also offered compensation to offset the whole of the damage 
charge - I thought that was a fair and reasonable resolution of the complaint.
Since I issued my provisional  decision VWFS has replied and said it agreed with this and 
had removed the outstanding balance from Mr Ws account. Mr W replied saying he didnt 
think Id offered an opinion on what he considered key issues.  And he wished me to 
reconsider alleged breaches  of the rules  by VWFS regarding disputes and the collection of 
disputed payments. He also felt that VWFS was deliberately trying  to deny customers the 
legal rights under section  99 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 by adding additional 
requirements to the VT process.
I thank the parties  for their replies.  Ive considered carefully what the parties have said but I 
see no reason to change the terms of my provisional decision. Ill deal with the issues  which  
Mr W has raised in his reply in my final decision which is set out below. 
Ref: DRN26157322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr W has experienced  a good deal of inconvenience and frustration at the 
events which  followed his decision to VT his hire purchase agreement. This ought to have  
been a reasonably straightforward process but its proved to be rather  more  problematic than 
should have been the case. Having said that I dont agree with everything  put forward  by 
Mr W in respect  of VWFS chasing  him for payment of £665.
Where there are matters  of fact or other  issues in dispute - as is the case  here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I decide  what is the most likely 
explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  to what  
the parties tell us, and we also look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach a 
decision. Finally, and importantly, we look at what is fair and reasonable.
Ive been given a large  amount of information  and Ive read everything  with which  Ive been 
provided. But if dont  refer to a specific  item its not that I havent taken it on board. Its 
because I dont think it necessary to refer to it separately in order  to give the reasons for my 
final decision.
Ill deal first with the issue of the damage  charges. These were  imposed following an 
inspection which took place on 9 November 2018.  The charges related to scratch  marks to a 
door and three alloy wheels. The report was accompanied by good quality colour  
photographs. VWFS  later waived a charge  of £21 in respect of the door - which  left a 
remaining balance of £129.60.
Our adjudicator correctly  explained that in assessing  charges relating  to damage to a vehicle 
that was new when supplied, we look to the guidelines issued by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA). And we also have  regard  for any specific  contractual  
terms. As he described the damage that was shown in the photographs and compared it to 
the relevant BVRLA guidelines I neednt  repeat  it here.  Ill simply say that I think that the 
damage fell outside  the wear and tear guidelines  and VWFS was entitled  to apply the 
charges.
Turning to the question of the payment of £665 - which initially led to the complaint - I can 
see that VWFS accepts that it didnt handle this as well as it might  be expected. It refers to a 
breakdown in communication and a delay in addressing Mr Ws concerns. Im aware  this 
aspect forms a major part of Mr Ws complaint - as it also led to collection processes being  
commenced and the adverse entries  on his credit file.
Although its now apologised,  waived  the £665 payment and removed the late payment 
markers from Mr Ws credit file I dont think VWFS initially did anything  wrong in seeking to 
collect this payment. Ill explain in detail why Ive reached this conclusion.
During the enquires into his complaint Mr W has made a number of references to Section 99 
of the Consumer Credit  Act, 1974. I dont apply the law - directly  - but I do take it into 
account.
Ref: DRN2615732399.  Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1) At any time before  the final payment  by the debtor  under  a regulated  hire-purchase or 
regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor  shall be entitled  to terminate the 
agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or authorised to receive the sums  payable 
under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability  under the 
agreement which has accrued before the termination.
Im not entirely sure how Mr W thinks this legislation advances his case  as its not in doubt  
that he was entitled to terminate his agreement. And its equally clear that any liability  which 
had already accrued before the termination is not affected.
Mr W says the finance contract  doesnt  mention payments being in arrears.  Whilst theres  no 
specific mention of this, the way in which payments are structured shows this to be the case. 
The first monthly payment  is not due until at least one month after the date of the agreement.
The relevant  term states:
You must pay the Advance Payment to us when you sign this Agreement.  You must  then 
make: one repayment of £665,00 on a date set by us (which will be at least one month after 
the date of this Agreement); followed by 47 monthly repayments  of £665.00, on the same 
date of each successive month;  followed  by a final payment of £x  payable 48 months  after 
the date set for the first repayment.
So Mr W has had use of the vehicle  for the month  before  the first monthly instalment is paid. 
Although he makes reference  to the lump  sum advance payment, this only has the effect of 
reducing the amount of the monthly payments - as it reduces the amount of credit  needed.  It 
doesnt affect the period  of use they refer to.
When Mr W wrote to VWFS  on 28 September  2018, the payment due on 1 October  had 
already accrued as it referred to the previous months use of the vehicle. The effect of Mr 
Ws letter  was to terminate the agreement before the next payment  (1 November)  was due. 
And although its likely Mr Ws letter was received on 1 October  that had no bearing on his 
liability to make the payment due on that date.
Mr W says VWFS imposed an unnecessary additional requirement  by requiring a form to be 
completed with details of the VT arrangements. And he suggests  this is done to delay the 
date of termination and thus deprive customers of their rights  under section 99.
I should explain that as this service  is not the industry regulator  - thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority  - its not for us to dictate what processes a business  employs.
But in any event I dont  agree with his characterisation of the process - which seems to me 
only to be trying to ensure  a customer is fully aware of the implications of the VT. I think  its 
only fair and reasonable to allow VWFS adequate time to process the VT request.
And I cant see that VWFS  has made  any additional charge to Mr W for any delay that might 
have been occasioned. After he had terminated the agreement the only contractual payment 
sought was the £665  which  had already accrued.
Ref: DRN26157324I should also clarify that nothing in my provisional  decision  was intended to suggest that 
payments might be due up to the date of collection of the vehicle. Subject to any contractual  
terms to the contrary,  Id expect payments to be due up to the date of termination of the 
agreement.
Mr W has said he believes VWFS  breached rules in relation to the collection of the arrears  
and he refers specifically  to:
CONC 7.5.3 
A firm must not ignore  or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been  settled or is 
disputed and must not continue to make demands  for payment without providing clear 
justification and/or evidence  as to why the customers claim is not valid.
CONC 7.14.1 
A firm must suspend any steps  it takes  or its agent takes in the recovery  of a debt from a 
customer where the customer disputes  the debt on valid grounds  or what may be valid 
grounds.
He claims he didnt  receive any justification/evidence as to why his claim wasnt  valid. 
Again, as Im not the regulator, its not for me to make a formal  finding as to whether the 
rules have been breached. But I dont think that VWFS  acted  improperly in the way it sought 
to collect the arrears. Where I think that VWFS made an error was in the explanations it 
gave to Mr W.
VWFS has accepted there was a delay in processing Mr Ws complaint and it was during  this 
time that it commenced  efforts  to recover the missing  payment.
Ive seen an email sent by VWFS to Mr W on 19 October 2018  which  reads:
The arrears are in relation to the payment due on 01 October  2018.  Your  request to 
voluntary terminate your agreement was received 09 October  2018.  As such the payment 
due 01 October 2018 remains outstanding.
And theres  a further email, along similar lines, sent on 22 October 2018.
Ive already said I think VWFS had valid grounds for believing the arrears  were owed and 
that it was entitled  to seek to collect them. But from these emails its clear  that the 
justification being given for the arrears  is in relation to the date on which  Mr Ws request for 
VT was supposedly  received.  It should  have advised  him that the payment was due because 
the monthly payments were made in arrears.
I think this was an inadvertent error and I dont think it made any difference  to the actions  
VWFS took regarding collection of the debt. If it had given Mr W the correct reason it would 
still have been  able to continue with its attempts at collection of the debt.
As its now waived the payment of this debt I think that is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
reflect the errors made.
Ref: DRN26157325VWFS recorded that the decision to waive the payment was taken on 4 January 2019  and 
this was formally confirmed in a final response  letter of 9 January 2019. Wed normally  
expect businesses to respond to complaints  as soon as possible but the rules  permit up to 
eight weeks. The delay  here was about five weeks. And its on this finding that Im basing  my 
decision about the overall level of redress to be awarded in this case. 
In summary,  I find VWFS was entitled  to seek payment  of the £665 and that the damage 
charges were fairly  imposed. But its not disputed that Mr W was caused distress and 
inconvenience by the delay in dealing with his complaint which  ultimately led to the disputed 
payment being  waived.
Id normally expect a compensation award in respect of distress  and inconvenience  to be 
paid direct to a consumer.  But here I think there  are proper  grounds for applying it to offset  
the damage charge.
VWFS made its offer conditional on it being  offset  against the damage  charge. It had already  
waived a sum of £665 which I think it was legitimately entitled  to charge Mr W. This in itself 
provided a significant direct financial  benefit  to Mr W. So I think  its fair and reasonable to 
offset the additional compensation against  the sum owed by Mr W in respect of the damage 
charge.
It also has the effect of bringing to an end the financial relationship  between  the parties 
which arose out of this agreement. As that was Mr Ws intention when he sought to VT the 
agreement I think its a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I uphold the complaint but only in part.
I find the charges  for damage  were applied fairly and I do not uphold this aspect  of the 
complaint.
I also find that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited was entitled to seek  to collect 
the debt of £665 which had arisen  under the agreement. I find that it didnt act improperly in 
doing so. I do not uphold  this aspect of the complaint.
I find that Mr W was given  incorrect  information  regarding the reasons for the arrears having 
arisen and this caused him distress an inconvenience. I uphold the complaint to this extent  
only.
I require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, in full and final settlement of this 
complaint, to credit Mr Ws account  with the sum of £129.60.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2615732