K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  taken out in 1999.  
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  them the MPPI.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1999. They paid a monthly amount
for the policy. The policy covered just Mr T for accident, sickness  and unemployment. And
the cover  automatically  increased when Mr and Mrs T took out further advances in 2000,
2004 and potentially 2015.
I sent Mr and Mrs T and Lloyds my provisional  decision on 1 March  2019. I said that before I 
made my final decision Id look at anything  else anyone sent me, so long as I got it before 
1 April 2019.
In response to my provisional decision Mr T has said, in summary, that:
He thinks the situation is unfair. His claims for unemployment and sickness  were  refused 
because the policy  had certain restrictions. They were told the cover would benefit them 
but it didnt. 
Lloyds was given an extension on producing its evidence. It phoned him to check about 
his savings  and sick pay, but it appears  this wasnt relevant. 
Ive said Lloyds  increased the policy when they took further advances in 2000, 2004 and 
2015. But the cover wasnt increased in 2015. 
He was told he was ineligible for the policy because they took out the mortgage.
Its bad that banks can sell policies knowing they will not pay out of them when required. 
There are flaws in Lloyds evidence. 
Lloyds did not send me any new comments or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr T has sent to me in response to my provisional 
decision  not just the points as Ive summarised  them above. I understand Mr and Mrs T will 
be disappointed. However, Ive reached the same  conclusions  and for the same  reasons as 
in my provisional decision.  Ive explained my reasons again below, with some  further  
comments where appropriate to address Mr Ts recent points.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ref: DRN21676782It appears from the mortgage paperwork from 1999 that Mr and Mrs T were given a 
choice and decided  to take out the MPPI to cover  Mr T. And I havent seen enough other  
evidence to make me think  they werent otherwise given  a choice.  So I think  Lloyds  made 
it clear that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it 
out.
Lloyds recommended  the MPPI  to Mr T so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances  at the time, I think that it 
was. For example Mr T wasnt  affected, at the time of sale,  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover. Ive taken into 
account what  Mr and Mrs T have said about Mr Ts sick pay entitlement  and savings at 
the time  because  these can, sometimes, affect the suitability of the cover. But the 
mortgage was an important long-term  financial commitment  secured on their home. The 
policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim  if Mr T lost his job or couldnt work, 
irrespective of sick pay or savings, at what couldve been quite a difficult time. And Ive 
not seen sufficient evidence to make  me think the level of Mr Ts sick pay and savings 
was such that the cover wasnt still a sensible precaution.  So I dont think I can say it was 
wrong for Lloyds  to recommend  the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr and Mrs T about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for them  if something  went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put them  off taking out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mr and Mrs T.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said  including  what  theyve said about 
the claims on the policy Mr T later made.  But even though those claims might not have 
proceeded as Mr and Mrs T wouldve liked or expected, the cover  provided was subject to 
the full policy  terms and conditions. Its not my role to assess  the claims in this decision, and 
neither have Mr and Mrs T asked me to. But Im satisfied  that even if Lloyds had given 
Mr and Mrs T better information about the cover  at the outset  as already explained above 
 that this wouldnt have put them off taking out the cover. The cover inevitably had certain  
restrictions; Ive not seen anything that makes me think  Mr T wouldve thought at the time of 
sale that there was any reason why he would  be more  likely not to be able to claim because 
of these restrictions; and the policy could still have  paid out if Mr T had lost of his job or been  
unable to work if the claims  criteria  had been met. The fact that these claims failed does  not 
mean the policy could  not have been useful   only that the claims Mr T made werent paid. 
So for these reasons, and the reasons explained above, these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
Ref: DRN21676783what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. Lloyds should 
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2167678