K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its agreed in this case that London General Insurance  Company Limited  (LGI) as the 
insurer accepts responsibility  for the complaint. So from now on, to keep things simple, Ill 
just refer to LGI as the seller.
background
Ms B took out a loan over 48 months  in 2004 to buy a car. Ms B also took payment protector 
policy at the same time. Ms B recalls this happening  during a telephone call. The policy  
provided Life, Accidental Death, Key Protection & Critical Illness  covers. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that LGI hadnt demonstrated that Ms B 
had taken the payment protector policy cover knowing she had a choice to do so. Our 
adjudicator felt that if Ms B had been given  a choice about buying  the cover, she wouldnt 
have wanted to pay for it. 
LGI disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said (in summary):
- the acceptance  form sent to Ms B contained  a summary of cover  and it was up to Ms B 
to check the documentation  and to satisfy herself whether  the policy was fit for purpose 
based on her circumstances.
-the acceptance form included a contact telephone number Ms B couldve called if she 
had any queries or concerns about  the policy,  so she probably happy  with the cover the 
policy provided.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Bs case. Where the evidence is incomplete  (as some of it is here), I have based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider  is most likely 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
LGI had to gain Ms Bs agreement to the cover and needed to make  it clear that the cover  
was optional. Ms B told us that she was sold the loan and the cover during a telephone call. 
No evidence has been provided to undermine this testimony. Ms B also told us that she was 
made to feel that she had to take the cover to get the loan. 
Ref: DRN25439932Its not straightforward deciding cases like this when there is little or no evidence from the 
point of sale, albeit  that its understandable,  considering these events occurred over 15 
years ago. LGI has not provided any telephone recordings  that might  have shed light on 
what was said to Ms B at the time she decided to take the cover.  Neither has it provided any 
scripts of what the representative may have  been expected to say during such  a telephone 
sale. Sometimes in the absence of such things an application form can be helpful in 
suggesting what is most likely to have been said at the time. In this case  neither party has 
been able to provide any documentation  from the point of sale.
So I have  no evidence  that undermines the testimony that Ms B has provided that she only 
took the policy because she was led to believe she had to take it. 
We do have a letter dated 21 April 2004  that was sent to Ms B after the sale. It provided  a 
certificate of Insurance, a summary of the cover provided, and some terms and conditions of 
the policy. This was sent after Ms B had decided to take the cover  so it doesnt speak to the 
degree of choice Ms B felt she had at the point  of sale. 
The business has said that because the letter  encourages  Ms B to read the terms and 
conditions, that she would  have done  so and must have continued with the policy  having  
recognised it as a policy that was suitable for her needs. I disagree with this. LGI will be 
aware that in accordance with standards  of good industry practice,  simply issuing 
documentation is not, in itself, sufficient  to rectify inadequate  or misleading oral disclosure. 
And in this case, the letter contains  nothing that speaks to what Ms B was told at the point  of 
deciding to take the cover or the degree  of choice she was given at that time. . 
Im not pretending that this is a straightforward matter,  but Ms B has told us that she felt she had to 
take the policy to get the loan. And based  on the submissions put to me in this case by both 
parties, I find this testimony  to be plausible and persuasive. Having reviewed  all of the evidence 
supplied in this particular case, I am not persuaded that I could safely  conclude that the policy  
information was presented  in such a way that Ms B was aware the PPI was optional.  
I have also concluded  that Ms B has been  disadvantaged as a result of LGIs failings in this 
case, because  I find it unlikely she would have gone ahead  with the policy  if she had been 
aware she had an option  not to proceed with the cover in this case.
It follows that I am upholding this complaint  and I am making an award against LGI.
putting things right 
Ms B borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been and 
she paid more than she should have each  month. So Ms B needs  to get back  the extra shes  
paid. 
So, LGIC  should:
Work  out and pay Ms B the difference between what she paid each month on the 
loan and what she would  have  paid each month without PPI;
Work  out and pay Ms B the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms B paid each month from when she paid it 
Ref: DRN25439933until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year;
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, LGIC can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires LGIC to take off tax from this interest.  LGIC  must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint  and direct  London  General  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Ms B as set out in the above putting things right section.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2543993