K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality.  He wants to reject the car.
Background
Mr C entered into a HPA with Blue Motor in May 2018 to acquire a used car. He says that he 
experienced issues with the car from the outset and listed the faults  as including:
alloys cracked and leaking;
rusty  brake  pads  and suspension;
air conditioner  generator needing replacement;
front right wheel bearing pad broken;
tyres  not fit for purpose; and
only one key supplied  at the time of purchase when the advert  was advertised as two 
keys.
Mr C says that the alloys were fixed but he is still experiencing issues. He says that Blue 
Motor left him to deal with the air conditioning and that he replaced the tyres. He says he 
was told he would need to get the spare key from the dealer, and he was offered £150 but 
this wasnt enough.  He says he has spent a lot of time having to deal with all the issues  and 
wants to reject the car.
Blue Motor  says that Mr C contacted it about  the issues with his car and it agreed for the car 
to be inspected. It says the results of the inspection were that the alloys had corroded, and 
the wheel  hub needed replacing. It says it agreed to cover the cost of the repairs to be 
carried out by the inspecting  garage and the wheels to be repaired by a specialist local to 
Mr C. It says Mr C confirmed the repairs  had been carried out and the car had been 
returned. In regard to the other  issues it says that it agreed to cover  the cost of the additional 
key and that Mr C should  get this and send it an invoice for reimbursement.
Our investigator thought that Blue Motor had acted reasonably by having the repairs carried  
out. He noted  that if the air conditioning repairs werent carried out under  warranty this may 
need to be considered further.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he didnt think the car was of 
satisfactory quality and said the repairs  on the alloys did take place, but the repairs  failed a 
few weeks later as the alloys cracked.  He said he wasnt given the warranty information, and 
this had expired,  and the air conditioning issue remained  outstanding. He also said that it 
was the suppliers responsibility to get the spare  key as this is what  had been  advertised.  He 
said that the engine management light keeps coming on and off.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr Cs car passed is vehicle test in January  2018, when the recorded mileage was 
49,101. Mr C acquired the car four months  later when the mileage  was recorded as 
49,106. A vehicle  test pre-delivery check was carried out which didnt raise concerns. 
This suggested the car was roadworthy  and fit for purpose  at acquisition.  However,  I 
Ref: DRN22104102noted that it was still possible  that issues could arise shortly after acquisition which 
although not noted at supply were developing at that time.
Mr C contacted Blue Motor in August  2018 about  the issues  he had experienced with 
the car. I found  it reasonable that Blue Motor arranged for the car to undergo  
diagnostics.
Following the diagnostics report and further discussion through the broker,  it was 
agreed that repairs would take place at no cost to Mr C. At the end of November 
2018, the alloy wheels were refurbished,  and Mr C confirmed at that time that the 
repairs were satisfactory. In January the front left wheel hub was renewed, and a 
complimentary brake and battery test took place. I found this a reasonable remedy  to 
these issues.
The diagnostics report mentioned that the air conditioning  compressor  needed to be 
replaced. Mr C was told he should  have this work carried out under his warranty. 
Mr C said he wasnt provided with the details of his warranty company, but the notes 
provided by Blue Motor  show  that this information was emailed to him on the 28 
November 2018, so I found find that Blue Motor gave Mr C the information  he 
needed to enable the repair to take place. Had the warranty  not covered the cost of 
the repair then this could have been  considered further. 
Mr C didnt approach  the warranty company and so I found that unless evidence was 
provided to show that this cost wouldnt have been covered by the warranty 
company, Blue Motor  wasnt  required to cover this cost.
An attempt was made to get an extra key, but this was unsuccessful.  Given the 
issues Mr C experienced in getting a replacement  key, I found it reasonable that this 
was provided for him at no cost.
Blue Motor  accepted my provisional decision. It said that the broker had provided  money  for 
the second key, but it hadnt  evidence of this and so accepted  that it would provide the 
second key. It also confirmed that if there  was evidence that the air conditioning repair  
wouldnt have been covered by the warranty then it would cover the cost of this.
Mr C said that the car was dangerous from the outset. He said he hadnt received  any 
information about the warranty company and that the repair to the air conditioning unit had 
cost him over £600. He provided copies of messages between him and the garage  that 
repaired the alloys regarding the ongoing  issues and said he had contacted  Blue Motor 
about this. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired  a used car through a HPA with Blue Motor. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), Blue Motor can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory quality takes  into account factors  such  
as the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person would expect taking into 
account all the circumstances. At acquisition the car was eight years old and had a mileage 
of over 49,000.
Ref: DRN22104103The issues  with Mr Cs car arose within six months of him acquiring the car (although 
reported after the first 30 days) and so, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, I find it 
reasonable that the dealer was given an opportunity to carry out repairs. Repairs  were  
undertaken to the wheels with the alloys being refurbished and the wheel hub replaced. As 
these repairs were  carried out in line with the recommendations in the diagnostics  report,  I 
find this issue was resolved.
Mr C has explained that following  the repairs to the alloys the paintwork started to crack.  He 
provided evidence  of this and the communication between him and the repairer  about  the 
cracking on three of the four alloys. This contact  was from February  and March 2019  and the 
repairer asks for the car to be returned  so he can do the work again. Mr C said that after this 
contact the repairer  stopped returning his calls and the issue  wasnt remedied.  
I have looked  back at the issue  that was raised regarding  the alloys and note in Blue Motors 
final response letter it says the alloys were corroded  with rust and it agreed to repairs at a 
specialist local to Mr C. These repairs were undertaken, and the invoice  says that the alloys 
were stripped and coated to address the corrosion and bad seal. The photographs  Mr C has 
provided show the coating cracking.  However, I have nothing to suggest the underlying  issue  
regarding the corrosion hasnt been addressed.  
Mr C also said he didnt receive the warranty details. The Blue Motors  contact  note says 
these were emailed to him in November 2018. On balance, I accept this happened.  
However, even if the email didnt reach  Mr C, given this issue had been discussed with him 
and he was told to contact the warranty company I would have found it reasonable he would 
have done this either by looking up the details or if these werent available  then by getting 
back in touch with Blue Motor to ask for the details.  
My final decision
My final decision is that Blue Motor  Finance  Ltd should:
provide Mr C with the second key at no cost;
in the event Mr C is able to show that the air conditioning compressor wouldnt have 
been covered  by his warranty then Blue Motor should cover the cost of this repair.  If 
the repair would have been  covered by Mr Cs warranty, then I do not require this 
cost to be covered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210410