K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with what Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) intend to do with 
compensation it has to pay for the mis-selling of a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
As Mr T was made bankrupt in 2006, BoS are proposing  to pay Mr Ts half of the 
compensation to the official receiver. 
Mr and Mrs T consider all of the PPI compensation should be paid to Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T 
also have some other concerns about the sale, the policy  and the amount of compensation 
being offered.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 July 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. 
Broadly summarised I was of the provisional  opinion that:
there was a PPI policy in place in the joint names of Mr and Mrs T.
the PPI was paid from Mrs Ts account, and there was an admin  error on BoS  
systems showing  the account was in Mr and Mrs Ts joint names.
I dont think BoS used Mrs Ts direct debit  authority from her mortgage payments to 
set up and pay for the PPI. From what I know, and have seen of BoSs sales  
process, it would  have required a separate direct  debit  mandate.
Mr T contacted BoS in 2004  querying  about a possible claim,  so I cant  fairly  say that 
he wasnt aware of PPI and had he been it would have prevented  their financial 
difficulties.
BoS should respond to the provisional  decision in relation to what the monthly  cost of 
the PPI was from August 1998 until July 1999, given the discrepancy on the 
statements Mr and Mrs T provided.
although Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that some of the compensation is being paid to 
the official receiver, that is a matter  between them and the official  receiver.
I invited all parties to respond  to me by 12 August  2019 with any further comments  or 
evidence that they wished  for me to consider. 
Mr and Mrs T responded with their comments.  BoS failed to respond.
Ref: DRN24421702my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T have taken the time to respond  to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs T have  reiterated their reasons why they consider their complaint should 
succeed and Mrs T should receive  all of the compensation. 
I want to assure Mr and Mrs T that I have carefully read through their comments. But having 
done so, I am of the opinion that they havent raised anything materially  new that changes 
my opinion. The points  they have raised have been considered within  my provisional 
decision.
And for the same reasons as set out in provisional decision, my findings remain  the same.
 
I had asked BoS to respond to my provisional  decision to let me know if it had worked out its 
offer of compensation based on the monthly premium being  £119.70.  The reason I wanted to 
know this was because  I was concerned that the evidence  suggests Mr and Mrs T did 
indeed pay £130  for the PPI prior to July 1999  (the May and June 1999 statements).   
As BoS havent  responded, and to ensure Mr and Mrs T havent  lost out, I think it is fair for 
BoS to assume  that from August 1998 up until July 1999 the monthly cost of the PPI was 
£130. 
So I direct BoS to recalculate its offer of compensation to take this into account.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision:
my final decision is that:
there was a PPI policy in place in the joint names of Mr and Mrs T.
the PPI was paid from Mrs Ts account, and there was an admin  error on 
Bank of Scotland plcs systems showing the account was in Mr and Mrs Ts joint 
names.
I dont think Bank  of Scotland plc used  Mrs Ts direct debit authority from her 
mortgage payments  to set up and pay for the PPI. From what I know  and have seen 
of Bank  of Scotland  plcs sales process it would have required a separate  direct debit 
mandate.
Mr T contacted Bank of Scotland plc in 2004  querying about a possible claim,  so I 
cant fairly say that he wasnt aware  of PPI and had he been it would have prevented  
their financial  difficulties.
Bank of Scotland plc, to ensure  Mr and Mrs T havent  lost out, should assume that 
from August 1998 up until July 1999 the monthly  cost of the PPI was £130. I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to recalculate  its offer of compensation.  
Ref: DRN24421703although Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that some of the compensation is being paid to 
the official receiver, that is a matter  between them and the official  receiver.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2019. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24421704Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with what Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  intend to do with compensation  it 
has to pay for the mis-selling of a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
As Mr T was made bankrupt in 2006, BoS are proposing to pay Mr Ts half of the compensation  to the 
official receiver. 
Mr and Mrs T consider  all of the PPI compensation should be paid to Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T also have 
some other  concerns about the sale, the policy  and the amount of compensation being offered.
background 
Mr and Mrs T were  sold a PPI policy in August 1998. The policy was in joint names. The policy  cost 
£119.70 per month and provided  a monthly benefit  of £2,000  with the benefit split equally between  
Mr and Mrs T.
The policy was cancelled in June 2004.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs T through a representative complained to BoS they had been mis-sold  PPI. They 
said they did not know or had been advised that the policy was in existence and that it was 
inappropriate for their needs. 
BoS thought the PPI hadnt  been mis-sold.
Unhappy with BoSs response, Mr and Mrs T brought the complaint to our service.
In January 2019, following our involvement, BoS agreed that the PPI was mis-sold and made  Mr and 
Mrs T an offer of compensation.
BoS said that as Mr T had been declared  bankrupt in 2006, and the official receiver confirmed they 
had an interest in Mr Ts compensation, it would split the compensation payment equally and pay 
Mr Ts half of the compensation to the official receiver. 
Mr and Mrs Ts main  concern is that they say the payments for the PPI policy, and the mortgage were 
in Mrs Ts name   and Mr T didnt make any payments. As Mrs T made  the PPI payments, Mr and 
Mrs T consider all of the PPI compensation  should be paid to Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T say they have written to the official receiver  explaining why they think  the compensation  
should be paid to Mrs T. As Mr and Mrs T didnt  get a response  they assume  that this shows the 
official receiver doesnt object to all the compensation being paid to Mrs T.
Mr and Mrs T also had some  other concerns.  
Mr and Mrs T say as BoS cant provide any original documents about  the PPI, it never existed. They 
reiterated that they have never had this policy, never had sight of it and never  signed for it. They think 
BoS fraudulently  took Mrs Ts direct debit details.
Mr and Mrs T also considered that when  Mr Ts company got into financial difficulty  they struggled to 
pay the mortgage.  They  say BoS didnt  mention they had PPI and had they known, it could have 
saved their house.
Ref: DRN24421705With BoSs offer of compensation, Mr and Mrs T thought at points, early  on when the policy started, 
they were actually  paying  £130 for the PPI not £119.70.  They provided  some bank statements to 
highlight this. Because of this they thought the compensation amount  was slightly  lower than it should  
be and it needed to be recalculated to reflect that.
Our adjudicator, broadly  summarised, thought BoS had acted fairly and didnt  need to do anything  
further.
 
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T concerns  about the policys  existence
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T have concerns about that the policy never existed.  Whilst  BoS cant  
provide any documents  from the point of sale it doesnt mean that the policy didnt exist. BoS has 
provided internal screen shots to show details of the policy.  For example  the policy number, who was 
covered, what  they were  covered for and what the monthly premium cost. And Mr and Mrs T have 
provided bank statements showing they paid for the PPI. 
So Im satisfied a policy was in place and Mr and Mrs T paid for it.
the account where  the PPI was paid from
BoS say it came from a joint account.  Mr and Mrs T say that they never  had a joint account. Mr and 
Mrs T think BoS used Mrs Ts direct debit authority from her personal account,  which was used to pay 
the mortgage, without her knowledge or permission.
BoS has provided internal screen shots which show the details of where the payments were  coming 
from. BoS say it was a joint account because on its systems it has the account where the payments 
came from written down  as in the name of both Mr and Mrs T. But I can see that the sort code and 
account number  in its systems is for the account that was solely  in Mrs Ts name and it matches the 
account on the statements that Mrs T has provided. 
So I think it has simply  been  an admin error  when BoS inputted the details of the account holder into 
its systems. 
I also dont think BoS used Mrs Ts direct debit authority from her mortgage payments to pay for the 
PPI. From  what I know and have seen  of BoSs sales process  it would  have required a separate  direct  
debit mandate.
So I dont uphold their complaint on this point.
Mr Ts claim  concerns
Mr and Mrs T, when  they complained to BoS about  the PPI and when they brought  their complaint  to 
this service, said they were  never aware  the policy  existed.  They also said as they didnt know they 
had PPI, and had they done, it could  have helped  them when Mr T got into difficulty  with his company.
BoS has provided records  which  shows that Mr T called  in June 2004 with a claims query.
Ref: DRN24421706The notes state:
customer called to say that he is working  for a limited company himself and 3 others and 
the company had incurred a bad debt and wanted to know could  he claim on policy  as he is 
receiving no wages, advised  no as still employed   
The notes go on to say the adviser would  send  Mr T a copy  of the policy terms as Mr T was 
considering closing the policy. The policy was subsequently cancelled  in the same month and no 
more premiums were charged.
So it seems  that Mr and Mrs T (or at the very least Mr T) were aware that the PPI was in place with Mr 
T attempting to claim on it.
Mr and Mrs T have  recently said in response to our adjudicators  view they actually did become aware 
of the PPI policy and this was when Mrs T faxed BoS to query what  the amount she was paying was 
for. They have said that they decided to keep the policy   but it wasnt of use when  Mr T needed to 
claim.
So, Mr and Mrs Ts testimony around the policy is contradictory.  On one hand they say that they 
never took it out and were never aware of it. And on the other  hand they now say that they did 
become aware of it and after discovering  what it was, despite saying they never  signed up for it, 
decided to keep it. 
I appreciate that quite  a considerable amount of time has passed and recollections can and do fade 
over time. But it seems to me that at some point Mr and Mrs T became aware of the PPI, decided  to 
keep the policy and with Mr T contacting BoS to see if he could possibly claim on the policy in 2004. 
He didnt pursue the claim and the policy was ultimately  cancelled around the same time.  
So I cant fairly uphold their complaint that they didnt know they had PPI, and had they done it could 
have helped  them when Mr T got into difficulty with his company. 
the offer of compensation 
BoS has agreed to our adjudicators findings  that the PPI was mis-sold  and offered compensation  to 
place Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been in had things not gone wrong. 
I would also like to add that whether the policy never existed or whether  it existed and was mis-sold 
because it wasnt right for a consumer, the remedy to put that right is to ensure a consumer hasnt lost 
out if they paid anything for the policy. 
BoS offer of compensation is to refund  the monthly premiums that Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI. And 
to compensate them for being out of pocket  it offered 8% simple interest on each overpayment  they 
made.
BoS has calculated this based  on its records showing  the monthly premium was £119.70
Mr and Mrs T have  provided  Mrs Ts bank statements. The statements provided cover a period from 
May 1999 to May 2004.
Mr and Mrs Ts policy started in August 1998. I can see from the statements that from July 1999 up 
until May 2004 the PPI cost £119.70 as I would expect to see. Each direct debit has the reference 
number that matches what BoS has on its internal systems  (reference ending ***920SSQ). 
The May and June  1999  statements have  this same reference, but Mr and Mrs T are charged £130.  
Mr and Mrs T think that the policy cost £130  from the start date in August 1998 up until July 1999 and 
want their compensation  updated to reflect this. As it stands I agree there is a discrepancy that needs 
rectifying.
Ref: DRN24421707In response to this provisional decision I would ask BoS for a copy  of its compensation offer  so I can 
see if the higher  premiums of £130 were included  in its offer or as I suspect whether  it kept the 
monthly premium  at £119.70  for the duration of the policy.
If BoS worked out its offer simply based on the monthly payment being £119.70 I would ask it to take 
into account  that the evidence  suggests Mr and Mrs T did indeed pay £130 for the PPI prior to July 
1999.   
If BoS arent sure why Mr and Mrs T were  charged £130, then to ensure Mr and Mrs T arent out of 
pocket I think it would be fair for BoS to assume that from August 1998 up until July 1999 the monthly  
cost was £130. It should  recalculate  its offer of compensation. And it should provide  me with a copy  of 
its calculation or offer setting out what its done.
is it fair for BoS to pay Mr Ts half of the compensation to the official receiver?
The official receiver of Mr Ts bankruptcy is an eligible complainant in this case. And they are rightly 
so, party to this complaint.  The official receiver was legally appointed to administer Mr Ts bankruptcy.
Bankruptcy orders  are made by the Court and are set out in accordance with the Insolvency Rules. 
Bankruptcy orders  also fall under the supervision  of the Court.
Because Mr T took out (alongside Mrs T) the joint PPI policy before  he was made bankrupt, 
compensation for the mis-sale of the PPI policy counts  as an asset of Mr Ts estate in bankruptcy. 
This means  any compensation owed to Mr T is effectively owned  by the official receiver and not by 
Mr T. And even though Mr T was discharged from bankruptcy, this doesnt change  the situation.  The 
official receiver still owns  the right to any compensation now due to Mr T.
So it was right, once the official receiver  declared  an interest in Mr Ts compensation; that BoS offered  
to pay Mr Ts compensation  to it. In fact I think  it had an obligation to do so. BoS has said that as the 
official receiver declared  an interest,  and because the policy was in joint names, it simply  split the 
compensation equally. This way there was an amount for it to pay to the official receiver. 
Mr and Mrs T say that Mrs T only paid for the premiums and have provided  records to show this. They 
say Mrs T is the one who is out of pocket and so should get everything back. And if this doesnt 
happen, then it is Mrs T who has lost out as she hasnt been returned to the correct position as if PPI 
hadnt been sold. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ts point here. But it is important to remember  that the official receiver  had 
declared an interest  in the compensation, so BoS had to do something. It split the compensation  
equally, and I cant say that BoS has acted unfairly in doing so.
So it seems  to me, that this is now actually  a dispute  between Mr and Mrs T and the official receiver. 
Mr and Mrs T have  stated their reasons why all the compensation should be paid to Mrs T  and I 
think it is between them and the official receiver  to work  out if anything  further needs  to happen.
I would like to add Mr and Mrs T have said that they have tried contacting the official receiver setting 
out why they think the compensation  should be paid to Mrs T. Mr and Mrs T say because the official 
receiver hasnt responded, this means that the official receiver doesnt object to the compensation 
being paid to Mrs T.
But the official  receiver has told BoS they have  an interest  in Mr Ts compensation. So for the reasons  
Ive already explained I think Mr and Mrs T need to approach the official receiver  should they think  the 
compensation needs to be paid to Mrs T. 
Ref: DRN24421708Mr T says that his half of the compensation would easily clear the amount he was made bankrupt  for. 
Again, I think  this is a matter  between  Mr T and his official receiver to see what it means  for him.
If Mr T has any concerns about his official receiver then he would  need to take that up separately with 
the official  receiver. It wouldnt be a complaint that this service could  consider. We have the power  to 
consider disputes between financial businesses and consumers and cant look into any dispute 
between a consumer and an official receiver.
my provisional  decision
For reasons given above,  I am of the provisional opinion  that:
there was a PPI policy in place in the joint names of Mr and Mrs T.
the PPI was paid from Mrs Ts account,  and there was an admin error on BoS systems  
showing the account as in Mr and Mrs Ts joint names.
I dont  think BoS used Mrs Ts direct debit authority from her mortgage payments to set up 
and pay for the PPI. From what  I know and have  seen  of BoSs  sales process it would  have 
required a separate direct  debit  mandate.
Mr T contacted BoS in 2004 querying  about a claim,  so I cant  fairly say that he wasnt aware 
of PPI and had he been  it would  have prevented  their financial difficulties.
BoS need  to respond to this provisional  decision in relation to what  the monthly  cost of the 
PPI was from August 1998 until July 1999, given  the discrepancy on the statements Mr and 
Mrs T provided.
although Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that some of the compensation is being  paid to the 
official receiver that is a matter between them and the official receiver.
I invite all parties  to respond by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision  with 
anything further that they wish for me to consider.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2442170