K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  about how CIS General Insurance Limited handled a claim made on her 
motor insurance policy.  She wants it to pay £500  compensation  she said it had offered and 
further compensation for its poor service.
background 
Miss Ss car was taken by a family  member  without her consent and then damaged. It was 
deemed to be beyond economical repair  but a category  N loss, i.e. there was no structural  
damage. Miss S initially made a claim to CIS but later withdrew  this. CIS said the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy  terms and conditions unless Miss S decided  to press  charges. 
But CIS disposed  of her cars salvage  rather than return it to Miss S. She said she wanted  to 
repair the car due to sentimental reasons. CIS agreed that it had made an error, so it offered 
Miss S £500 compensation and allowed her No Claims Discount (NCD).
But CIS then agreed to deal with the claim and paid Miss S what  it said was the cars market  
value, £4,000 and waived  the £150  policy excess.  The claim was recorded  as a fault and 
Miss Ss NCD was affected.  CIS withdrew  the offer of £500. But, after the complaint came  to 
our service,  it agreed to offer £150 for this loss of expectation.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She didnt think 
CIS should pay Miss S £500 compensation. This was because shed already benefited from 
the £4,000, which was more than the cars salvage  value,  and she didnt need to pay for 
repairs. Also, the policy excess had been waived. 
The investigator thought Miss S had clearly  withdrawn the claim. But she thought that as 
Miss S had decided not to prosecute her relative, CIS was unable  to recover its costs. So 
she thought the claim should be recorded as fault and Miss Ss NCD should be affected. But 
she thought CIS offer of £150 for Miss Ss loss of expectation due to the withdrawal of the 
£500 offer was fair and reasonable. 
Miss S replied  that shed accepted CIS offer of £4,500 in good faith as fair compensation for 
her financial  and emotional suffering. But she said she now reluctantly accepted £150. 
However, CIS said it hadnt  meant  to offer Miss S a further £150,  but that the waiver of her 
£150 policy excess would stand instead.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Miss Ss policy terms and conditions say that damage would only be covered 
when the car was taken by someone  known to her if she reported this to the police. Miss S 
decided not to press charges or prosecute her relative. So I think  it would usually  be fair and 
reasonable for CIS to not pay her claim. But Miss S withdrew her claim and CIS then found 
that the car had been accidentally disposed of. 
Ref: DRN23741142Miss S said shed planned to have her car repaired due its sentimental value. She said she 
hadnt had an estimate  for the repair costs.  But she said shed been told these would be 
lower than CIS estimate  of £8,000. 
CIS has agreed that it made an error in disposing of Miss Ss car after she told it she 
withdrew her claim. Our approach in such cases is that the insurer should  restore  the 
consumers position.  So I think it would have been  reasonable for CIS to offer Miss S the 
cars salvage value,  £1,320, and £500 compensation for her upset.  
But CIS went further than this. It dealt with the claim even though it wasnt covered by the 
policy. It paid Miss S £4,000, which it said was the cars market  value, it waived her policy  
excess of £150  and offered her £500  compensation. I think  CIS decision to pay the claim 
was more than Id expect. I think Miss S has benefited financially from this. Miss S hasnt 
complained about the cars  valuation,  so I havent looked at that here. 
But Miss S said shed accepted CIS offer of £4,500  but didnt then receive the £500  
compensation it also offered her. She said she had to chase this up through the complaints 
procedure and after eight  weeks  she was then told the offer had been withdrawn. 
CIS said there had been confusion about its offer of £150 compensation for Miss S. It said it 
was referring back to its offer to waive her £150 policy excess  as compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.  Ive looked at its correspondence  with our service.  And I think  its clear 
that it also offered  £150 compensation for Miss Ss loss of expectation of £500. I think 
waiving a fee is different to making an offer of compensation.  I think  the initial  £150  was part 
of the offer for having her car disposed of. This is clear in CIS letter to Miss S. 
And I think CIS clearly  caused Miss S further  upset by its delay in telling her that the offer of 
£500 had been withdrawn. Miss S had to chase up the expected settlement. CIS caused her 
to wait while it dealt  with a further  complaint. I think £150 compensation for the impact  of this 
is fair and reasonable as its in keeping  with the level Id usually award. So I think CIS should 
now pay Miss S this amount. 
CIS initially said that it would record the claim as non-fault and allow  Miss Ss NCD. But it 
later said that because it hadnt recovered  its losses as Miss S had decided  not to press 
charges then it changed this. Miss S has also told us that shes no longer concerned  about  
this point. So I wont consider this point  further.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require CIS General Insurance 
Limited to pay Miss S £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its 
level of service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2374114