K820x#14complaint
Mr H says the advice  given by Mercer Limited for him to transfer  his occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) benefits into a personal pension wasnt suitable and its responsible for the 
financial detriment hes experienced.
Mr H is represented by Corries Solicitors Ltd (CSL).
background
Mr H began his career in 1959. Although his first two jobs provided membership of an OPS,  
because his length of service was less than five years, he believes his contributions were 
refunded, and no benefits preserved.
Mr Hs next role was with Baxter Travenol. He was with the company between 1970-79 
during which  time he accrued nine years  of reckonable service. He then moved to United 
Closures and Plastics (UCP) where  he held various  managerial roles between  1979-1988. 
Mr H says he was able to transfer the pension benefits hed built-up with Baxter  Travenol 
into his UCP  scheme.
At the time of the events complained about in 1989,  Mr H was employed by Barclay Stuart  
Plastics (BSP). His employer was considering closing its final salary scheme and setting up 
money purchase arrangements. Mercer,  then trading as Noble Lowndes Personal  Financial  
Services), appears to have been invited by BSP to provide pension  advice to its employees 
during this period.
Mr H says he was told by Mercers  adviser  that he would  be able to get better returns  in a 
personal pension  than with an OPS because  of investments in the stock market. This made  
him think he may as well transfer  the OPS pension  benefits accumulated with his former 
schemes into a similar  arrangement. And this is what he did.
Mr H says that UCP was taken over by Metal  Box and that had he not moved his OPS 
benefits, he wouldve  come under the arrangements of the Metal Box Pension Scheme 
(MBPS). But he did transfer,  and around  £34,700 was moved  into a personal pension  plan 
with Provident  Mutual  (later CGU Life Services  Limited  and now Aviva) in July 1989.
In 2017 Mr H complained  about what had happened. He said Mercers advice for him to 
transfer his OPS benefits hadnt been  suitable.  And he said there were several problems 
with the process  it had followed, for example the adviser didnt complete an adequate fact-
find and hadnt  established his attitude to risk. He wasnt told about where his funds would 
be invested or about the fees and charges hed incur.
Mercer said that Mr H had brought his complaint out of time. It also said there was no 
evidence that it had actually provided advice. In aid of this argument it noted the transaction 
had never  been  subject  to the Pensions Review that was established by the regulator in 
1994.
Despite making these arguments, Mercer did go on to review Mr Hs case. It noted his senior 
position and asserted that he had experience of financial products. It said the illustrations 
hed been given at the time had given clear risk warnings.  And it concluded based on a 
Financial Viability Test (FVT) it had commissioned, the transfer from an OPS  to a personal  
pension was a reasonable and viable proposition at the time.
Ref: DRN23952562The adjudicator, and later separately an ombudsman,  concluded  that this Service  could 
consider the merits  of Mr Hs case because  hed brought it on time. An investigator  
subsequently concluded his complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr H, through his representative, 
disagreed and his case  has been passed  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in February. Mr H provided further evidence in support  of his 
case. In particular, paperwork which suggested  his accumulated OPS  benefits in 1989  
wouldve come  under the MBPS. And after liaising  with a former colleague he obtained 
documentation which  set out how deferred benefits would be revalued.  His representative  
thought this new information would  be sufficient to change my provisional conclusions. 
Mr H has put a lot of effort into researching what happened to his pension several decades  
ago. Thats not a straight-forward endeavour, especially given all the changes that have 
happened to his employment  and schemes. Im grateful for the time hes spent doing  this 
which has helped me to think about his case. Ive carefully considered the new information 
hes provided and have taken this into account  in this final decision.  
Our jurisdiction to consider Mr Hs complaint
Another ombudsman  has already investigated whether we have  jurisdiction for Mr Hs case 
and concluded  we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again. I wont  
be rehearsing all the arguments shes already made, but Ive reached  the same  conclusion.
In summary,  I agree theres  sufficient  evidence that Mr H was advised  by Mercer to transfer  
his OPS benefits in 1989. I say this after considering the circumstances in which  Mr H was 
introduced to its adviser, the various communications between Mercer and Mr H, his OPS 
administrators and his personal pension provider, both around the time of the events 
complained about and subsequently. I note also that Mercer couldnt say with certainty 
whether it did or didnt  provide Mr H with advice.  Mr H says that it did.
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Mercer  has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mr Hs 
case. Its made arguments  that he made his complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Ref: DRN23952563Its not in dispute  the event - the transaction in 1989  which led to Mr H transferring his OPS 
benefits into a personal pension  - took place  more than six years  before he first complained 
in April 2017. But Mercer said he also became aware, or ought reasonably to have become 
aware, of cause to complain more than three years prior to this, for example by 2007, three 
years after hed accessed both the protected and non-protected benefits from the pension  
funds in question.
Again, I agree  with the ombudsman who has already considered  this case. Im not satisfied 
Mr H wouldve had all the information  he needed to alert him to any potential problem with 
his personal pension. Indeed, for the most part he appears to have considered that his plans 
were performing well.
Had Mr Hs case  been considered under the Pension Review, then hed have been provided 
with assurance or otherwise about his pension arrangements. That wouldve put him on the 
path to discovery. But the review didnt take place and thats not his fault. 
Im satisfied Mr H had cause for complaint from 2016 when he says he saw an advert  from 
his representative  about potential problems  with OPS transfers, which prompted him to 
research matters online. I cant see anything on file that makes me think  Mr H knew  or ought 
reasonably to have  known  there couldve been problems with his pension  arrangements  
before this. And he raised  his concerns  in 2017,  well within  the three-year time limit.
So, Mr H has made his complaint in time and I can consider it. This rest of my decision will 
focus on the merits of his case.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Perhaps inevitably, trying to unpick events that happened over 30 years ago without the aid 
of complete records has been  difficult.  Nevertheless,  Im grateful to both parties in their 
respective efforts  to get to the bottom  of things.
Where theres conflicting information about events  in 1989 and gaps in what  we know,  my 
role is to weigh  the evidence  we do have and to decide, on the balance  of probabilities, 
whats most likely  to have happened.
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised by both parties. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I know hell be disappointed by my decision,  but I hope  
the explanation Ive set out will help him understand how Ive arrived  at my conclusions.
The regulatory position for firms offering pension and investment advice has evolved 
significantly over the decades.  As has the guidance issued by the various industry  bodies.  I 
note Mercers  predecessor  firm was a member of the Investment Management Regulatory 
Organisation (IMRO) and that the providers it was working with were governed by the Life 
Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation  (LAUTRO).
Ref: DRN23952564While all the retail regulators  issued guidance  to their respective members in relation to the 
transfer of deferred  benefits for final salary  pension schemes - for example, LAUTRO in July 
1992 and IMRO in March  1993 - this was after the events complained  of in this case.
The regulators acquired their authority from the Financial Services  Act 1986. The rules 
drawn up by them under these provisions can be viewed as a series of layers.  There was a 
common theme established within the industry. At its broadest,  three  core obligations  were  
imposed on a financial adviser,  to know the client, to make  suitable recommendations and to 
provide best advice. So, I need to bear these matters in mind  in deciding this case.
Im also mindful that in October 1994, the then regulator established an industry-wide review  
of particular pension  business carried out by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 
June 1994. This was generally known as the Pension Review.  The advice Mr H received 
shouldve been  covered  by this exercise.
The Pension Review was set up due to concerns about unsuitable advice being given by 
firms during this period,  for clients to transfer out of an OPS with guaranteed  benefits into 
personal pension  plans where  the protections were lost and benefits dependent on 
investment returns.
If the advice  given was found to have been  unsuitable, the regulator provided  a process, 
which businesses had to follow  in order to determine  whether the consumer had suffered a 
loss. If there was a loss, the methodology also calculated what the business needed to do in 
order to put the consumer  back  into the position  they shouldve been  in, but for the 
unsuitable advice.
The Pension Review methodology  and associated calculations were based  on a number of 
actuarial assumptions. The calculations were complex and had to be completed by a 
qualified actuary, using specialist software.  The exercise was intended to be a one-time only 
assessment. The redress  paid wasnt intended  to be ongoing or reviewable.
The advice Mr H received  in 1989 wasnt reviewed  as it shouldve been. Mercer cant explain 
why. But in weighing his case a consideration is what the likely outcome of such a review 
wouldve been.
At the time of the advice Mr H was 49 years old and married. He had a mortgage  and three 
endowment / life insurance policies. His plan was to retire when he was 60-65, so in another  
10-15 years. From later documentation, its recorded  that he was in good  health.
Mr H told us he was put in touch with Mercer by his new employer BSP, because it was 
considering closing its final salary scheme and putting in place  money purchase 
arrangements. It facilitated the advice services.
Unfortunately, beyond these basic facts,  there  are significant gaps in the available  
information. Theres no fact-find on file, so what  I know about  Mr Hs financial circumstances 
at the time is limited. Nothing is recorded about  his retirement objectives.  And theres no 
attitude to risk assessment.
Of course,  absence of available information today makes it harder to assess  suitability 
looking backwards,  but it doesnt determine  that the transfer was or wasnt suitable.
Ref: DRN23952565In terms of Mr Hs objectives, I think we can glean  from what hes told us he was interested  
in finding out about if he could secure a bigger pension  in retirement than was likely to be 
available through his OPS.
In terms of his attitude to risk, in 2017 Mr H indicated his appetite  was low - 3 on an 
ascending risk scale  of 1-10. But I can also see that in 1994  an assessment recorded by 
Mercer following  a review indicates he had a balanced attitude to investment and pension  
risk. 
Im placing  more weight  on the earlier record of Mr Hs risk outlook  because its more 
proximate to events.  Memories can and do fade and I think  contemporaneous  records tend 
to be a more accurate  reflection of the situation, rather  than a recollection from almost 30 
years later.
In order for Mr H to have weighed-up whether it would be a good idea to transfer or not he 
wouldve needed to have understood the benefits available  from his OPS scheme. Again, 
the information we have  about his UCP scheme is limited. 
As we know,  Mr H moved to UCP where  he held various managerial  roles  between 1979-
1988. He says he was able to transfer the pension benefits hed built-up with his former 
employer between 1970-79 into his UCP OPS. 
Both parties  have been working  from old documentation for reasons I understand. For 
example, a UCP policy document  dated 1980. Key features of the scheme at that time 
included:
-A normal pension  age (NPA) of 65. Earlier retirement from the age of 55, although 
this wouldve entailed  reduced benefits.
-Qualifying service which accumulated pension rights of 1/60 of final salary over each 
of the first 10 years. Over the following ten years accumulation  accelerated.
-An annual increase of 3% in the pension payable in retirement (for that element  
which was as in excess of the Guaranteed  Minimum Pension).
-The ability to exchange up to 25% of the pension for tax-free cash (TFC).
-Various death  benefits, including a spouse  pension at 50% of the full rate where 
death was after retirement.
While certain of these features mayve remained stable, by the time hed transferred out in 
1989 others couldve been  subject  to important changes. It would be very difficult  to make  
blind assumptions  about what these might  have been and the impact they couldve had.
The UCP policy booklet from 1980 is also silent on some important matters. For example, 
concerning the uprating of deferred benefits.  Here I note revaluation was put on a statutory 
footing in the Social Security Act 1985. 
The requirement to revalue  deferred  pensions applied to members of salary-related  
schemes who had left pensionable service  on or after 1 January 1986, provided they left at 
least a year before attaining NPA. The extent of revaluation  depended  on the date the 
member left pensionable service:
-Only members who left on or after 1 January  1991 were entitled to have all their 
deferred pension  rights revalued, including pre-1986 service.
Ref: DRN23952566-Deferred members who left service between 1 January 1986  and 31 December 1990 
were entitled to receive revaluation only of the rights accrued from pensionable  
service on or after 1 January 1985.
While mindful  these  legislative provisions  stipulate minimum levels  of revaluation  and that 
some schemes, for example in the public sector, offered more generous terms, Ive seen no 
evidence this was the case for Mr Hs UCP  benefits.  This suggests Mr H mayve only had 
rights to the revaluation of, say, around 4 years  of the pensions benefits hed accrued.
Following my provisional decision, Mr H provided new information suggesting his UCP OPS  
was taken over by Metal Box and that had he not transferred his OPS benefits  in 1989, then 
he wouldve come under the arrangements  of the MBPS. He obtained information about the 
scheme arrangements from a former  work colleague. 
CSL said the new information  showed  that all deferred benefits in the scheme in excess of 
the GMP were revalued in line with the retail  prices index, up to a maximum of 5% per 
annum. It said this wouldve pushed the FVT above the regulators prescribed ceiling, 
making the transfer of his OPS benefits  into a personal pension unsuitable. It didnt provide 
any actuarial calculations to underpin its assertion.   
I dont think the new information Mr H found is telling  in my consideration of his case.  For 
example, I dont have  any information  about the terms on which his UCP benefits wouldve  
been transferred  across  to MBPS. Theres an absence of information about  how his pre-
1985 benefits wouldve been treated. And whats been found  in relation to the uprating of 
deferred benefits in MBPS in 1992 is consistent with regulatory requirements at the time.
I find the first quote Mr H received from his then new employer BSP in relation to the 
prospective transfer of his UCP  benefits to its scheme very significant.  This was dated 21 
March 1989 and projected the pensionable income  he could receive from his deferred 
benefits if he transferred  would be around  £13,000  a year,  with a 50% widows  pension.  So, 
he was aware of the level of guaranteed income  he could expect by remaining in an OPS  
and not transferring to a personal  pension.
Following this, several illustrations from different providers were arranged  by Mercer for Mr H 
in April and June 1989 which showed  possible pension incomes based on growth rates of 
8.5% and 13% - in accordance with LAUTRO guidelines at the time. The following  notice  is 
typical of the warnings provided  alongside  benefit projections:
These two amounts do not represent  the upper  and lower  limits  of the possible amount  of 
the benefit.  
I can see the personal pension illustrations projected  incomes at 8.5%  growth, and all these 
were less than the guaranteed income  achievable shown on the BSP quote had he 
transferred his deferred benefits to its OPS.  So, I think he was aware  of the potential  to get 
less income in retirement if he took out a personal pension.
Mr H also had three months between the date the first quote in March 1989 and the point 
when Mercer sent him six illustrations in June  1989.  This is a reasonable period over which 
to consider options and weigh up the alternatives.  Ive not seen evidence  the decision to 
transfer was driven  by the adviser.
Ref: DRN23952567Ive considered the position with regards the some of the benefits  Mr H couldve foregone as 
a result of the transfer to a personal  pension, for example the spouse pension  and annual  
uprating of his income in retirement.
The illustrations Mr H received set out a range of scenarios. Several detailed the level of 
income which an annuity could provide, including a spouses pension. Some  set out the 
potential for escalation of income in retirement. And projections were provided  showing the 
impact of different  retirement dates. So, he knew he couldve  taken a personal pension with 
matching benefits  to his OPS and still potentially  receive a higher income.
The illustration from Provident  Mutual  - the company he ultimately  opted to transfer to - didnt 
include a spouses  pension. But Im mindful Mr H wasnt  obliged  to take an annuity  with the 
same provider. An annuity could be purchased on the open  market at retirement and quotes 
from several other providers had shown him what might be available  at that time. Indeed, we 
know he eventually took annuities with different companies.
When Mercer presented  Mr H with the illustrations, I can see in a cover letter its said:
I am enclosing six illustrations and out of these  six there are two that beat the Standard Life. 
I think you should seriously consider looking at the Provident  Mutual which shows 
considerably more at 13%. They have an excellent  track  record  and their administration is 
excellent. What  I suggest you do is telephone me so that we can go through  the illustrations 
together.
Mercer draws Mr Hs attention to the Provident Mutual illustration which  projected fund 
growth higher  than the figures quoted  by Standard  Life. I dont know  what  was covered in 
subsequent discussions. However, I dont read this short extract  as a recommendation to 
transfer his OPS benefits to a personal  pension plan over either remaining with his UCP 
scheme or moving his benefits to the BCP scheme.
Had Mr Hs pension transfer  been  considered under  the Pension Review then Mercer 
wouldve commissioned a FVT. The rates the regulator used for these tests are directly  
relevant to my consideration here.
Following receipt of Mr Hs complaint Mercer asked  the actuary Lane-Joynt Bennett  Ltd 
(LJB), to review the available information  to establish the rate of investment growth  that his 
personal pension  needed to achieve to match the benefits of the OPS.
If the results showed the rate of return required was higher than the upper rate the regulator 
considered it was reasonable for an adviser  to assume at the time, then the transfer would 
fail the FVT. And a fail created a strong presumption that the advice  to transfer wasnt  
suitable.
The investment return  (critical yield) required to match  Mr Hs OPS at NRA (65) was found to 
be 4.84%  per year. This compares with the upper limit the regulator  gave  for a FVT of 12.2 
% per year for someone with 15 years until he retired. So, it seemed the transfer passed the 
test. And that would suggest that the advice wasnt unsuitable, subject  to other factors  such 
as Mr Hs attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN23952568CSL challenged the basis of LJBs  calculations. For example, it noted no allowance had 
been made for the fact that his UCP pension income  wouldve enjoyed annual  increases of 
3%. It also raised a question about the assumptions made  for revaluation  of his deferred 
benefits. It said even  allowing  for minimum statutory requirements, its expert calculated a 
critical yield of 8.2%. It also raised doubts about  the validity of the buy-out data used  in the 
calculations.
Following the intervention  of the investigator  to get to the bottom  of these matters, Mercer 
commissioned a further FVT analysis from another company,  TCC. This time a critical yield 
of 5.33% was derived, using new assumptions  for the uprating  of Mr Hs pension in 
retirement.
There have been  three  attempts  by different actuaries at generating a critical yield based on 
the available  data. Even the highest,  was lower than the most cautious  growth  projection 
used in the illustrations  which was 8.5%. And much less than the relevant  discount rate of 
12.2% used in the FVT. Based on this, the recommendation again passes the FVT.
However, I have some  concern about  the information provided by Mercer about Mr Hs 
pension benefits  as captured in 1989 during the transfer process.  For example, it asserted  
the figure recorded for his UCP pension was the value at retirement  as per its usual 
practice. Mr H believed  it showed the value of benefits as they were  in 1989.
Neither party has been able to provide conclusive evidence here. Matters are complicated 
not simply due to the effect of the passage of time, but also because the situation at the time 
of the advice was dynamic. Ive already touched on some of these not insignificant matters:
-The changing regulatory requirements in relation  to the revaluation of OPS  deferred 
benefits, and the specific  impact  of the minimum statutory provisions on Mr Hs 
situation and lack of knowledge  of the approach adopted by his MBPS/UCP scheme.
-The lack of information about the value of the 9 years of OPS benefits Mr H had 
accrued with a former employer which he says he transferred to UCP. I note hes 
estimated this bought him two and a half additional years  reckonable  service under  
the UCP  scheme.
-The lack of evidence  about Mr Hs pensionable remuneration  whilst employed by 
UCP, particularly the salary he was paid in each  of his last three years of service.
Having considered matters in the round, it seems to me more likely than not the value of the 
benefits shown  on Mr Hs buy-out paperwork from the time of the transfer understated what  
they were worth in retirement. 
I say this for a number  of reasons. Firstly, hed only recently left his OPS and it seems  
plausible the pension figure  provided  was based on what hed accrued to that point and not 
projected forward. This is supported by the fact that both actuarial firms  commissioned by 
Mercer and responsible for providing expert  advice  on these matters, commented  on how 
the critical yields needed to match the pension were unusually low.
Further, the pension  projection available from BSP in March  1989 said Mr Hs new OPS 
would pay him a pension of £6,800 at retirement  excluding any transferred in benefits and 
this figure  was based on his current salary, i.e. it didnt allow  for any increase in pay/inflation. 
At the time he had 15 years to retirement.
Ref: DRN23952569Crucially, this was accompanied by a transfer-in  quotation which showed additional pension 
income from 2004 of £13,064 a year if Mr H moved his UCP  benefits across to the BSP 
scheme. This figure  included his GMP, with revaluation to state  pension  age, and the 
balance of excess benefit revalued at 5% per year. I remain  of the view this is a reasonable 
approximate yardstick of the benefit Mr H was giving up by transferring.
As far as Im aware, the OPS benefits  Mr H had in 1989 were his entire pension  provision  
(apart from any entitlement to state  pension). His OPS benefits couldve formed  a secure 
base that hed always be able to fall back on. On the other  hand, Mr H had 10-15 years 
before he was due to retire. It was reasonable to assume that hed be able to accumulate  
further pension  benefits to supplement his personal pension plan. From the available  
information, I also find no telling arguments around the position on death benefits.
Mr Hs representative has said he had a low attitude  to risk. As Ive set out, I think theres 
stronger evidence which suggests he had a balanced outlook. My conclusion here is 
bolstered given  he knew there was an offer on the table from BPS to transfer his UCP  
benefits and secure  annual  pension  benefits when he was 65 of £13,064.  All the personal  
pension illustrations he received showed that at the lower projection  rate of 8.5% per year, 
his funds would not achieve the BPS offer. His decision not to follow-up on the quote  doesnt 
appear consistent with the actions of someone with a low risk appetite.
For the transfer to be suitable, there  needed to be a reasonable  prospect Mr Hs personal 
pension wouldnt just match the benefits  given up in his UCP scheme  but would provide 
higher benefits.
I note TCC also carried out other modelling  for Mercer using different assumptions, given its 
view that the critical yield figure  of 5.33%  seemed  too low. Of several scenarios, it described 
the one which produced  the highest critical  yield in the following terms:
we would need to assume that the pension of £6.661.46 per annum was the pension at 
date of leaving and that all excess pension revalues (above statutory requirement) to get a 
critical yield close to the pre-retirement discount rate of 12.2% (this would give 11.58%). This 
approach gives a revalued pension at age 65 of £15,524.92 per annum. However,  this 
approach also looks wrong as a pension of £6,661.46  per annum at date of leaving implies  a 
[final pensionable  salary]  of over £31,000  which seems much  too high.
I note Mr H has again indicated his salary at the time was around £26,000. And that CSL 
hasnt provided  its own updated detailed expert analysis of what the critical yield figure  
should be.  
If 11.58%  was the critical yield required to provide an annual pension  of £15,524 at age 65, 
then its safe to assume the rate required to achieve  a pension of £13,064  the useful 
contemporaneous yardstick for his accumulated OPS  benefits quoted  by BPS in 1989 - 
wouldve been somewhat more than 1% lower. 
So, even on this measure  which  gives  Mr H the benefit of the doubt in some areas, Ive 
concluded that the FVT would still more likely than not have been met.
Even if we were to find Mr H wouldve been better  off now had he retained his OPS benefits, 
that doesnt mean the advice to transfer  must have been wrong.  It wouldnt be fair to judge 
advice given in 1989 with the benefit of hindsight, given what we now know now about 
investment returns,  interest rates, annuity  rates and inflation.
Ref: DRN239525610So, on balance, based on the information  available to me, I cant  reasonably  conclude  the 
advice for Mr H to transfer his OPS pension benefits to a personal pension  in 1989 was 
unsuitable.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2021.
 
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2395256