K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the charge  for damage thats been made by ALD Automotive Limited, 
trading as Kia Contract Hire, when he returned  his car at the end of his hire agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr S under a hire agreement with Kia Contract  Hire that he 
signed in March 2015. The agreement  ended in March 2018  and Kia Contract Hire arranged 
for the car to be collected from Mr S. The car was inspected  at that time by a third party  on 
behalf of Kia Contract Hire and damage  to all four wheels, two doors, a quarter panel and 
the rear bumper was identified. The car was inspected again  and a more detailed  photo of 
the damage to the near side front alloy wheel was taken  and Mr S was charged £90 for that 
damage. He complained to Kia Contract Hire about the charge but wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
evidence submitted wasnt conclusive and he didnt think that it was fair that Mr S should pay 
the £90 damage  charge  so he said that Kia Contract  Hire should  waive  the charge.
Kia Contract Hire has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says 
that:
the collection report confirms that the damage  to the near side front alloy wheel was 
present at the time of collection and a photo  of it was in the report so it feels that the 
evidence confirms  that the damage  was present at collection and the damage did not 
occur post collection;
the damage is clearly  visible on the photo  and the additional image  supplied  from the 
inspection at the de-fleet centre  is a close up image and demonstrates clearly the 
level of impact damage caused  to the alloy;
despite a measuring tool not being used, the damage exceeds 50mm  when the size 
of the damage  is compared to the markings on the tyre; and
its satisfied that the charge has been raised fairly and Mr S should pay the appraisal  
charge.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Kia Contract  Hire on 6 November 2019.  In my provisional  decision I said as follows:
The car was collected from Mr S in March 2018 when his hire agreement ended and 
the car was inspected  by a third party on behalf of Kia Contract  Hire.  The collection 
report  which was signed by Mr S  identified damage to all four wheels, two doors,  
a quarter panel and the rear bumper and photos  of the wheels were included. 
Even though  those  photos are taken  from above the wheels, I consider it to be clear  
from them that there was damage to the wheels. And Mr S had signed the report  and 
didnt make any comment on the report about  the damage assessment that had been 
made. 
The car was inspected again and a more detailed photo of the damage to the near 
side front wheel was taken. That photo clearly shows significant damage to that 
wheel and I consider  that the damage  is more than would be considered to be fair 
Ref: DRN23685712wear and tear in accordance with the British  Vehicle  Rental and Leasing  Association 
guidelines. But it would have been  helpful  if a measuring tool had been  used in the 
photo to show  more clearly the size of the damage.
Having looked  closely at the two photos,  the position  of the damage and the 
markings on the tyre, Im satisfied that the damage  shown on the collection  report  is 
the same  as the damage shown on the more detailed photo.  So Im not persuaded 
that the damage has been caused  after the car was collected. And Im not persuaded 
that theres enough  evidence to show that the damage is the result of a 
manufacturing issue with the cars wheels. 
Kia Contract Hire has charged  Mr S £90 for that damage. I consider that the charge 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances for the damage to the near side front 
wheel. So I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to require Kia Contract  
Hire to waive  the charge  or to take any other action in response  to Mr Ss complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mr S or Kia Contract Hire, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Kia Contract Hire has accepted my provisional decision but Mr S hasnt responded to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My provisional decision was sent to Mr S last month  by post and e-mail   and he was also 
sent an e-mail reminding him of the deadline  for responding  to it. No response  has been 
received from Mr S and I see no reason for me to change my provisional decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2368571