K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Ageas Insurance Limited declined her furniture  protection  insurance 
policy claim. My references to Ageas include  its agents.
background
In 2014 Miss P took out a five year furniture staining  and accidental  damage insurance 
policy for her leather two seat sofa.
In 2016 Miss P claimed for staining to the left hand  facing seat of the sofa (claim one). 
Ageas accepted the claim and as the stain couldnt be cleaned it replaced the cover. Ageas 
says it replaced the left hand facing seat cover only.
In 2017 Miss P reported  that the replacement covers  had gone baggy  (claim two). She 
wanted the covers  to be as tight as they were before  the refitting.  Ageas declined  the 
complaint so Miss P complained to us. We said Ageas  should  refit the covers which  it did.
In 2018 Miss P claimed for accidental damage as she said small holes  had suddenly  
appeared in the right hand  facing seat cover  (claim three). She thought the damage  had 
been caused by a puncture  but she didnt know how or when the damage happened.
Ageas declined claim three. Its furniture technician inspected the furniture  and reported  that 
the holes were natural markings in aniline leather which had opened  up. There  was no cover  
for natural flaws  under the policy. Ageas senior technicians opinion  was that the leather  had 
open pores but should have a satisfactory surface  so the cover was an unsatisfactory hide 
selection.
Miss P said Ageas had replaced  the cover for the right hand facing seat as part of the claim 
one replacement. Ageas  didnt  agree it had replaced  both seat covers.
Our investigator thought Ageas had unfairly  declined claim three. She thought Miss P saying 
the holes were caused by accidental damage was plausible as if they were natural  markings 
occurring over time Miss P would have  seen them before and so would the furniture 
technician when he saw the sofa in 2017.
Ageas disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said it could  fairly  rely on the 
professional technicians opinion about  the damage.
my provisional decisions
Ive made  two provisional decisions. 
first provisional decision
In the first I explained  why I was intending to not uphold the complaint.  I said:
The policy covers staining (which isnt relevant  for claim  three) and Accidental damage 
Leather and Leather-Look upholstery: a sudden  and accidental event resulting in a rip, tear, 
burn, scratch, puncture or scuff.
Ref: DRN27767822The policy excludes  cover  for Wear and tear consistent with the initial  quality of the product 
and the manner in which the product is used.
The furniture technicians  report  shows his opinion  is that the holes werent caused by a one 
off incident of accidental damage  (but were)  a natural characteristic of aniline leather 
covering.
The expert's opinion is that the holes  are natural markings not caused by a sudden and 
accidental event. Ageas can fairly rely on the experts opinion  to decline the claim as not 
being covered  by the accidental damage section of the policy.
Ive also considered the evidence Ageas had from the senior technician, which in effect is 
that the pores have opened because the leather covering is sub-standard.
If I thought the evidence  was that Ageas had replaced the right hand facing seat cover as 
part of claim one I would be looking to it to settle  the claim.  The relevant law requires, and 
I think it's fair and reasonable,  for Ageas to settle a claim  with reasonable skill and care.  As 
part of that it's reasonable for a replacement cover  not to be sub-standard leather  (although  
if the policy only provides  for a like for like match Id take that into account).
Ive looked at Ageas' internal notes  made  at the time of claim one and the evidence is that it 
only replaced the left hand facing seat cover.  Miss P says thats  wrong and it also replaced  
the right hand  facing  seat cover.
Ive looked at the documents we had for Miss Ps complaint about claim two. She said in her 
complaint form for that matter that Ageas replaced  both covers.  There  is mention of a new 
double seat cover in one of the technicians reports for claim two. But most of the evidence  
supports Ageas notes made at the time that only the left hand  facing seat cover  was 
replaced. On the evidence I have its probable that Ageas didnt replace the right hand facing 
seat cover.
That means the sub-standard leather is the original cover and not Ageas responsibility.  Its a 
matter Miss P may want to take up with the sofas manufacturer.
Miss P has mentioned she has a letter and a photo  to evidence that Ageas replaced both 
seat covers for claim one but Ive not seen the evidence. If she wants  to send the information 
to me in response  to my provisional decision Ill take that into account in considering the 
matter further.
second provisional decision
In response to my first provisional decision Miss P sent the letter from Ageas when the 
replacement cover was ordered  for claim one. The letter said the parts  ordered  were 1 X 
Complete 2 Seater  Seat Section Cover. She also sent photos  which  she said showed the 
newly covered sofa in 2016 together with the spare two seat covers. Miss P said the 
evidence showed  Ageas replaced both seat covers for claim one.
We sent the new evidence to Ageas and asked for its comments. It detailed  how the 
terminology in its 2016 letter  didnt mean  the parts order was for two seat covers. It also said 
Miss Ps photos could  be interpreted two ways; one to mean it replaced the two seats. It 
accepted it may have  replaced both seat covers.
Ref: DRN27767823But Ageas said it still didnt need  to meet the current claim.  The damage to Miss Ps sofa 
was a natural  marking that opened up in leather identical to the sofas original cover. It had 
ordered the replacement covers from the original manufacturer, using the unique  reference 
numbers so the replacement was as close to a like for like match  as it could provide. It said 
its senior technician  said the cover  was satisfactory.
In my second provisional decision  I explained  why I was now intending to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
From the photo evidence  Miss Ps now provided I think Ageas  probably did replace both 
seat covers for claim one.
I said in my first provisional  decision  that, irrespective of the cover given by the policy,  if 
I thought Ageas had replaced the right hand facing seat cover as part of claim one I would 
be looking  for it to settle the claim.  The relevant law requires, and I think it's fair and 
reasonable, for Ageas to settle  a claim with reasonable skill and care.  As part of that it's 
reasonable for a replacement cover not to be sub-standard leather.
I understand Ageas point that as it ordered  replacement covers from the original 
manufacturer, using  the unique reference numbers  it did what it could to get a like for like 
match. But the evidence  from its senior technician was that the leather recover  on Miss Ps 
sofa was an unsatisfactory hide selection  and that although the leather had open pores it 
should have a satisfactory surface. Even if the reference number  was the same the hides 
would have been different.
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Ageas to accept and deal with the current claim in 
line with the remaining policy  terms. The policy says claims will be settled by:
cleaning, repairing or replacing the damaged product at (Ageas)  discretion up to a 
value not exceeding the maximum liability.
If Ageas isnt able to clean, repair or replace the damaged product satisfactorily  the policy 
details other  options  Ageas can chose to provide.
Miss P has said Ageas told her when she first made  claim three the leather was no longer 
available. I dont know if thats correct but once Ive made a final decision  that Ageas must  
accept and deal with the claim it will need to contact Miss P to discuss how its going  to deal 
with her claim in line with the remaining  policy  terms.
responses to my second provisional  decision
Both parties  agreed my second  provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed my second provisional  decision  Ive no reason to change my mind. 
For the reasons  Ive given in my second  provisional decision I uphold this complaint. Ageas 
must accept  and deal with Miss Ps current claim in line with the remaining policy  terms, 
conditions and limits.
Ref: DRN27767824my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to accept and deal with Miss Ps claim  in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776782