K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC blocked  the use of her account  and also complains 
about how she was treated  by Lloyds when she tried to sort matters  out.
background
Mrs G says she told Lloyds about the pending  sale of her home and that a large  amount of 
money would  be deposited in her account. She also says she gave Lloyds details of her new 
address. Mrs G says she tried to buy a camera on line but her debit card was blocked.  She 
says she inputted the security codes Lloyds sent her but this didnt  unblock  her account. She 
contacted Lloyds but failed its security questions and says the questions were  unfair.  
Lloyds says it acted  in line with the account  terms and conditions  by applying  security  
measures where it had fraud concerns.  It says it removed the account block  within 48 hours 
and doesnt accept making a mistake or acting unfairly
Mrs G brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. He thought  where 
Lloyds had fraud concerns it was entitled to apply security measures under the terms and 
conditions of Mrs Gs account.  And he didnt think  Lloyds had acted unfairly and had tried to 
help Mrs G.
Mrs G doesnt accept  that view and says she was interrupted by rude Lloyds staff when she 
called it. She also says she told Lloyds about  her proposed payments before they were  
made and so it shouldve made a note on her records.  Mrs G says she couldnt provide  
some of the answers  to the fraud  questions as she didnt have some of the information  due 
to her moving house. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator.  I realise  Mrs G will be disappointed  by my decision 
and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats happened.
There is no doubt here that Mrs G told Lloyds  that she was expecting  a large deposit to be 
made into her account and that she wished to change  her address. I accept this was Mrs Gs 
money and its up to her what  she wishes to spend it on. But I also think  that Lloyds has a 
duty to its customers to prevent fraud. Im satisfied thats whats happened here and I also 
think that Lloyds  is entitled , in line with the account  terms  and conditions to block a 
transaction, an account or take appropriate security measures.
I have no doubt  that such  actions cause  customers a level of inconvenience  and in this case  
the transaction was genuine.  But Im satisfied such action is designed to protect Mrs Gs 
money. So I dont  think  Lloyds made a mistake by blocking the transaction.  
Ive listened to all of the calls between the parties  and in particular  the call in which  Mrs G 
failed Lloyds security  questions.  I appreciate  that Mrs G was expecting other security 
questions but I think its up to Lloyds to decide which questions it uses. I also think its up to 
Lloyds to decide if a customer passes its security  questions. Having listened to the call I 
think that Mrs G didnt  provide answers  to some  of the questions  and made  her feelings 
clear about  what she thought about  some of them. In those circumstances I dont think 
Lloyds made  a mistake  by asking Mrs G to attend its branch with proof of her identity.  I 
Ref: DRN21792152accept that wouldve caused her inconvenience  and I also appreciate what  Mrs G says about 
her health.  But I dont think Lloyds had any choice  but to request that and so I dont think  that 
request was unfair.
Overall Im satisfied that Lloyds hasnt made  a mistake and has tried to protect Mrs Gs 
money where it had, what I think,  were reasonable security concerns.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019..  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2179215