K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that unauthorised payments were made from his bank account and Lloyds 
Bank PLC are not refunding the correct amount to him.
background 
In June 2018, a health  product  was delivered to Mr Ks home. He also noticed there were 
payments out of his bank account,  which he did not recognise.
Mr K complained to Lloyds who initially refunded  the payments. They then made  an enquiry 
of the merchant through the chargeback  scheme.
The merchant defended the payments by saying  that Mr K had signed up to receive the 
health product  for which payments would be taken on a continuous basis.  Lloyds  therefore  
re-debited the payments,  which meant  Mr K went  into his overdraft.
Mr K said the merchant was wrong and brought his complaint to this Service. The 
investigator looking into the case found  there were anomalies with the information the 
merchant had provided to Lloyds.  He found that, although Mr Ks information had been  used 
to set up the payment, the evidence  did not support that it was Mr K who had provided the 
information nor was there evidence that Mr K had given any continuous payment authority.
Overall, the investigator  found that the payments had been fraudulently obtained; therefore, 
Mr K ought  to be refunded.
Lloyds ultimately agreed with that analysis, agreeing to refund Mr K including the overdraft 
charges, which  had been applied to his account. They also agreed to pay compensation to 
Mr K for his trouble and upset arising out of the complaint. Lloyds accepted  they could have 
done more to resolve the compliant.
The outstanding issue, however, is the extent of the remedy.
This is because, by the time the substantive issue of the complaint was agreed,  Mr Ks 
account with Lloyds had been  closed.  At the point of closure,  Mr Ks account was overdrawn 
- Lloyds, however,  did not require Mr K to re-pay the overdraft. 
Now that it has been established that Mr K would not have been  in overdraft had the 
payments not been re-debited, Lloyds would like to off-set  some  of the refund against what  
was owed by Mr K. The investigator agreed  and thought that was fair.
Mr K, on the other hand, believes that since Lloyds  effectively offered to write-off  the 
overdraft that means he should get the full refund with no deductions.
This complaint has come to me, therefore, to decide  what I think  is the fair and reasonable 
outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24826222The total payments  for the health  product amounted to £374. Re-debiting  this had the 
following effect on Mr Ks account:
Date Event £ Amount £ Balance of Account 
28 August 2018   Last activity 
by Mr K  - 
debit10.40 313.23
30 August 2018Re-debit by 
Lloyds374.00 -60.77
Between these  dates  the account  variously went into credit and overdraft
25 January 2019Account Closure 
-254.89
So how am I to look at this complaint? As far as is possible, I decide complaints and require  
any remedy in a way that puts a complainant back into the position  they would have been in 
but for the event complained about:  that usually involves a refund of a capital sum and 
corresponding charges. On top of that, some compensation may be appropriate in 
acknowledgement of trouble and upset.  All of which is to be assessed on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
In this case, Mr K paid £8.83 in overdraft  charges,  which were  unnecessary. And in 
acknowledgment of Mr Ks upset,  Lloyds also agree to pay Mr K £200.  I think that is fair.
So what  of the capital sum?
I should say now that the account closure  itself is subject of another complaint. So the focus 
of my decision is only how this complaint should be resolved.
To the extent it is relevant, however, I have seen  no evidence  that the closure of the account 
and the relief from the debt were in some  way contingent on one another.  
Lloyds wanted  to close the account and they were prepared to agree that Mr K was not 
required to re-pay the debt. As Mr K recognises,  Lloyds  were prepared to do that as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
I do not think that this puts Mr K in a net zero position as such. Just that Lloyds made  the 
decision to forego their right to pursue Mr K in the circumstances  as existed at the time they 
made that decision.
It does follow, however, that had Lloyds not made  the re-debit, ultimately Mr Ks closing  
balance would not have been -£254.89,  but a positive balance of £119.11.  
Ordinarily, that is what Lloyds would have remitted to Mr K upon closure.
 
Put this way, it is clear that given  that is what Lloyds would owe Mr K, there  would be no 
requirement for Mr K to give that to Lloyds or any expectation at all that Lloyds should retain 
it. So I think the converse  is also right.
I do not think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr K to have the advantage  of any agreement  
which was made in different circumstances. Putting Mr K back in the position  he would have 
Ref: DRN24826223been in means  having access to his positive balance (£119.11)  and reimbursement  of fees 
he should not have had to pay (£8.83). And compensation for the upset Mr K has 
experienced in the sum of £200.
Overall, I think the fair outcome to this complaint is that of the suggested settlement: that is 
for Lloyds  to pay Mr K a total of £327.94 to an account of Mr Ks choosing.
Recently, Mr K provided us with some correspondence from Lloyds to suggest that he had a 
residual amount (+£2.35) in a separate account.  I have  also seen evidence that Lloyds have 
acknowledged that and they have refunded the same to Mr K  further,  Lloyds are paying Mr 
K £25, by way of an apology. Because that has happened these details do not affect my 
decision here.
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint,  therefore, I require Lloyds Bank PLC, within  4 weeks  of receiving 
notification that he accepts this decision and being informed of the account into which  he 
would like payment,  to pay Mr K £327.94.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Anna Keighley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2482622