K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that AvantCredit  of UK, LLC didnt treat her fairly  when she missed 
payments due under her fixed sum loan agreement. 
background
Mrs B entered into a three  year loan agreement with AvantCredit in 2014.  Under  the 
agreement she was due to make monthly  repayments of around £145.  
Mrs B says that she missed a couple  of payments  on her loan due to financial difficulties. 
She says she wasnt prepared to have a continuous payment authority in place and instead 
asked if she could set up a standing order. She requested AvantCredits bank details on 
several occasions and wasnt  provided  with these. She says she cannot  make payment by 
debit card and that the option of issuing cheques is no longer available.  She feels that her 
requests have been ignored and says that charges have been  applied to her account but 
she hasnt been  given the information  she needs  to make payments.
Due to her financial issues Mrs B contacted a debt advice company and says she was told to 
contact AvantCredit  to negotiate  an approach to dealing with her debt. 
AvantCredit noted that Mrs B had previously complained  about  not being  able to make 
payment through a standing order or bank transfer  and that it had sent a final response letter 
regarding this on 20 September  2016.  It says Mrs B has queried setting up a standing  order  
and requested bank details  on several  occasions but as these payment options werent 
available alternative  payment  methods  were  offered.
In regard to charges applied to the account,  AvantCredit says that any charges applied  to 
the account were  in line with the loan agreement.  It says that a long term payment plan was 
set up in September 2015 but only one payment was received under this plan. Due to the 
arrears on the account Mrs Bs account was sold to a debt collection agency  on 5 July 2017. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that when AvantCredit became aware 
of Mrs Bs financial  situation it held off recovery action on her account and attempted to set 
up an affordable payment  plan. He understood that the payment mechanisms werent what  
Mrs B wanted but said she was provided  with alternative ways to make her payment.  He 
said the charges  applied  were in line with the terms of her loan. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view. She reiterated that she was charged non 
payment fees and interest by AvantCredit when it wouldnt provide her with a means of 
making payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B entered into a loan agreement and in doing so agreed  to its terms and conditions. 
Unfortunately Mrs B then experienced  financial hardship. In these circumstances we would 
expect AvantCredit  to treat Mrs B positively and sympathetically. This doesnt meant that it 
has to stop applying interest  or charges, although this is an option, but we would need to see 
that it had taken Mrs Bs situation into account  and tried to work with her.
Ref: DRN25110812Having looked  through the contact,  I can see that Mrs B first raised  her financial issues with 
AvantCredit in February  2015 following payments being missed on her account. In March 
2015 discussions were  held with Mrs B and confirmation was requested about whether she 
had entered into a debt management plan. At this time AvantCredit  said it would accept 
Mrs Bs offer of a payment of £46 as a partial payment but that this wasnt  acceptance of a 
formal payment arrangement at this time and instead a six month payment plan offer was 
made.
While I appreciate that Mrs B had provided  information about what she could afford to pay I 
accept that, at this time, a payment plan hadnt been  set up and Mrs B should have been 
aware of this. I dont  find it unreasonable that further information was needed before a 
payment plan was set up.
AvantCredit did then accept the reduced  payments Mrs B was making  and I can see that in 
September 2015 it offered  to set up a long term payment  plan for £46, the amount Mrs B 
said she could pay. This shows  that AvantCredit  was trying to work  with Mrs B.
I have looked  through  the charges that have been  applied to Mrs Bs account. The first fee 
was applied in March 2015. Given Mrs B had missed payments at this time I dont think  this 
was unreasonable. Fees  were then applied in most months until the September  2015 
payment plan was set up. Fees werent  then charged until July 2016 after which  fees were 
applied on a regular  basis.  While  I appreciate Mrs Bs comments  about the fees, these have 
been applied  in line with the terms and conditions of her agreement.  As Mrs B didnt make  
the payments  required under the agreement and then missed payments due under her 
repayment plan I dont find I can say the fees have been applied unfairly.
The key part of Mrs Bs complaint  is about the payment options available. I understand she 
feels she should have  been given bank  details from AvantCredit and that she shouldnt have 
had charges applied while she was requesting payment  detail information.  However,  this 
issue has already  been  addressed in a final response letter dated September  2016. I can 
see Mrs B has continued to request bank account details in order to set up a standing order  
but this has already been addressed.
I appreciate Mrs Bs ongoing comments about the payment options available to her but 
based on what I have  seen I think she has been provided with the information about  what 
options are available and so I cannot  say that AvantCredit has treated her unfairly.
Mrs Bs account has now been  passed  to a third party and I cannot hold AvantCredit  
responsible for any issues Mrs B has regarding the management of her account by the third 
party.
I can see how upsetting  this issue has been for Mrs B and that she feels she hasnt been 
treated fairly. However based on the information I have  seen, AvantCredit has provided  her 
with the information she needed  in order to make payments  and has tried to work  with her 
given her financial situation. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN25110813my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019.  
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511081