K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Miss M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Miss M that she had a choice  
about it. Miss M says she only selected  the PPI because she was told to by a Capital  One 
advisor over the phone. But she hasnt given us much detail about what was said.
Capital One says Miss M applied for the credit card by post and it didnt speak  to her over 
the phone  during the application. Its sent us a copy of Miss Ms application form for the 
credit card. This included a section on PPI with yes and no boxes to be ticked  if Miss M 
wanted to take it out. And the yes box has been ticked.
I think Miss M couldve  left the PPI section blank, or ticked the no box, if she didnt want the 
PPI. And I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that Capital One told her she 
had to have the PPI. So I think  its likely Capital One made it clear to Miss M that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that she chose to take it, knowing she didnt have  to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One assessed Miss M circumstances or gave her 
any personalised advice about  the PPI. So I dont  think it recommend the PPI to her. This 
means it didnt have to check  if the PPI was right for her. But it did have to make  sure she 
got the information she needed in order to decide  if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss M about the PPI, including about the 
costs, benefits and exclusions of the policy, wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But, based 
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the cover. Its likely the PPI wouldve paid out for longer 
than she wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant she didnt need  to rely 
on any savings she had if he wasnt earning.  So the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Miss M off taking  it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because :
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell 
Miss M, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN24894432To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Miss M any extra interest 
she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss M the difference 
between what Miss M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss M 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2489443