K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  taken alongside 
their mortgage. The mortgage and the PPI was sold to them  by Cheltenham  & Gloucester 
Plc. (C&G).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 6 February  2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms party of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  the 
offer that has been made by C&G  to resolve  the complaint is fair.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs G said they would still argue that C&G  
had chosen an arbitrary date of 2001  as the time Mr and Mrs G stopped payments for the 
PPI. They  couldnt  find any reason  for this date,  or a later date.  They accepted the data 
wasnt available but still thought C&G should make  a larger offer of compensation as it had 
accepted Mr and Mrs G were paying  for the PPI. 
C&G didn't reply to my provisional decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  that C&G did have  records  from January 2002. So if 
Mr and Mrs G were still making PPI payments these would have been  recorded. 
Mr and Mrs G have said they werent happy with this date  it was arbitrary. 
What C&G has given us is the actual data of Mr and Mrs Gs account  from January 2002. 
And PPI wasnt being paid. So it is reasonable to assume that the policy  was cancelled 
some time between the date the policy was taken  October 1996  and December 2001 
(the last month where data isnt available). And C&G, to be fair to Mr and Mrs G, have 
offered compensation for the PPI payments for the longest possible period, October  1996  to 
December 2001.  
So I am satisfied that C&G has offered compensation for the maximum time the policy  could 
have been paid for, even though it could have been cancelled at anytime  after it had been 
taken in 1996  and potentially at a much earlier  date than the date C&G is using.
As C&G hasnt given  me anything more to consider further to my provisional  decision 
findings, I confirm  those findings. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, and above, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Gs complaint,  but I think the offer made  by Cheltenham  & Gloucester Plc is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  by 12 April 2019.  
Ref: DRN28700512Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN28700513copy of provisional decision 
background
In December 1995 Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage with C&G. The mortgage amount was for 
£80,000. In September 1996 they applied for a further £10,000 for home  improvements. They  also 
took PPI  they thought with both of the borrowings. 
The PPI was in the name of Mr G only. If he wasnt able to work because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary unemployment  the PPI would have covered the monthly mortgage repayment for up to 12 
months per claim. It would have also paid an additional  amount of £3.00 for every £1,000 they had 
borrowed. 
Mr and Mrs G complained to C&G that they had been mis-sold the PPI. C&G  rejected the complaint.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint.  He wrote to the parties  explaining that he thought  the 
1995 sale should be upheld but for the 1996 sale it looked like Mr and Mrs G had made clear  they 
wanted to take the policy. 
C&G then said they would  make an offer. The amount  was for £6,147.48 and was calculated on the 
PPI premiums paid from October 1996 to December 2001. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the offer.  
Our adjudicator provided  further information about how C&G  had calculated the compensation but 
Mr and Mrs G still disagreed with it. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me for decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold  we expect the business to put the consumer in the 
position they would have been in as if they hadnt taken the policy  as far as is possible. This means  
a repayment of all of the premiums paid and any additional interest or costs, plus statutory interest at 
a rate of 8% for the time the consumer has been out of pocket.
When we first contacted C&G about the sales it referred to them  as assumed  sales.  This means that 
it doesnt have all of the evidence or information  available  from the time of the sales. But it assumed  
that it had given advice to Mr and Mrs G to take the PPI. This meant it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for their circumstances. C&G also assumed the policy was taken  from the outset of the 
mortgage  December 1995.
After the adjudicator sent his opinion  that the 1995 PPI sale should  be upheld C&G  decided to make 
an offer. When it looked  at its records to make  the compensation calculation, it only had records of the 
PPI being paid for from October 1996 (the date of the second loan) and that the payments finished in 
2001.  
It also found  that the policy  had paid out a claim of £237.36 and it deducted this amount from the 
compensation payable to Mr and Mrs G.
Mr and Mrs G didn't agree. They didn't recall making any claim and had made  mortgage repayments 
up until 2016.  They provided statements of those payments. And they didn't remember  cancelling the 
PPI.
Ive seen a copy of the records of Mr and Mrs Gs PPI payments that C&G has now been able to 
provide. And from what  Ive seen it seems most likely that Mr and Mrs G didn't  pay for any PPI until 
October 1996. So it follows  that PPI wasnt taken with the 1995 mortgage. 
Ref: DRN28700514Ive looked at the statements  Mr and Mrs G have given us. And even though they show the mortgage 
repayments were still being made, there isnt any record of PPI being  paid. So it looks unlikely 
Mr and Mrs G were paying for PPI over the whole  of the term of their mortgage. 
C&G has told us it does  have records from January  2002 and if Mr and Mrs G were still paying  for PPI 
at that time then this would be evident. But there isnt anything to show this. So it looks like 
Mr and Mrs G cancelled  their PPI sometime prior to January 2002 but C&G doesnt know when. 
But to be fair to Mr and Mrs G, C&G has assumed the latest possible  cancellation date of the policy 
before its records  began  where  it would have known they were still paying  the PPI. So C&G has 
assumed that Mr and Mrs G were paying for PPI for the longest possible time whereas the policy 
could have been cancelled at an earlier  date than December 2001. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G cant recall making  a claim on the policy but the records C&G  has 
been able to provide do indicate this happened. And those  records show the payment was made in 
1997 which was over 20 years  ago so it is completely understandable that Mr and Mrs G might not be 
able to remember this. On balance, I think its more  likely that the payment was made. 
In cases  like this, when the sale was so long ago and we dont have everything from that time, or 
since, I have to consider that I think was more likely to have happened on the balance of probabilities. 
Overall, and taking into account the limited and incomplete evidence  that is available, Im satisfied the 
offer C&G has made to Mr and Mrs G is fair.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G might not agree  with this but I would like to assure  them  I have taken 
all of their comments  and evidence into account.  But Ive considered  their case  on balance, and what 
I think  more likely happened.  I hope  Ive been able to explain to them how Ive reached the decision 
that I have.  
Ref: DRN2870051