K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2000. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I didnt think  the complaint should  
be upheld. I asked the parties to provide me with any further  evidence  or information they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision. Both parties confirmed they had 
nothing further  to add. 
My provisional decision is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As neither party has provided me with any further  information, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. I havent upheld the complaint in respect of mis-sold PPI. So 
Barclays doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But Barclays has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27668312COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection insurance 
(PPI) to her alongside  a credit card in 2000. 
background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. Barclays  disagreed with that view.  And so 
the matter has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Ref: DRN27668313my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs P, but as things stand, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. And I think  
the offer Barclays made  to pay back some of the commission it received is a fair way to settle the 
complaint. 
Mrs P told us that she couldnt remember how PPI was sold to her. Barclays told us it was sold on the 
telephone after shed already received  her credit card. Looking at the paperwork and the records 
Barclays sent to us, I think thats probably  right. I havent  been given  a call recording,  which isnt 
unusual as the policy was sold such a long time ago. And as Mrs P cant remember the call, Ive relied  
on the records  Barclays  sent to us to help me decide whats likely  to have happened. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs P would  have known the PPI was optional and she 
didnt have to take it out if she didnt  want  it. Ive seen a copy of her credit  card application form and 
Mrs P declined the PPI policy at that time. And by the time she bought the cover, it looks as though 
she would have already  received her card. So I dont think shed have thought PPI was a condition of 
the credit.  I think shed  have known she could have refused it if she didnt want  it. 
Barclays told us that it advised Mrs P to buy this cover. So it had to make sure the policy  was suitable 
for her needs.  To help me decide  whether  it was suitable, Ive looked at what the terms and conditions 
of the policy. And Ive also thought about what she told us about her personal circumstances at the 
time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim  on the PPI policy,  10% of Mrs Ps balance would  have 
been repaid for up to 12 months if she became unwell  or if she lost her job. Mrs P told us that she 
would have had less than three months sick pay from work and she didnt have any other way to 
make payments towards her credit card if she was out of work. It follows then that I think  the PPI 
would have offered benefits over and above the means Mrs P already had in place. 
Mrs P told us she was in good health at the time she bought this policy. So I dont think  shed have 
been affected  by any of the exclusions about medical  conditions. I havent seen anything  unusual  
about her employment circumstances that would  have stopped  her from making a successful claim if 
she needed  to. With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably was suitable  for her. 
Barclays still had to give Mrs P enough  information about the cover  so she could decide  for herself  
whether it was a good fit for her needs.  That information had to be fair, clear and not misleading. In 
the absence of a call recording, I accept its possible  that Barclays didnt tell Mrs P everything it 
should have done about the cover.  But Ive set out above how the PPI could have  been helpful  at 
what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for her if she was out of work. And I appreciate 
that Mrs P doesnt now remember, but I think she probably chose to take this cover out at the time. So 
I dont think more or better information about the policy would have put her off taking it out. 
So what this means is that provisionally, Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mrs P. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mrs P about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN27668314Ive provisionally decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank  UK PLC does  have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand  it has already  done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 30 
April 2019 after which I will issue a final decision. 
Nicola Bowes 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2766831