K820x#14complaint
On behalf of his business,  firm A, Mr S complains  that Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd wrongly declined a claim made  on the firms  commercial  insurance policy.  
It also voided the policy (treated it as though it had never  existed) and kept the premium.
background
Berkshire Hathaway rejected the claim Mr S made  after one of firm As vans  was stolen. 
It told him it was treating  the policy as void and would retain the large  premium  Mr S had 
paid for it. It said on the fleet proposal form, Mr S had answered  incorrectly a question about 
whether hed ever been a director of a company  that went  into liquidation. It also said he 
hadnt disclosed three county court judgements. Berkshire Hathaway kept the premium  as it 
thought Mr S had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the facts to it. 
Mr S said when he completed the proposal form, it had been five years  since he was 
involved in the companys  liquidation. He said as Berkshire Hathaway didnt ask about 
county court judgements (CCJs).  So he didnt think it wanted to know  about them. He didnt 
agree that hed acted deliberately or recklessly.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ss complaint. He thought  Berkshire Hathaway had 
acted reasonably. He said it was for Mr S to make a fair representation of risk to it. So he 
needed to tell it anything that may affect  its decision to offer cover. He thought Mr S hadnt 
given it all the material facts (those  likely to affect  the way the request  for cover was viewed). 
Mr S said hed answered the question about the directorship  incorrectly  as it wasnt fresh in 
his mind. He didnt think it was fair for him to have  to decide what facts the insurer  needed to 
know. He said that was vague and couldnt have been the intention of the relevant rules.  
The investigator said the policy was voided due to a false  statement from Mr S when he took 
out the policy. He said the proposal form stated  if an incorrect  answer  was given in relation 
to section four of the form, the policy would be cancelled and the premiums kept. That 
section included the question about  directorships. As there was no agreement,  the complaint 
was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
The Insurance Act 2015 covers misrepresentation in commercial cases. It places a higher  
duty on those  seeking commercial insurance than the one that applies to ordinary consumer  
contracts. A person applying for commercial  cover (the proposer) must make  a fair 
presentation of the risk to the insurer. That means the proposer  must state all the material 
facts he or she knows - or ought  to know  that may influence the insurers  decision. All 
material facts must  be volunteered, even if the insurer  doesnt ask about  an issue.
In this case, the policy was provided  based  on the details set out in the proposal form. 
Mr Ss involvement with the company that went into liquidation wasnt recent. But Id have 
thought a question asking  whether he had ever been a director  of such  a company  should 
have prompted  him. And Mr S had just been  asked  to say whether hed ever traded under a 
different name. He said he had and gave the names  of two former firms. One of them  was 
the company that had gone  into liquidation when he was its director.   
Ref: DRN28327902Berkshire Hathaway has provided  underwriting evidence  that shows  it wouldnt have offered 
Mr S a policy had it known about  the directorship.  I can see why it thought Mr S had 
deliberately or recklessly  (not caring  whether it was material  or not) failed to disclose a 
material fact. He signed the proposal  form to say that to the best of his knowledge  all the 
details hed given  were true. On the same page,  a section  headed  Important says the 
proposer should check the details  given provide a fair presentation of the risk. It says making 
a false statement or withholding a material fact could result in the policy  being void.  And it 
advises proposers  to disclose facts if they arent sure if theyre  material or not.   
In my view, it was reasonable for Berkshire Hathaway to void the policy,  decline the claim 
and keep the premium.  I think  it was fair for it to base its decisions on Mr S having 
deliberately or recklessly  not given the right reply  to the question  about the directorship.  
Mr S also failed to mention the three CCJs in his name. I think most people  wanting a 
commercial policy would  realise that an insurer  might like to be told about any CCJs. A 
proposers financial history is likely to be of interest.  Although Mr S doesnt think it should 
have been his role to decide what might be a material  fact, thats what  was required. I think  it 
was fair for Berkshire Hathaway  to expect that Mr S should have known it would  want  to 
know about his CCJs as well as his directorship.
As I dont think Berkshire Hathaway acted unreasonably, I cant uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2832790