K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a claim 
under his building warranty. Hes also unhappy that its refused to carry out further  
investigations.
background
Mr W bought his property  in 1999. It came with a ten year warranty.
In 2008 he contacted NHBC  because there  were  cracks on the external brickwork of the 
property. NHBC  sent an investigator  to inspect the damage. The builder didnt attend the 
inspection. The investigator said the damage  could have been  caused by thermal movement 
and was only minor.  Based  on that NHBC said the damage wasnt covered  by the warranty  
and it didnt accept  the claim.
Mr W says he discovered new cracks in 2017  and the existing cracks had become worse.  So 
he contacted NHBC  again.  It sent another claims investigator to inspect the damage. 
Following that visit NHBC didnt change its decision to decline the original claim. It said the 
damage wasnt serious enough to be covered by the warranty and it hadnt been caused by 
something covered  by the warranty.
Mr W referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
NHBC had done  anything wrong. As Mr W didnt agree, the matter  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr W is concerned about the cracks in his property, particularly since  
neighbouring properties appear to have suffered from subsidence. But I also have to take 
into account that his NHBC warranty -in common with other insurance policies- only covers 
certain things and that exclusions  and limits apply. So Ive looked at whether NHBC 
assessed his claim  correctly and I think it did.
In years three to ten of the warranty NHBC is only liable  to pay the cost of repairing any 
Major Damage which first appears  and is reported to it before the end of the ten year 
warranty period.  The Major Damage has to have  been caused  by a defect in the structure 
or caused by subsidence, settlement or heave affecting the structure.
Ref: DRN28786042Major Damage is defined  as:
damage to the Home necessitating  complete or partial rebuilding of the Home or 
extensive repair work to it. 
In the case of walls and floors it is restricted to severe damage of the type described in 
categories 4 & 5 in Tables 1 & 2 of the Building  Research Establishment Digest  No 251 
(Revised August  1990). In other  cases it is restricted to damage  of similar severity.
The damage to Mr Ws walls was discovered in years three to ten of the warranty.  So if the 
damage isnt Major Damage as defined above,  then it isnt covered by the warranty,  
regardless of what caused it.
NHBCs investigator in 2008 reported:
All elevations of the house and garage were  visually inspected and the only crack  damage 
evident at the time of the investigation consisted  of hairline vertical cracking between the 
head of the dining room  patio door opening and the underside  of the bedroom  window over.
In 2017 NHBCs claims investigator found various cracks. It said none  were more than 1mm 
wide and there werent any corresponding cracks inside the house. 
Its impossible  for me to say from looking at the photos provided  how wide the cracks  are. 
But I note that category  4 referred  to above is extensive damage where sections of wall 
need to be replaced and typical crack widths would be 15 to 25mm. Category 5 is structural  
damage which involves  partial or complete rebuilding with typical crack widths  greater than 
25mm. Mr W says several of the cracks are well over 1mm wide.  But I havent seen any 
evidence that suggests the width of the cracks is anything like as bad as 15mm.
With regard to what repairs  are needed,  NHBCs investigator said suitable repairs to re-point 
the cracks  and replace the cracked  bricks would take approximately one day and were 
considered to be minor and cosmetic. Again I havent seen any evidence to contradict this.
Overall Im not persuaded  that the property  has suffered Major Damage as defined in the 
warranty. That means I dont have to look at whether the cracks were caused by a defect in 
the structure or by subsidence, settlement or heave  affecting the structure. 
Mr W feels strongly that NHBC should  carry out further investigations to establish whats  
causing the cracks.  But since  I think  NHBC acted reasonably in saying  that the damage 
wasnt serious enough to be covered by his warranty, I dont think its under any obligation to 
find out whats causing the damage  it would only need to do that if it were liable to repair it.
Mr W also says NHBCs  reports are misleading, contradictory and contain  falsified 
information. The reports were written about  nine years apart from each other by different 
investigators. The first report  attributes the cause of the cracking to thermal movement. The 
second investigator said the cause of cracking  was unknown. I agree  thats  a difference of 
opinion. But I dont  think it matters  - to my mind the most important point coming  out of both 
reports is the fact that the investigators  thought the damage was minor.  
Im not convinced that NHBC  intended  to mislead  Mr W or that it falsified information. Its 
description of the damage to his property  appears  to me to be supported  by the photos Ive 
seen which  show a ruler giving a measure of the cracks.
Ref: DRN28786043Mr W isnt happy that the original builder hasnt taken part in the investigations  or attended 
site visits with NHBC. But NHBC isnt under any obligation under the warranty  to ensure the 
builder does so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2878604