K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS for short) wont refund a payment 
made on his credit card to a secondary ticket selling website (the Website) for some  
concert tickets. 
background
In January 2018 two tickets were purchased through the Website  to attend  a concert using 
Mr Ps NBS credit card. Mr P bought them so he and his daughter could attend a concert. 
The total cost charged to his card was just over £250.
Later Mr P discovered the tickets he received were not seated  tickets, as he says he was 
expecting, but rather  standing general  admission tickets. Mr P decided not to go to the 
concert because of this. So Mr P asked NBS to help. 
NBS looked into the matter,  but it didnt think it could help. This was because it didnt think  it 
pursue a chargeback further because  it didnt have a reasonable prospect of success.  It also 
thought a Section 75 claim should also be unsuccessful.
Mr P didnt think this was fair, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator  
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think NBS had acted unfairly by declining Mr Ps 
request for a refund.  Mr P didnt agree. So the complaint has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has a linked complaint to this one about  how NBS treated  him about his account  and 
specifically about  his credit file. I understand this complaint has already had a final decision 
issued on it. As a consequence I will not comment about how NBS treated his account after 
he purchased the tickets  that Ive mentioned already. I will only consider whether the 
transaction was authorised and how NBS dealt with Mr Ps request for help regarding  the 
tickets.
I should also make clear that this decision is not about the secondary  ticket selling Website, 
which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Nor is about the 
original purchaser  of the tickets who then decided to sell the tickets through the secondary 
ticket selling Website which Mr P then bought. There are a number of different issues  within  
this complaint and I shall deal with them in turn.
Mr P accepts he made this transaction  for these tickets and he hasnt  disputed  that he knew  
the amount he was paying. He also accepts  that he was willing to purchase two tickets at 
that price.  Only after the purchase, once he had concerns about the exact  nature of the 
tickets hed purchased  did he speak to NBS. So having considered what Mr P has said 
(including that he made this purchase and paid for the tickets)  and the evidence  of NBS, Im 
satisfied the transaction was properly authorised by Mr P and correctly applied  to Mr Ps 
credit card account with NBS. 
Ref: DRN23187402could NBS challenge the transaction  through a chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr P does 
here, NBS (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through  a chargeback  process.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback 
has been successful.  But I should  add that card providers and indeed  merchants may decide 
to refund the cardholder for a variety of reasons including  goodwill, commercial  pragmatism  
and other  reasons along with outcome of the chargeback being successful through the 
actual chargeback process. So the cardholder receiving a refund doesnt necessarily mean 
that card issuers should refund  every transaction similar to this one.
I dont think NBS couldve challenged the payment on the basis  Mr P didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue  that Ive already set out.
NBS is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success  when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. The Website would then receive that chargeback  
request and may agree to refund the payment or may contest the chargeback. If it contests, 
then NBS should consider this and then if it still feels  the chargeback is warranted then it can 
take the chargeback further and ultimately  to the scheme provider (not NBS) who will then 
make an independent determination  on the matter. So NBS isnt solely responsible  for the 
decision whether  to refund or not when going  through the chargeback  process. And it can 
decide to not proceed at any stage if it doesnt  think there is a reasonable prospect of 
success.
NBS has told us it raised a chargeback and it was unsuccessful. It has said that Mr P got 
tickets to the concert he wanted to go to. Mr P argues that he wanted  seated tickets with an 
unrestricted view,  but he got general admission  standing tickets. Mr P hasnt described 
where the seated tickets he thought he was purchasing were positioned in the stadium or 
given any great detail about  which seated tickets he thought he purchased. 
I see that he has argued in his original complaint to the Website  that the concert was in a 
stadium and in a stadium  it should be all seater like the football . I can see that when Mr P 
complained to the website it said that the tickets he got were  correct  and valid. I can also 
see on the automated  ticket confirmation which Mr P received when he ordered the tickets 
that there  is no seat number, row number  or block number given -which you would expect if 
hed bought seated tickets. It also says the tickets are general admission.
In short  Mr P says he wanted to buy the tickets at that price, authorised the transaction and 
got the tickets.  There is a lack of evidence supporting  the chargeback as NBS has 
described. I appreciate  Mr Ps comments regarding not taking pictures of the process he 
went through online at the time.  But considering what it knew, all in all, I think  NBS decision 
that there  wasnt a reasonable  prospect of success in going through  the chargeback process  
any further is fair and reasonable  in my opinion. The website made clear that it didnt think  it 
had done anything wrong and had evidence of the purchase. Mr P hadnt provided sufficient 
persuasive evidence  for NBS to think the website  had got it wrong. So I think  Mr P hasnt lost 
out due to NBS  position  on this matter. I think NBS  position that there  wasnt  a reasonable 
prospect of success if it continued  to be fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN23187403how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
The transaction was made using Mr Ps NBS s credit card. Under section 75 of this Act, in 
certain circumstances,  he has an equal  right to claim against NBS as he does  against  the 
supplier (the Website) if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier if certain conditions are met. 
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in 
place. The Websites terms and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who 
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Websites  
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the 
Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does 
provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website  says 
it:
charges  a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out 
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Websites name] platform, guaranteeing 
tickets and providing customer service.
So in effect,  there is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mr P, NBS and the 
Website, albeit  not for the direct provision of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website 
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee. 
So I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time, 
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, its 
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their 
obligations around supplying the tickets.  
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided 
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100. Ive seen copies of the tickets 
purchased, which show  a face value (including fee) of £49.50.  And we know  that Mr P paid 
just over £250 for the pair of tickets. Ive not seen a breakdown of the tickets, so it is unclear 
how much  went  to the seller of the tickets and how much went  to the website.  But whether or 
not this dispute meets  the financial limits required for Section 75 doesnt  make a difference  
for the reasons I shall now explain. 
For a successful claim Mr P would need to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
by the Website.  Mr P has repeatedly argued that he didnt get what he bought, namely 
tickets for seats (rather than standing tickets which  he received).
It seems  to me that it is possible that Mr P is merging the responsibilities  of the ticket seller 
and the Website.  But the situation is that they are distinct sets of actions and responsibilities.  
And I can only uphold  this complaint against NBS here if it fails in some way or that I am 
persuaded that the website has breached or misrepresented the service it provides. But it 
seems to me more  likely that Mr P did inadvertently buy standing tickets as he bought the 
tickets through  an automated process  and the automated confirmation showed hed bought 
standing tickets. And this was later confirmed by the website.   And Mr Bs explanation of 
what happened during the ticket buying  process isnt particularly detailed  to my mind. And I 
Ref: DRN23187404note his argument regarding all stadiums are all seater. So its possible he just assumed  he 
was getting seats for a concert  in a stadium. So Im not persuaded he got something  
different to that he bought.
Mr P says he decided not to attend  the concert because the tickets he got were standing 
tickets. Ultimately it was Mr Ps choice to not attend the event. And although most tickets  
(including this one) state they are not transferable the website makes clear  that it is a ticket 
reselling website. So Mr P was on notice he was buying a ticket  through  a ticket reselling 
website when he bought this ticket.  So Im not persuaded the website and hence  NBS has 
done anything  wrong here. I think Mr P got the tickets he bought.
But for the similar reasons  as described earlier and above Im not persuaded that there was 
breach or misrepresentation  here by the website. The Website has said that its a ticket  
reselling website. It has provided a service  (as Ive described) and I am not persuaded it has 
breached the contract in providing  that service  which it provides. Nor has it misrepresented 
that service to Ms M to my mind. 
In summary  I think that Mr P hasnt lost out here as I think NBS made  a fair decision in not 
taking the chargeback further. Im not persuaded that there has been  a breach or 
misrepresentation here by the website.  And I think NBS correctly  applied the cost of the 
tickets to Mr Ps credit card account.  So I dont think I can fairly require NBS to refund Mr P 
for the tickets. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building  
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to let me 
know whether he accepts or rejects my decision before  5 September 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2318740