K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a large payment he made  through Bank  of Scotland  plc. It went  
through twice  and he wants  his money back.
background
Mr S wanted  to use his Bank of Scotland online banking to make a payment for £5000.  He 
received a message saying he needed  to contact the bank for additional security.  Mr S said 
while he was confirming  the additional information the first payment completed.  But it was 
then put through again. So Mr S paid the same  person twice.
Mr S said the bank shouldve checked  the first payment hadnt  completed before making the 
second payment.  He wasnt able to complete a business deal because  of the banks 
mistake. So he wants  compensation for the embarrassment and loss hes suffered. 
Bank of Scotland said Mr S had instructed  an online payment  for £5000 on 9 April 2019. It 
was referred for additional security. The bank said itd sent a message to Mr S asking him to 
contact its fraud team. Mr S didnt respond. And the banks  procedure was to then suspend 
online access to protect  against possible fraud. 
Bank of Scotland said the payment had been made twice because Mr S had also called its 
telephone banking service on 9 April.  Mr S told the service  he couldnt make  the payment 
online. So it was completed by telephone banking. The bank re-instated online access  to 
Mr Ss account on 11 April after he called  the fraud team. Mr S confirmed he wanted  the 
blocked payment  to be completed.  Bank  of Scotland said hed agreed £5000 had been 
debited from his account on 9 April via telephony. And hed obtained a paper statement from 
his branch which confirmed the debit had been  made.
The bank accepted Mr S had been given misleading information about  getting back  the 
second payment.  It was trying to recover the money.  But it couldnt guarantee it would be 
successful. Bank of Scotland offered Mr S £50 for any upset caused. And it offered a further 
£15 for his call costs.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Bank  of Scotlands response. So he contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He listened to Mr Ss calls with the bank and he felt it was 
clear a payment  was made during Mr Ss conversation  with the telephone  banking service. 
And he couldnt hold the bank responsible for a second payment  being  made  two days  later. 
Mr S had explained where the money  had come from. And hed confirmed the blocked 
payment should  leave  his account.
Mr S didnt agree. Bank of Scotland told him hed get his money back.  He wants more  
compensation. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how upsetting this mustve been  for Mr S. A large  payment  was duplicated. 
So Ive looked  very carefully at whats happened  and whether Bank of Scotland  has made 
any mistakes. 
Ref: DRN27518912On 9 April 2019  Mr Ss online payment didnt complete. And Bank  of Scotland  asked him to 
get in touch. It wanted to make sure Mr S had authorised the transaction. The bank said it 
also sent Mr S a text message. But Mr S says he didnt receive it.
Ive looked at the banks  log for the messages it sent on 9 April. At 21:52  it sent a message 
to say Mr S had recently changed his login  details. At 21:55  it sent a message to confirm 
hed set up a new recipient.  And at 22:27 it asked Mr S to get in touch about the recent 
payment request. So I think Bank  of Scotland made  reasonable attempts to contact Mr S 
and make sure it was him accessing  the account  and requesting the payment.
Mr S didnt contact the fraud team. He called Bank of Scotlands telephone banking  service 
and explained  his payment hadnt  gone  through. The telephone banking service  confirmed  
his identity and made  the payment on the same  evening.  Mr S was told the transaction  had 
completed. And the money  would be with the other  party  within two hours.
Because Mr S hadnt contacted the banks fraud team it suspended his online access.  And I 
think that was a reasonable action. The bank needed to protect itself and Mr S from possible 
fraud. On 11 April Mr S spoke to the fraud team  and his access  was restored. He confirmed 
the blocked £5000 online transaction had been legitimate. The banks representative  
checked a number of details. And Mr S was asked if he wanted the payment to go through. 
Mr S confirmed that he did. 
Mr Ss account became  overdrawn. And he feels Bank of Scotland shouldve done more  to 
check before  making the second  payment. But Mr S had explained  that hed recently 
received £10000.  So I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank  to make a second £5000 
payment.
I do think Mr S was given misleading  information  about how quickly  he might  get his money 
back. He was told the bank would normally be able to recover  the money within  24 hours. 
But that was only the case if the mistake had been  made by the bank. If the payment wasnt  
a bank error then Bank of Scotland could  only ask for the payment to be returned.  There  was 
no timeframe  or guarantee of success. And unfortunately Bank  of Scotland hasnt been able 
to recover the second  payment. 
Mr S says hes not able to contact the person and ask for it to be returned. And he feels he 
should be compensated more for the banks mistakes. He couldnt complete a business deal 
because of the error. And its caused  him financial loss and embarrassment. But I cant really  
say the second payment was made because of anything Bank  of Scotland did wrong.  Mr S 
contacted the bank  on two separate occasions. And from what Ive seen he confirmed he 
wanted to make the payment on both occasions.  So I cant  hold the bank responsible for 
Mr Ss loss.
Bank of Scotland has accepted it gave Mr S the wrong information about recovering the 
payment. So its offered  Mr S a total of £65 for the mistake and the costs of his calls. I realise 
Mr S feels  the bank should offer more.  But I think thats a fair response  in the circumstances. 
And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN27518913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2751891