K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Financial and Legal  Insurance Company Ltd took too long to repair his 
damaged wing mirror.  
background
In December 2016 Mr B had a car accident, which led to damage  to his vehicle including  the 
wing mirror of his car, and the day after he made a claim on his car insurance.  
Mr B had a car insurance policy underwritten by Royal  and Sun Alliance (RSA) and a Legal 
expenses policy underwritten by Financial and Legal insurance.  MSL Legal  expenses were 
acting as agents on behalf  of Financial and Legal  insurance. 
MSL organised for Mr B to have  his car repaired in March  2017 but after the repairs, Mr B 
was unhappy  that his wing mirror hadnt  been repaired. So he complained to MSL.  
In response to Mr Bs complaint MSL advised  that they hadnt received authorisation from 
Mr Bs insurance company, RSA, to complete repairs to his wing mirror  and for this reason 
hadnt repaired it. They didnt  think  they done  anything wrong,  and didnt uphold  Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with MSLs response, so complained to our service.  
Since making this complaint Mr Bs wing mirror  has been replaced through  his insurance 
policy. But he complains that MSL took too long to complete  the repairs to his wing mirror, 
and this caused his inconvenience. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint and concluded that Financial and 
Legal insurance hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree with the view. In summary his main  points  were:
-He wasnt given  the opportunity to explain the damage  in the initial  call
-He reported  the damaged mirror to MSL on a number of occasions  before it was 
repaired
-Hes spent a lot of time writing  letters and making telephone calls which is 
unnecessary and he should  be compensated for this
As Mr B didnt agree  with the investigators  conclusions, the complaints been  passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I dont think Financial and 
Legal insurance need to do anything further. 
Ive considered Mr Bs argument that Financial  and Legal insurance delayed the repair of his 
wing mirror. In doing so Ive reviewed the evidence provided by both Mr B and Financial and 
Legal Insurance. Ive listened  to the call Mr B made to MSL on the day after the accident, 
where he detailed  what happened  during this call there was no mention of damage  to the 
Ref: DRN25644892wing mirror. I agree with Mr B, the conversation about damage to his car was brief  but he 
did confirm his car was hit in the rear and damage was caused to the bumper.  Mr B didnt 
explain that a short time later the same driver hit his wing mirror.  Even if Mr B had mentioned  
the damage to the wing mirror to MSL at time, RSA are the underwriters of his policy  and 
were required  to authorise any repairs before MSL could carry them out.  
Ive looked at the authorisation  document completed  by RSA and sent to MSL, dated  
16 January 2017.  The document says the repairs must be carried  out strictly in accordance  
with the agreed  terms before detailing the agreed repairs.  In this section the work agreed is 
listed and theres no mention of the wing mirror needing to be repaired. So I can fully 
understand why MSL didnt repair the wing mirror at this point, in fact they didnt have the 
authorisation to do so, and only replaced the mirror at a later date when instructed to do so 
by RSA. 
Mr B says that he asked  MSL on a number of occasions before the repairs were  completed,  
to fix the wing mirror   but as Ive explained above MSL werent  able to carry  out the repairs 
without authorisation  from RSA.  So, this doesnt  change my opinion. 
In conclusion I dont  think that MSL, acting  on behalf of Financial and Legal insurance,  
caused any significant delays when replacing the wing mirror on Mr Bs car. And I dont think 
Financial and Legal need to do anymore here.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2564489