K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
November 1999.  Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out. For example, I have  seen the application form Mr A completed 
and under a section  called Payment Protection Plan  it gave  the option of ticking yes 
or no to including PPI with the credit card and the yes option was ticked. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And based on what hes told us about his employers sick pay policy, he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
All of which means  Barclays  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr A, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what hes said about having  no idea 
he had PPI. However, as the sale took place  many years ago, I dont think  its surprising if 
Mr A cannot  remember agreeing to it. So these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN23160802what the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Barclays should  also pay back to Mr A any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr A the difference  
between what Mr A owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr A 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2316080