K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society (NBS) mis-sold them a regular 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy with their mortgage.  The policy covered Mr B 
only for accident, sickness and unemployment and would have provided a monthly benefit of 
£337. 
In 1993 Mr and Mrs B wrote to NBS saying they were concerned Mr B might  not have been  
eligible for the policy as he hadnt  been working  for very long when he took out the PPI. NBS 
agreed and refunded the premiums paid by Mr and Mrs B up to that point. 
NBS also said it would  consider a new application for PPI, and provided  an application form 
for Mr and Mrs B. They completed  that and sent it back in the post. A new policy  started and 
this ran until Mr and Mrs B closed their mortgage account in 1996.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.   
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Mr and Mrs B say the PPI was mis-sold  for a number of reasons. Firstly they say they had 
good employment benefits, savings  and wealthy relatives who could have  helped  pay the 
mortgage if Mr B couldnt work. Secondly, they say they were told  both times they bought  
PPI  that they must  have  it. 
These two reasons for people thinking they were mis-sold PPI arent  unusual,  and Ill 
consider Mr and Mrs Bs benefits  later. But firstly,  I want to explain my thinking  on how the 
PPI was sold.
Mr B has told us the person insisting he bought the PPI on both occasions was his adoptive 
mother  who worked  for NBS at the time. He says,  however, that there wont be any written 
evidence of this as one of her colleagues signed off his and Mrs Bs mortgage application.
That is an unusual set of circumstances, so Ive thought  carefully about whether NBS did 
enough to let Mr and Mrs B know the PPI was optional  both times  a policy was sold.
I dont know exactly what happened  during  the first sale, and its possible the policy  was mis-
sold. But NBS cancelled  this policy  and refunded all the premiums paid in the following  year.  
Ref: DRN29231922So, whether  the PPI was mis-sold  or not, Mr and Mrs B havent  suffered a financial loss, and 
theres no compensation due. Im not going to explore this sale any further.
NBS wrote to Mr and Mrs B confirming it would  cancel the old policy and refund premiums. It 
went on to say it would consider  a new application  for PPI. And it sent an application form 
with the letter, which Mr and Mrs B completed  and signed. That doesnt  suggest NBS was 
telling Mr and Mrs B they had to replace  the PPI policy. Nor is there any suggestion in the 
letter that their existing mortgage might  be cancelled if Mr and Mrs B didnt replace the PPI. 
Mr B says his mother told him his mortgage  might  be cancelled  if he didnt replace the PPI. 
That is unusual  Ive looked at many  PPI complaints and never seen anybody being told an 
existing mortgage  might be cancelled for such a reason. And although I accept Mr Bs 
mother worked for the society  at the time,  I havent seen any evidence that suggests she 
was advising him and Mrs B on behalf of NBS. 
I do understand she might have  been  helping informally. I think  thats supported  by the fact 
that Mr B told us there  wont be a record of his mothers involvement  as she didnt sign any 
forms on NBS behalf. Im afraid that informal advice from a member  of staff isnt something 
Id expect NBS to take responsibility for.
Overall Im not persuaded  NBS did much wrong, inasmuch as I see no evidence  that it led 
Mr B to believe  he and Mrs B had to have the PPI to keep their mortgage.
Ive also thought about whether the second policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B given  their 
circumstances. From the evidence Ive seen I dont think that NBS recommended  the policy  
to Mr and Mrs B, so the key question I need to consider is whether NBS gave Mr and Mrs B 
information that was clear,  fair and not misleading in order to put them  in a position where 
they could make an informed choice about  the insurance  they were  buying.
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs B are worse 
off as a result. That is, would they be in a less favourable position than the one they find 
themselves in now, had there been no problems  with the sale? I dont think Mr and Mrs B 
have been affected. I say that because:
-Mr B was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. 
-Mr B says he would  have received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to the occupational 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  the policy in place would mean Mr 
and Mrs B could use their work-related benefits  and savings to pay for other expenses. 
Mr B says he had wealthy relatives who could have  helped  out. As NBS wasnt 
recommending the PPI, it wasnt  obliged to take this into account.
-Mr B wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover  I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs 
B needed better information about the policys exclusions and limitations. 
-I dont know when  Mr and Mrs B were told the cost of the policy.  But it was relatively low 
cost, and I think Mr and Mrs B were aware they had to pay something for the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  or that the benefit  was insufficient to meet  
Ref: DRN29231923their mortgage repayments, nor have I seen that Mr and Mrs B queried the payment over 
the years.
Its possible that some of the information  the society gave  Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it should have been. But, on balance, I think  they chose to take out the 
policy and so appear to have  wanted  this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr B wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations and the policy  seems  to have been 
affordable, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs B would  have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided   overall,  I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2923192