K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs Ms complaint is that The Brampton Partnership (Estate Agents) Limited 
(trading as Mortgage Advice Bureau  (MAB)) gave unsuitable investment advice to invest in 
an unregulated  collective investment scheme  (UCIS).  They had earlier  complained about 
mortgage advice  given by MAB. 
MAB is an appointed  representative (AR) of Legal & General  Partnership  Services  Limited
background
In 2006 on the advice  of the AR Mr W and Mrs M re-mortgaged their property.  They 
increased the size of their existing interest  only mortgage by £73,000.  The  money raised 
was used to part fund the purchase of two as yet unbuilt properties in America.   The  property 
developer failed and the properties were  never  built.
The CMC first complained  that the re-mortgage  advice in 2006 was unsuitable.  The firm did 
not uphold this complaint.  It issued a final response  to the complaint on 23 July 2020 giving 
six months for Mr W and Mrs M to complain.  The CMC accepted what the firm said but 
made a second  complaint that the AR had given unsuitable advice about a UCIS.  The firm 
also did not uphold  this complaint.  It said there  was no evidence that any advice about  a 
UCIS had been  given.
The complaint was looked at by an investigator.  She considered  both the original mortgage 
advice and the advice allegedly given to make the UCIS investment.  Her  view was that the 
original mortgage  advice was suitable.   She  said there was no evidence  to show  that any 
advice had been given about the UCIS.  
The CMC did not agree.  It made  the following points:
It accepts that there is no evidence that the AR either gave  any advice about the UCIS or 
helped to arrange the purchase of it.  
With respect to the mortgage advice, it said the AR did not consider the risk of the 
repayment vehicle  (the UCIS).   The  AR had an obligation to assess the suitability of the 
repayment vehicle  but did not do so.  The repayment vehicle was a high risk investment and 
as such was unsuitable for Mr W and Mrs M who were not high risk investors but cautious to 
moderate risk investors.    
The firm had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
Mr W and Mrs M purchased two off plan properties in America.   These  have been  described 
by the CMC  as UCIS.  Whether a property development is considered to be a UCIS will 
depend on the circumstances of the individual case.  Reference has been made to Harlequin  
which was a property  development scheme at various locations in the Caribbean.  Whilst 
investors owned their individual properties, the resort on which  they were sited was 
Ref: DRN23147042managed as a whole and they did they have day to control.  For these  reasons  Harlequin 
schemes are classified as collective  investment  schemes (CIS).  It does not follow that all 
overseas off plan property  developments are CIS.  Nothing presented about the US property 
purchases suggests they were in fact CIS.
Did the AR give any advice on the property investment?
Mr W and Mrs M say they spoke to a mortgage  broker who was connected to the promoter 
of the property scheme they were thinking of investing in.  They were unsure about the 
advice they received so decided to get advice from an adviser unconnected  to the promoter 
of the scheme.   
Their version of events  is as follows:  
We had reservations  about the advice we had been  given  in the seminar, as it seemed  too 
good to check  this out elsewhere. Ourselves and {a friend} made arrangements  to see {the 
adviser} at The Mortgage Advice Bureau office, which  we attended separately on the same 
day, one interview  after the offer. In our meeting we explained the proposition  that had been 
outlined in the seminar, with regard to the overall plan to purchase  Off Plan Overseas 
Investment properties and raising funds from our residential home to fund the deposits. {The 
adviser} confirmed that this was a valid plan and the forecasted  profits from the overseas 
investment property was a method  of not only our addition (sic) lending but would also repay 
our existing with (sic) mortgage lending.
So Mr W and Mrs Ms version of events is that the advice given encompassed both the 
suitability of the mortgage and the repayment vehicle.  The advice  given was that the 
overseas property was a suitable repayment  vehicle for them.  
However, there is no documentary evidence that supports Mr W and Mrs Ms version of 
events.  There is however, documentary evidence from the time of the advice that 
contradicts their version  of events.
The detail of the advice that was given was set out in the suitability report provided  to Mr W 
and Mrs M dated 28 March 2006.   In respect of the two endowments held by Mr W and 
Mrs M it said: 
Note: I have not provided advice regarding the potential returns from these provisions or the 
level of guarantee  they may offer. If you are unsure, you should seek independent advice.
The report  went on to say:
You indicated  that you are not concerned about  having any form of guarantee that your 
mortgage is repaid  at the end of the mortgage  term. I have therefore recommended  a 
repayment method  of interest only, where  you will pay only the interest  charged  by the 
lender and none of the original amount  borrowed.
You have  advised  that the amount you originally borrowed will be repaid by a combination of 
existing endowment policies and rearranging the loan on a part repayment basis  when the 
discounted rate is reviewed in 2 years.
So the documentary  evidence from the time of the advice contradicts Mr W and Mrs Ms 
version of events. 
Ref: DRN23147043The disputed advice  was given in 2006  so some considerable time ago.  Recollections 
from such a long time ago need to be treated with caution.  In this case  I consider that the 
version of events recorded in the suitability  report, which was completed around the time the 
advice, is the more reliable.
Therefore my conclusion  is that Mr W and Mrs M were given no advice either about their 
endowment policies or the overseas property purchase.
The mortgage  advice
The standards under which the adviser was required to operate  when giving mortgage 
advice are set out in the Mortgage  Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (MCOB) that applied  
at the time
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage contract  was suitable if the following three tests 
were met:
The consumer could  afford to enter into the contract.
The contract was appropriate  for the needs  and circumstances  of the customer.
The contract was the most suitable of those that the firm had available  to it.
MCOB 4.7.8G  also says that a firm was generally entitled to rely on information  provided by 
a consumer unless  it had reason to doubt  it.  
Based on the information the firm obtained  about Mr W and Mrs M I am satisfied that the 
recommended mortgage  was suitable.   Mr W and Mrs M had a significant  monthly  income 
surplus after the increased interest payments and so the mortgage was affordable.   It was 
their intention to switch to a part repayment mortgage when the initial  discount  period ended 
with their existing endowment policies being  used as the repayment  vehicle for the interest 
only part.
In addition, as set out in MCOB 4.7.12G there was no requirement  on the firm to give 
investment advice.  There was also no obligation  to give any advice about the suitability of 
the overseas property  purchase as a repayment vehicle.  This question is in any event 
academic as the adviser was unaware  that this was Mr W and Mrs Ms intention.  
The CMC has referred  to another decision made by this service as well as the court  case  of 
Emptage v FSCS.  However, I am required to reach  a decision based on what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case.  Each case is determined  on the 
basis of its own individual  facts.    
So my conclusions are that the mortgage advice  given  by the AR was suitable  and that no 
advice about the overseas property investment was given.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Ref: DRN23147044Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314704