K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Whichdeal Ltd t/a Creditplus repossessed  his car which  hed 
purchased by way of a hire purchase  agreement.  To fix things he wants the outstanding 
amount owed written  off. Alternatively hed be willing to accept a 50% reduction on the total 
amount owed.
background
Mr W purchased  a car around  September 2016  by way of a hire purchase agreement. The 
agreement term was 60 months. As I understand Mr W fell behind with his monthly 
repayments and Creditplus issued a notice  of default on 4 April 2018. They then issued  a 
termination notice  on 13 April 2018.  
The car was eventually repossessed on 13 May 2018. Mr W is unhappy as hed recently 
inherited some money and says he was told by an agent at Creditplus that he had until 14 
May 2018 to get things sorted. Mr W says hed been planning to make a repayment on 14 
May 2018. 
Creditplus didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Whilst they felt the case couldve been handled 
better, they say the decision to repossess was taken out of the agents  hands and referred  to 
director level instead. Overall they think theyve handled the case fairly. 
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  She felt the actions  of Creditplus had been 
fair and so she didnt  uphold  the complaint. As Mr W remains unhappy with this outcome, the 
matter has now been passed to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr W missed his contractual repayments  for several  months.  I understand Creditplus had 
struggled to get in contact with him. Creditplus felt Mr W was unable to make the 
repayments and so issued him a notice of default.  Mr W spoke to an agent  at Creditplus on 
30 April 2018. He says he was given 2 weeks to see if he could get things back  on track. I 
note he was advised that the best thing to do would be to return  the car. 
It seems, despite this call, the car was repossessed on 13 May 2018. Mr W is 
understandably disappointed by this. It appears  the matter was escalated  out of the agents  
hands and a decision was made at director level about repossessing  the car. Id agree with 
Creditplus that repossessing the car seemed inevitable  at that stage. Despite  various 
requests Mr W hadnt brought his account  back up to date. And from what  I can tell 
Creditplus had previously struggled to make contact with Mr W at times.  
Ive reviewed the relevant documentation  in this case  and in particular the clauses  about  the 
repayment terms and details about  repossession of a vehicle. Overall I think the actions of 
Creditplus have been reasonable. Given the state of arrears  on this account, I think  they 
were entitled  to take the action they did and to demand that the outstanding debt is repaid. 
Despite knowing the severity of the matter, Mr W still hadnt made any payment by 13 May 
2018. I dont think,  given  the circumstances, that Creditplus was unreasonable  in terminating  
their agreement with Mr W and repossessing  the car. 
Ref: DRN28612582my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2861258