K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) unfairly voided his motor  
insurance policy and refused  to pay his claim.
Reference to CIS includes its agents.
background
Mr A had insurance policies underwritten by CIS over a number of years.  Mr A was the 
principal policy holder and his son was a named driver on the policies.
The car insured  on the policy was damaged in an accident. CIS looked into Mr As claim for 
that. In doing so it learned that Mr A wasn't the registered keeper of the car, his son was. It 
said that if Mr A had told it that he wasn't  the registered keeper it wouldnt  have  offered him 
the policy. So it refused to pay his claim,  refunded the premiums hed paid since he insured 
the car, and cancelled  his policy as if it hadn't existed (known as voidance).
Mr A didnt think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt think  
CIS had done  anything  wrong. Mr A didnt agree so his complaint's been  passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of points and I've considered  everything 
hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key outstanding 
issues.
Mr A rang CIS to change the car on his existing  policy. CIS asked him if he was the 
registered keeper  of the car. I think it asked a clear  question. Mr A answered that he was the 
cars registered keeper. But that wasn't  accurate as his son was the registered keeper. So I 
don't think  Mr A took reasonable care to answer  CIS clear question. And that means hes 
made whats known  in the insurance  industry as a qualifying misrepresentation.
That's significant because theres specific legislation, the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure 
and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out what  an insurer may do where a 
consumers made a misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that misrepresentation, an 
insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract, otherwise known as the policy, it may 
refuse any claim and void the policy.
CIS has explained that it doesn't  offer policies to individuals who arent the registered keeper 
of the car in question (with  the exception of where  the registered keeper  is the policyholders 
spouse). So, if Mr A had taken more care to answer CIS question  about whether or not he 
was the cars registered keeper, and told it that he wasn't, then CIS wouldnt have insured 
him. And in those  circumstances, in line with the remedies CIDRA offers, I think it was 
reasonable for CIS to void Mr As policy.
Mr As argued that he hadn't been the registered keeper of cars on previous policies hed 
had with CIS. And it had paid claims against those policies. So he thinks CIS is estopped 
Ref: DRN27769892from refusing to pay his claim  on this policy. As I understand it estoppel is a legal principle 
which prevents a party to a contract from taking a contradictory position  to an earlier  action 
or decision that the other party to the contract  has relied on. But I don't think that applies 
here.
First, I should  say that my role is to determine  complaints based on what  I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the particular complaint. So my decision isnt bound 
by legal principles  like estoppel although  I will consider  such principles when deciding whats 
a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Its worth  noting that I've seen  no evidence,  beyond Mr As comments, that CIS was aware 
that he wasn't previously  the keeper of any other cars it had insured. And I don't think  it told 
him that it would insure him if he wasn't the registered keeper of the car. So I don't think that 
CIS gave  Mr A information that hes relied upon  to his detriment. But in any event, Mr A was 
asked a clear question relating to the car he wished to insure. If hed answered that question 
accurately, CIS wouldnt have offered  to insure  it. So its reasonable that it voided the policy  
when it found  out that Mr A wasn't its registered  keeper.  And what  had happened on any 
previous policy  is irrelevant when considering whether CIS decision to void this policy  was 
reasonable. And as I've already said I'm satisfied that it was.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2776989