K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policies with two loans.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from February 2019,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not thinking  of upholding 
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  I invited both parties  to provide any further  submissions they may 
wish to make before  I reached a final decision.  Nationwide said it had no further  comments. 
Mrs C did contact us and I will address her further comments below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following my provisional decision, Mrs C rang our adjudicator  to say that it contained 
inconsistencies in relation  to her medical  conditions. She also stated that her GP had 
provided us with incorrect information because  the condition that had been described as 
gone by 1995  still causes her issues to this day.
As Mrs C was talking about  very specific points to do with her medical history, the 
adjudicator asked if Mrs C would put her comments in an email.  The adjudicator also told 
Mrs C that she could  provide an updated GP letter if she felt that the details of the original 
were incorrect. However, we have not had any further contact from Mrs C.
I consider that I am able to rely on the medical  information provided by Mrs Cs doctor. And 
as no further evidence has been provided, I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29479352COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Mr and Mrs C arranged a loan in 2003 and took out PPI at the same  time. In 2004 they re-financed 
that loan (so they took out another loan, paying off the original loan in the process) and again  bought 
PPI. The PPI on the first loan only covered  Mrs C, and the PPI on the second loan only covered Mr C.
Our adjudicator thought that the PPI on the 2003 loan had been mis-sold  and so had upheld that part 
of the complaint, although  she didnt  think that the 2004 policy  had been  mis-sold. Nationwide  
disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say that they were made to have  PPI with the first loan. They  say that when arranging 
the second loan, because they explained that Mrs C had good sick pay, they were  told to insure Mr C 
instead. But Im not sure that Mr and Mrs Cs have a clear recollection  of events, which is not 
surprising given how long ago the sales took place. I say this because although  Mr and Mrs C have 
given an account  of how the sales took place in branch,  Nationwide  has provided evidence that the 
loans and PPI were arranged over the phone.
 
Nationwide no longer has the call recordings, which is also not surprising. But we do have some of 
the paperwork from the sales. Looking  at the credit agreements from 2003 and 2004, I can see that 
the policies are described as optional  credit  insurance . They then detail the full costs of the policies. 
Mr and Mrs C have signed  the forms at the bottom.
From what we know of Nationwides sales process, there would have a discussion  about PPI and 
then the loan agreement was printed  out afterwards. If someone didnt want  PPI then there would be 
no mention of it on the loan agreement.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr and Mrs C have  said.  But on balance I think they would have 
known that the policies were  optional.  I havent  seen  anything to make me think  that the adviser 
deviated from the normal process  to pressure  the couple into taking out PPI. Overall  it seems to me 
that they probably decided to buy the policies,  knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer  
remember doing  so.
I dont think Nationwide advised  Mr and Mrs C to take out the policies. But it still had to give Mr and 
Mrs C enough information  for them  to be able to make an informed choice about whether or not the 
PPI was right for them.
The PPI sold with the 2003 loan only covered Mrs C. Mrs C says that she would have got six months 
full pay from her job if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for much longer than she would have received full pay for (the loan was taken out over a 
period of five years and if Mrs C had made a sickness claim it could potentially have paid out until the 
loan was cleared).
Mrs C has said that she had two medical conditions that would have been classed as pre-existing 
medical conditions (PEMCs) and therefore would have been excluded under the policy.
Ref: DRN29479353She was diagnosed with a back condition whilst  still at school. A letter from Mrs Cs GP says This 
hasnt been a clinical problem for her. Mrs C has described how the condition has affected her over 
the years and has explained that she would  have occasional time off work. The policy covered  
periods of sickness lasting longer than 30 days. Therefore, based on what Mrs C has told us about  
her back condition, it seems  unlikely she would have thought that shed ever need  to make  a claim on 
the policy  as a result  of her back.
Mrs C also mentioned another  health condition. But although shes said that this issue  was under 
investigation at the time she was sold the PPI in 2003,  her GPs letter  shows that it was investigated 
in July 1995 and that the problem had gone by October 1995.  So I would not consider this to be a 
PEMC that would be excluded  under  the policy.
On balance, I think  that Mrs C had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it.
The PPI with the 2004 loan provided cover  for Mr C only. Mr C says that his job would have provided 
him with some sick pay although he cant remember how much. But again, the policy would have paid 
out in addition  to any sick and potentially  for longer than Mr C would have received full pay for.
The couple have said that Mrs Cs salary on its own was enough to carry on making the repayments 
on the loan. But if Mr C had lost his job, Mrs Cs salary would have  needed to cover  all of the other 
household outgoings.  So having the monthly loan repayment of £352.51covered would have been 
useful at what  would have been a difficult time. So I also think Mr C had a need for the policy  and 
could have benefitted from it.
Mr and Mrs C were borrowing quite a lot of money, over periods of five and seven  years. So it 
wouldnt be surprising if they had an interest in protecting their loan repayments.
As Ive already mentioned,  the full cost of the policies was set out in the credit agreements. So I think 
Mr and Mrs C would have known what they were paying for the insurance.
The cancellation terms meant that Mr and Mrs C would have received  a proportionate refund, so they 
wouldnt have been disadvantaged if they had wanted to settle the loans and cancel the PPI early. So 
I dont think more information about the cancellation  terms would  have made  a difference.
Its possible that Nationwide could have provided clearer information about  the policies, especially  
about the things that they didnt cover. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Mr and Mrs C werent  
affected by any of these things. As I think that Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the PPI and decided to 
buy it, I dont  think more information would  have caused them  to change  their minds, which  means  
that Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI for the policy sold in 2004 because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Ms C about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell them, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the PPI policies werent  mis-sold   so Nationwide  Building Society 
does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
Ref: DRN29479354But, in relation  to the PPI sold in 2004, Nationwide  Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and 
Mrs C any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I 
understand it has already  done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2947935