K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Coutts  and Company  sold her property for less than it should  have. 
This left her with an outstanding balance that she needs to pay.
background
Ms B purchased her property in 1993  jointly with her ex-partner who spent a lot of time working 
abroad. He covered the mortgage payments and household running costs  of the property.
In 2008 Ms B received  some medical treatment which meant she was no longer able to work 
and relied on her ex-partner to continue to pay the mortgage.
Ms Bs ex-partner stopped supporting  her financially in 2011 but he continued  to pay the 
mortgage on the property. In 2013, Ms Bs ex-partner stopped paying the mortgage but Ms B 
was able to keep up with the payments from savings that she had.
In November 2014, Ms B was no longer able to keep  up with the mortgage  payments. She 
didnt want to sell the property due to a personal  liability guarantee that she owed to another 
company, which  would take up her share  of the equity.
With the support  of her business partner,  who is also representing  her on this case,  Ms B 
tried to raise  finance to keep up with the payments and she explored various options. 
Unfortunately, Ms B was unable to secure  any finance and Coutts rejected the proposals 
that she made.
In June 2017 Coutts started possession proceedings. There  was a court  hearing in August 
2017 where it was ruled that Coutts  would take possession  of the property in November 2017.
In December 2017, Coutts  informed  Ms B that they would  be applying for a court order to 
evict her from the property in January  2018. This eviction order was suspended and Ms B 
continued trying to obtain finance to come  to an agreement with Coutts, but this was 
unsuccessful.
The property was sold for less than Ms B thought it should be, based  on the valuations that 
she had obtained  on the property. And this left her with an outstanding balance  of around 
£53,000 to pay to Coutts. She complained to Coutts as she believed they reduced the 
property price too quickly and sold it at a loss.
Coutts sent their final response on the matter  and said that they had taken advice from four 
different valuers.  Coutts said the valuation  reports that she sent them,  were  noted by the 
valuer that a higher price  may be achieved but on a speculative basis.  
Ms B didnt agree so she brought  the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one 
of our investigators, who didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that 
Coutts had sold the property at a fair price.
Ms B wasnt happy with this. Her representative  said Ms B didnt dispute that Coutts went 
through the motions with regard to this matter.  But she doesnt  believe that Coutts applied  
sufficient diligence  or effort to realise proper market value for the property having rejected 
Ms Bs offer to settle in June 2018. 
Ref: DRN20052182Ms B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman so it has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, I agree with what  
the investigator has said so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Im sorry  to hear that Ms B has had a difficult time and I appreciate the circumstances 
surrounding this complaint have  been  difficult for her.
Ive thought very carefully about everything  that Ms B and Coutts have said. I appreciate that 
Ms B made a proposal in June 2018 to Coutts which they rejected. Ms B had a plot of land 
which had potential to be built on within  the existing grounds of the property. She said it 
would accommodate  an additional family  house for which she had planning approved. She 
said it would  attract an additional  value  in excess of £500,000. While this could have been a 
viable solution,  Ms B couldnt get the finances to pursue this. From what I can see, Coutts  
gave Ms B sufficient time to try and secure  funds but because  over time, she wasnt able to, 
Coutts proceeded to take the matter forward. And from what  Ms B has said I can see that 
she tried a few different  options but was still unsuccessful.
Her representative said that funds were underwritten and this would have been sufficient, but 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that this was the case. I wouldnt expect a lender to agree to 
such a proposal when there is no firm assurance that it would happen.  Without finances 
being obtained and the uncertainty around  it in terms  of finances and the time to enable a 
property to be built, I can understand  why Coutts rejected this proposal.
With regard to the sale of the property itself, I can see that Coutts  obtained four different 
valuations of the property and they put the property on the market at the higher end of the 
range as recommended by various agents.  We would expect a lender to get at least  two 
different valuations carried out when a property is in the process of being repossessed -and 
Coutts did this. One of those valuations should  be done by an independent party,  and I can 
see that this happened.  We would expect the valuations to be consistent before a lender 
relies on them  which they were. So based on the valuations I have seen, I cant  say Coutts 
listed the property  under market value.
The property was first listed for sale on 29 October  2018 for £1,400,000. The property price 
was reduced on 29 November 2018 to £1,300,000. A note was added  to the listing  stating 
that offers of £1,200,000 would be considered.
Ms B has provided us with valuations that she obtained on her own and the latest two which 
were obtained  in October 2017 and May 2018 showed an estimated value of £1,750,000. 
She has also provided trends in house  prices  to show how much the property should have 
been valued at. But there are many factors in the housing market which can affect how much 
a property is valued at. And the valuations  that were carried  out, were carried out a few 
months before the property was listed in October  2018.
I have seen details  regarding the interest  shown in the property  once it was listed and its 
evident that there was very little interest  in the property which is why Coutts decided to 
reduce the price and potentially consider any offers made for around  £1,200,000. The offers  
they did receive were  quite a bit lower than the asking price which is why Coutts had to 
consider what it would accept in order to get the best possible selling price  while  also 
Ref: DRN20052183achieving a sale in a reasonable timescale. We expect  a lender to consider  what  is best in 
this situation to prevent interest mounting up and potentially putting a borrower at a further 
disadvantage. The offer which they accepted seems reasonable and it didnt appear that any 
other offers were being made that were  more than what  was accepted.  I therefore  cant say 
that Coutts were  unfair or unreasonable in accepting the offer that they did for the property, 
when keeping all of these  factors  in mind.
Ms Bs representative said that Coutts would  have obtained a higher value for the property  
had Coutts have taken it to auction. Its up to Coutts  to decide the best way to sell the 
property and there is nothing to say that they had to take this to auction in order to make  this 
happen. Coutts had a debt which needed to be repaid to them and they took the necessary 
steps to get the property marketed in order for it to be sold.  And as Ive already explained, 
Im satisfied that the steps they took were  fair and reasonable.
I appreciate that Ms B now has a shortfall  of around £53,000 but for the reasons Ive already 
explained, I can understand  why Coutts  sold the property  for the price  that they did. Ive also 
seen comparable properties of a similar  size, location and value that were  sold around the 
same time. These were also sold for a similar amount, likely due to the condition  of the 
housing market at the time.
I know that Ms B will be disappointed with my decision but I suggest that she continues  to 
keep an open  dialogue with Coutts  to agree a way forward to repay  the outstanding balance  
on the mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005218