K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Q are unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited wont  pay their home  insurance 
claim for water damage to their home.
background
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs Q suffered a large  escape of water to their home. They  had been 
living there for three  nights a week since they bought the property  in 2011. For the rest of the 
week they stayed  in a flat above their business, some way away. They made a claim to 
Ageas, who appointed loss adjusters and an initial inspection  was carried out. Ageas was 
concerned about  the occupation  of the property and that at the time the leak was discovered 
Mr and Mrs Q had been away from it for ten days.  It carried out investigations  and decided  
that as it would have regarded the property as a weekend holiday home, it would put an 
endorsement on their policy retrospectively  requiring inter alia that the property be kept 
constantly heated to a minimum temperature of 10C.
Mr and Mrs Q advised  that they had kept the property heated at a constant  11C. But Ageas 
said the pipes  had likely frozen and after considering their bills for heating oil decided  that 
they (the bills) didnt  accord with what  they had said about occupation of their property and 
heating. Ageas advised Mr and Mrs Q in January 2019 that it would  be declining  the claim, 
as it considered Mr and Mrs Q to be in breach of the non-occupancy endorsement  it had 
retrospectively applied  to keep the home  at 10C.
On referral to this service  our investigator  asked  Ageas what questions Mr and Mrs Q were  
asked when the policy was taken out. It produced a copy of the questions asked by the 
mortgage broker. Our investigator thought  that the questions werent  clear  enough, and said 
that Ageas should pay the claim. Ageas had offered £500 for the upset caused by delays 
and its failures to keep  Mr and Mrs Q informed. Our investigator agreed that that was 
appropriate. 
Ageas didnt agree  it said that as Mr and Mrs Q clearly spent longer away from rather  than 
at the insured property, they clearly  shouldnt have declared it their main residence.
I issued a provisional decision. I agreed with the investigators view but I proposed a different 
award.
Mr and Mrs Q accepted  my provisional decision. They asked if I could consider whether  
Ageas should  reimburse their council tax on the property. They  had asked the local authority 
for an exemption but they couldnt  have it without a letter  from Ageas.
Ageas have not responded  so I assume  it has no further comment to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
Ref: DRN20722962delay/failure to keep  informed
The circumstances of this claim were clearly traumatic  for Mr and Mrs Q. The initial 
inspection revealed  very substantial damage  to most areas of the property  the ceilings had 
come down in places. Most of the contents there were affected. They clearly havent been  
able to live there. The loss adjusters clearly noted  the situation  regarding occupancy  early 
on. Mrs Q has shown  us her comprehensive  diary of events and from that I can see that they 
were not kept informed  and had to constantly ring or email to find out what  was happening.  
She tells us that the underwriters regarding  it as a holiday home wasnt  raised with them until 
20 June 2018  (the claim having been  made  in March 2018), and this was only after her 
enquiring what  the position was. She was then asked to produce utility bills.
After that, some six weeks later Ageas  rejected the claim as the bills showed  very low 
usage, but it hadnt seen  any heating oil bills. Mr and Mrs Q insist  that it should have been 
aware of this. They then showed Ageas the heating oil bills. After that Mr and Mrs Q spent 
some time in trying to find out the latest  position  from Ageas during which  they became very 
anxious about the matter. They were finally told by phone on 8 January 2019  and formally  by 
letter in early February that the claim was still declined for the same reasons.  
Ageas did agree to issue a payment of £500  for the inconvenience caused by the delays. 
I think it was unacceptable to take so long to decide on a quite straightforward issue and 
Mr and Mrs Q had to do all the chasing. But I do think  in the circumstances of this case that 
a payment of £500 was fair and reasonable compensation.   
declining the claim
Ageas has declined to pay the claim.  It says that because Mr and Mrs Q failed to disclose 
the nature  of their occupation  of the property, had it known it would have applied an 
unoccupied property endorsement. This included additional provisions amending  the main 
term in the policy concerning  escape  of water:
Under number 4, Escape of water from and frost damage to fixed  water tanks, heating 
installations, apparatus or pipes  we will not pay for loss or damage directly  caused by 
escape of water from or frost damage  to fixed water  tanks, apparatus or pipes between  1st 
November and 31st March (both days inclusive) unless:
(1)the Water Supply is switched  off at the mains and the entire water system and central 
heating system be drained  of all water; or
(2)where the entire home has the benefit  of a central  heating  system  it is set to operate  
continuously for 24 hours of each day and the thermostat  set at not less than 10 degrees 
Celsius/50 degrees Fahrenheit. 
Where fitted the loft hatch door is left open.
The damage occurred  in March so, Ageas can reasonably utilise the endorsement it would 
have applied. Mr and Mrs Q insist that they left the heating on at a constant temperature of 
11C, and that they kept the loft hatch  open.  
I note that the pipes  appeared to have frozen which could  have  meant the heating wasnt 
kept to the required temperature, though its often difficult  to protect  every  pipe in the 
property. If the main temperature was 11C it could  have  been considerably colder in the 
loft.
Ref: DRN20722963But whether  the condition  was complied with is only relevant if I decide Ageas can 
reasonably apply the clause to the policy  retrospectively. Essentially this goes back to the 
information Mr and Mrs Q gave it when  the policy started, in 2011. Under the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when taking out, or 
renewing, an insurance policy it is the duty of the consumer not to make a misrepresentation 
to the insurer, and to take reasonable care not to do so. If such  a misrepresentation is made,  
which is deemed to be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer would be entitled to amend 
the terms of the policy to reflect what it would  have done had the full information been given 
to it. CIDRA  wasnt in force when Mr and Mrs Q took out the policy in 2011 but it reflected 
our general  approach.   
In deciding whether  Mr and Mrs Q took reasonable care, I have to take into account how 
clear and specific the questions were.  Here the question asked about their home was:
Is the property 
Your main residence, ie not a holiday home  and not likely to be occupied* for more than 
30 days
To which the answer is given Yes.
*I think that all parties agree this should read unoccupied. I dont think  anything turns on it 
in this case but it doesnt help if the question is supposed to be clear and specific.
And on the statement of facts form which accompanies  renewal it states:
Is the property occupied by you and your immediate family only as your permanent  
residence To which the answer is also Yes.
Mr and Mrs Q have made it clear that they bought the house to live in  it is a large  detached 
house compared to the flat they have above their business. Its not unreasonable  in my view 
that they should have  regarded the house as their main/permanent  residence. I note Ageas 
view  that Mr and Mrs Q should have known that if they were living in one place more than 
the other they should have made this clear.  But that is in my view putting  an unfair burden on 
Mr and Mrs Q. The purpose of CIDRA  (and our approach) is that the consumer shouldnt  
have to second guess what the insurer wants to know. Ageas is entitled to decide  what 
terms to put on a policy. But if its going  to do so it must ask clear questions.
I think Mr and Mrs Q did act with reasonable care in answering the questions about their 
main residence. Certainly they didnt regard it as a holiday  home  which appeared to be the 
alternative. And there  was nothing in the application  detail to let them know this is how 
Ageas would view the property.  So, as they didnt in my view make any misrepresentation to, 
Ageas it was unfair of it to apply the unoccupied property clause. On that basis I think the 
claim should be reconsidered as I shall set out below. 
I should add that I understand that for the policy renewal it has added  the clause.  Now it 
knows the nature of the property its entitled  to do that, it just cant in my view do it here 
retrospectively.
award
So, I think Ageas should  pay the claim.  Bearing in mind that no formal assessment  of the 
damage has been carried out my proposed award  is a little different to the investigators  so 
this is a provisional decision.  I think  Ageas should consider a reasonable settlement for the 
claim. But I think at this stage it shouldnt be considering  a cash  settlement, unless 
Ref: DRN20722964Mr and Mrs Q really want one. So I wont be proposing at this stage that Ageas pay interest 
on a possible future  cash  settlement.  However, if Mr and Mrs Q have incurred costs in 
dealing with clearing  out contents  or work to mitigate the damage they should present those 
bills to Ageas and it will have to pay 8% simple  interest*  on them from the date 
Mr and Mrs Q incurred the cost until settlement is made.
I have noted that despite  in its claim notes suggesting that it should take steps to mitigate 
any loss Ageas didnt  in fact do so. So if any extra damage has occurred because of Ageas  
unfair decision not to pay the claim,  it should  also consider paying for those  even if outside  
the terms of the policy.
With regard to the council tax payment  I would  expect Ageas to consider that issue  when 
making a settlement. I cant make a finding  here that it should pay the tax as the matter 
would need to be investigated further  by Ageas.
As both parties have  no further comment to make, the above provisional  findings are now 
final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Consider a reasonable settlement  for the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy and my comments  above.
Consider also paying for any damage  to the building or contents  caused by 
deterioration due to the long delay in the claim being dealt with. Even if this concerns 
costs outside  the policy terms.
Consider any costs  Mr and Mrs Q may have incurred to mitigate the damage to their 
property (subject to their producing  evidence of the same).  It should also pay 8% 
simple interest* on any such  amounts from the date they were  paid to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Ageas Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  
Mr and Mrs Q request it, it should provide  them  with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so 
that, if appropriate, they can reclaim it.
Ref: DRN2072296