K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) turned down his overdraft 
extension application  without asking basic questions about his request. 
Mr C also complains that RBS hasnt given him a reasonable  explanation  for its decision. 
background
Mr C applied online to extend  his overdraft facility in October 2018  but was declined. He 
called RBS and discussed his request but after asking a few questions it didnt agree. Mr C 
says RBS didnt  ask basic questions like how much he wanted,  how long he wanted it for or 
when he would repay the money before making its decision.  
When Mr C asked for information to help him understand why RBS had taken  that decision 
he wasnt given any specific reasons. Mr C complained but RBS said it couldnt give him the 
reason his application was declined and didnt agree it had made an error.
Mr C referred  his complaint to our service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator 
said RBS was entitled to keep commercially sensitive information about  its lending criteria 
private and that Mr Cs application was declined fairly. Mr C didnt agree and asked to 
appeal his complaint so its been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise how frustrating this situation  must  be for Mr C and I understand why he wants  a 
better understanding of RBS lending decision  he has a good credit  score and receives a 
regular income. But I need to be fair to both sides and I havent found  any evidence  that 
RBS has made a mistake  or treated Mr C unfairly. Ill explain why. 
Mr C complains that RBS didnt ask him reasonable questions during  his application. He 
wasnt asked how much he wanted, why he wanted to increase his overdraft limit or when he 
would repay  the increase. But RBS looked  at Mr Cs credit file, it asked him some  qualifying 
questions about  his circumstances and it looked at how he handled his existing accounts. I 
appreciate that RBS may not have asked the questions  Mr C was expecting but that doesnt  
mean its failed to fairly consider  his application.  
Its up to RBS to decide what  questions it asks when considering additional  borrowing  and 
Im satisfied its decision to use the information  it obtained was reasonable. 
When a business  declines an application  for borrowing it should give the applicant  an 
indication why. In this case,  whilst I accept that the explanation is not specific, RBS has told 
Mr C what information its taken into account when considering his request. The adjudicator  
went back to RBS and it agreed they could tell Mr C that his application  was declined after it 
was assessed  using its internal credit scoring  system. RBS said Mr Cs account  history 
meant it wasnt willing to approve  any further  credit at the time. I understand Mr C wants a 
more detailed explanation but Im satisfied what RBS has told him is fair in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN23926002RBS didnt initially deal with Mr Cs complaint  and paid him £50 to apologise. Im pleased 
RBS acknowledged  the service it provided shouldve been  better  and paid Mr C a fair level 
of compensation.  As I havent found RBS made any mistakes when looking at Mr Cs 
overdraft application  and I think its paid a fair settlement for the service  it provided Im not 
telling it to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392600