K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint relates to Skipton  Building Society's actions when  he took out further  
borrowing on his mortgage.
background
Mr W took out a mortgage with Skipton  in 2014  with his ex-partner. Following his separation  
from his partner he wanted to put the existing mortgage into his sole name and take out 
further borrowing  on his mortgage. But he says that, against his wishes,  the existing 
mortgage was switched from interest only to repayment and the term of the mortgage was 
changed.
Skipton responded to his complaint. It said, in summary:
the process of changing a joint mortgage  to a sole one was similar to re-mortgaging, as 
it was necessary to complete a new application for the sole borrower. It therefore 
redeemed the joint mortgage  account  and set up a new mortgage account. In Mr Ws 
case he was also applying to increase  his borrowing, which was completed under a 
separate account  with a different interest  rate;
It agreed that the adviser hadn't explained to Mr W that in order to repay the additional 
borrowing over a term of 15 years it would also need to extend the primary mortgage to 
15 years. And it also agreed that the adviser hadn't  explained that the primary mortgage  
would need to be transferred to a full repayment basis  for Skipton to agree the new 
application;
Mr W had raised concerns but there was no record that these concerns had been 
answered by telephone,  email  or letter. However, the position  had been  set out in the 
mortgage offer issued prior to completion.
Skipton offered Mr W an appointment to speak to an adviser to see whether he could 
amalgamate the two accounts and switch both onto one new interest rate. And it also offered 
him £500 compensation for the inconvenience  it had caused, which  it subsequently raised to 
£700. But Mr W wasn't satisfied with Skipton's  response and brought his complaint to this 
service.
our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and that Skipton 
should do more  to put things right. He said, in summary:
Mr W had made it clear that he wanted  his existing  mortgage to remain as interest only, 
but Skipton hadn't acknowledged or responded to that request;
Upon completion there was no reason why Mr W couldn't remain  on interest  only on the 
primary mortgage;
Mr W still had an on track endowment policy to cover the balance  of the primary loan.
The investigator recommended  that Skipton should  switch the primary loan back to interest 
only, backdated to 28 April 2016,  refund any overpayments and pay 8% simple  interest  on 
the payments.  And he also felt that Skipton should pay Mr W the £700  compensation it had 
offered to reflect the error it had made.
After the investigator  had issued his view, Mr W redeemed  his mortgage. So our investigator 
issued a second view. He said that as Mr W had redeemed the mortgage he couldn't  now 
Ref: DRN27152202ask Skipton to refund  any of the difference in payments  Mr W had made.  As the mortgage 
had been redeemed Mr W would  have benefited  from paying  the mortgage  on a repayment 
basis. But he still felt that the £700  that Skipton had offered  to Mr W was a fair outcome to 
the complaint.
Mr W didn't agree with our investigator's  second view. He said that because the new loan 
was set up on a repayment basis, he was paying more every  month  in order to repay  an 
element of the principal. In addition, the new loan was set up with an interest rate in excess 
of the interest  rate he had been paying  previously  and also in excess of the rate on the 
additional secured borrowing.
Our investigator was persuaded to change his view. He felt that Mr W had lost out by paying  
a higher interest rate on the loan. And he recommended that Skipton should  work out the 
difference between  what  Mr W paid towards interest each month  on the repayment basis  
and the amount he would  have paid on interest only. This should be calculated on each  
payment from the change  to repayment to the redemption on the mortgage. On top of this he 
felt that Skipton should pay 8% simple  interest  on the refund for each overpayment.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 5 July 2019. I said,  in summary:
 Skipton had accepted that its adviser didn't make it clear  that the term of Mr Ws 
existing mortgage was being changed,  or that it was being changed to a repayment 
mortgage. But it said that, although its adviser  wasn't  clear,  the documentation  that 
Mr W received  was clear.
I'd looked at the mortgage offer letter  that Skipton sent to Mr W on 20 January  2016. 
I was satisfied that this set out that the mortgage was completing in two parts,  and 
that both parts were repayment. It also set out the interest rates  that applied to each 
part, and the fact that the duration of the loan was 15 years.
I could see that Mr W wrote to Skipton on 22 January 2016 to say that there were 
errors in the letter and illustration  sent to him, and asked for a revised offer letter and 
mortgage illustration.
It was not in dispute that Skipton didn't respond to the issues that Mr W raised. And 
Mr W had accepted  that, having raised  concerns about  the increased mortgage 
payment and change to repayment he didn't reiterate them further. He said that this 
was because he ran out of time and patience  as he was under  time pressure to 
complete the additional borrowing to enable the divorce proceedings to proceed and 
put an end to other costs he was temporarily incurring. And he said that he felt he 
had no real option but to proceed  on the terms Skipton had presented  to him, even 
though he viewed them as false and contrary to his wishes.
I sympathised with Mr W. And I'd carefully considered  what  he had to say on this 
issue. But, having done so, my provisional decision was that Mr W was aware  of the 
terms of the mortgage when  he decided  to accept  the offer and that, nevertheless, he 
chose to proceed with the mortgage.
I'd also considered what would have happened  if Skipton had responded to Mr Ws 
concerns. But, having  done so, my provisional  view was that I was not persuaded 
that this would have changed  the outcome of Mr Ws mortgage application. I said this 
as Skipton had explained that where  a mortgage is transferred from joint to sole 
names it is processed as a re-mortgage application. It had also explained that the 
term of the primary mortgage  was changed  as it couldn't  be shorter than the term of 
the additional borrowing. And it said that the reason it requested the mortgage on a 
Ref: DRN27152203repayment basis in 2016 was due to changes in its lending criteria and the overall 
risk assessment of Mr Ws sole application. I was minded to accept what Skipton had 
to say on these  issues.  And I was minded  to find that, as this was Skipton's  policy  at 
the time,  it would not have been  persuaded to offer Mr W the money  he wished to 
borrow on a different basis.
Skipton had accepted that it provided  Mr W with poor customer care. It had 
apologised that the terms and conditions  set out in the mortgage offer weren't 
adequately explained  to him at the time of application. And it had offered him £700 
compensation for the inconvenience he had been caused. My provisional view was 
that this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this case. So my provisional  
decision was that I wouldnt be asking Skipton to do anything further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr W nor Skipton  has provided any further  information in response to my provisional  
decision. So I havent been  persuaded to change my view. And I confirm it here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer Skipton Building Society has made to pay Mr W £700 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2715220