K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr C complain that Vehicle Credit Limited (VCL) hasnt provided Miss S with a 
spare key to her car.
background
Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement  with VCL. When  she 
purchased the car Miss S was given one set of keys. She says she was told by the 
salesman at the dealership that the other set of keys had to be retained by VCL until the 
finance was settled.
Miss S says she has been advised by her insurance company that she must be in 
possession of all sets of keys for the car otherwise she wouldnt be covered by her insurance 
in the event that the car was stolen.
Miss S has tried to speak to the supplying dealer about this but it has closed  down. VCL has 
said that it doesnt have the spare  keys.
Miss S wants VCL to meet the costs of changing the locks on the car, or alternatively to 
reduce the balance under her agreement by £1000.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence to suggest that 
VCL had the spare keys and that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask it to cover  the costs  of 
replacing the locks.
Miss S didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, as it is in this case,  I have 
to reach  a decision based on what is most likely to have happened, taking into account  all of 
the available  evidence and all of the circumstances of the case.
Miss S has said the salesman told her that VCL required  a set of keys. The dealership  has 
closed down so I havent been  able to obtain any evidence from them directly regarding what  
was said. Miss S hasnt  provided anything to support her testimony that the dealership 
retained a key and passed it to the finance  company.
Because I wasnt present when the discussions between Miss S and the dealer took place,  I 
cant be certain of exactly what was discussed. The best evidence of what was agreed 
between the parties  in circumstances such as these is to ascertain it from contemporaneous 
documents. However, in this case,  there  arent any documents which can be of assistance. 
VCL has said it didnt  retain a key. I cant think of any reasons why VCL would have retained 
a key  it isnt usual practice for a finance company to do this. Nor have I seen anything  to 
suggest that VCL are in possession of a key.
Ref: DRN24348322On balance, Im unable to safely conclude that a spare key was retained by VCL. So I wont 
be asking it to cover the costs of changing  the locks.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434832