K821x#15complaint
Ms M is unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance Limited handled her home insurance 
claim for water damage to her home.
background
In August  2018  Ms M made a claim to Ageas  after she returned home following a weekend  
away to find her home severely damaged by (what turned out to be ) a burst hot water pipe 
in her bathroom. She was offered immediate emergency accommodation in a hotel but her 
dog would have  had to go into kennels. She opted to stay at home but then told Ageas she 
had found a place to stay with a friend at £100 per week. Ageas agreed to cover that cost.
Ms M was keen to get the repairs under  way but she tells us that the claim dragged on and 
she had to contact  the claims  handler  at Ageas a number of times. Strip out and drying were 
done, and the repairs were carried  out. When Ms M returned to her property in December 
2018 she found that the work had been done very poorly. She called the contractors 
representative and had a meeting at the property where she went  through  the problems 
room by room. She felt her concerns werent  listened to. 
After Christmas she contacted Ageas to advise it that she didnt want the contractors 
returning. Then in early  January she had another leak from under the bath for which an 
emergency plumber  had to be sent out. He advised her this was due to faulty fitting by the 
contractors. Ageas agreed for new contractors to be appointed to complete the work. But 
this caused a further delay for them to become  available.
Ms M moved back in on 11 March 2019. She had further issues with the property  the 
wardrobe doors came off their runner  and fell on her foot; the drains became blocked and in 
unblocking them raw sewage was sprayed  all over the garden;  several snagging issues 
remained outstanding  at the time of her complaint  to us. 
In the course  of the work  Ms M had to wait at home  on five occasions  for contractors who 
failed to turn up  she advises us she had to take unpaid leave. She further tells us that she 
had to take two months off work for stress and stress related migraines. She feels Ageas is 
responsible for this and would like to claim loss of earnings.
Regrettably Ageas failed  to give Ms M a final response to her complaints.  When  she 
contacted this service  it put forward an offer of £250  for distress  and inconvenience.
Our investigator thought that Ageas should increase the offer to £450, which it agreed with. 
He further said it should  arrange to complete any outstanding repairs.  Ms M didnt agree, 
pointing out that she had lost earnings and that her health issues hadnt been taken into 
account.
I made  a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought the appropriate  award of 
compensation should be £600. I further  said that Ageas should compensate Ms M for the 
five missed appointments when she lost earnings..
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN20506942my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
My provisional findings were as follows:
There  are several issues  which concern Ms M over the way her complaint was handled 
which I've assessed  in order  to reach  an appropriate  figure  for compensation.
delay/failure to communicate
The matter  clearly took some time to reach completion. Ms M says that in the early stages of 
the claim,  weeks passed before she could  get any response out of Ageas or its contractors. 
It certainly appears that, but for the poor work, the matter would have taken around four 
months to conclude, which I think for a severe  claim for water damage is reasonable. But it 
took three further  months,  and Ms M was out of her home for all that time.
From Ageas'  notes its very difficult to say whether there were  clear  failures of 
communication  certainly there appear  to be gaps  in the early  stages when  no work was 
carried out. So its reasonable to assume that Ms M was doing a fair bit of chasing. Although 
as Ive said, the overall timeline, but for the poor work, was reasonable.
poor workmanship
With regard to the issues Ms M found  when she came back to the property in December, 
and continued  to find, whilst some were snagging,  a lot were just poor quality  work  and had 
to be redone.  The main  issues  were:
extremely poor application of silicone around  the toilet and bathroom. 
flooring was lifting and cracking.  
hallway had the wrong size skirting boards and they were very badly applied.
living room doorway casing had a gap of 2inches  with the flooring not joined up properly. 
living room floor not screened prior to the flooring being laid, not covered and has been 
scratched and dinted. 
wrong size skirting boards fitted again,  badly. 
ceiling  coving was the wrong  size and fitted  to the original coving.  
coving also not put on flush to the ceiling and wall, this gave the appearance of it being  
wonky. 
plaster work not married to the old plaster  work, this then left gaps and cracks which 
were quite  large throughout the living room and kitchen.
door casing for the kitchen doorway was again poorly fitted.
in the kitchen two shelves  were  put up in place of wall cupboards.
kitchen tap very loose,  with poorly fitted  kitchen sink, not sealed with silicone. 
old skirting  boards installed in the kitchen from the living  room  that had been  condemned  
from sitting in hot water from the burst pipe.
the kitchen  skirting boards were also badly applied and old skirting boards not removed. 
electrics had been left, sockets  unscrewed from the walls. 
outside a huge pile of rubbish had been left. 
building waste had been disposed of down the drains causing problems with the 
drainage.
Ref: DRN20506943central heating pipe had been screwed into and could have caused a serious  problem
When these issues were  put to the contractors they denied responsibility and pointed  out 
that theyd themselves paid for some  minor  issues.  They  said the drains  werent blocked by 
their work but by fat.
After the new contractors started there  were  the following issues:
a further leak developed  under the bath which required the attendance of the emergency 
plumber
when Ms M opened the wardrobe doors  they fell off their runner  hitting her foot and 
nearly causing her serious injury.
the extractor fan fell off  the  wall.
the hob ignition  was wired to a plug, against  regulations.
when the drains  were  jetted to unblock them, raw sewage was sprayed all over the 
garden and the drainage contractor denied any responsibility for cleaning it up (which 
had to be done at a later date).
the work  hasnt been signed  off.
Most of these issues are backed up by photos  and the work does appear  to be very sub-
standard. I can well understand Ms Ms upset and distress. As Ive said I think  this put back 
the completion of the work  by three  months. Whilst she was fortunately  not seriously injured 
by the wardrobe  door it was nevertheless  a serious matter to leave it so unsafe. I've also 
taken these issues into account in the compensation award.
alternative accommodation
Ms M feels she was given no help with alternative accommodation. She says she was told 
only a hotel was available  and her dog would have had to be put in kennels  which  she didnt 
want. I can understand this, but accommodation at short notice for an owner  and dog is likely 
to be hard to come by. Ms M did notify  Ageas that she was moving in with a friend after two 
weeks and that she was being  charged  rent of £100  per week.  Ageas readily  agreed  to pay 
that.
Whilst once it was established how long the work  would take Ageas could have started to 
look for short let accommodation,  this would  still have  been limited as a lot of landlords dont 
accept pets. It would appear  that once Ms M had found somewhere to stay she didnt advise 
that she was unhappy  so I cant see that Ageas did anything  wrong  here.
Ms M advises that she wanted somewhere at Christmas as her friend didnt want  her there  
but her emails were  ignored. I dont know whether that was the case  but there  would have 
been a similar problem  with finding short term accommodation that would accept pets.
missed appointments
Ms M says that on five occasions, in November and December 2018 and February 2019, 
she waited for contractors to turn up at her property and that they failed to do so and gave 
no explanation.  She advised that she had to take unpaid time off work on each  occasion.  
Whilst in the course  of a claim like this the consumer  will unfortunately have to take time off 
to meet  with contractors  etc, there was no need  to put her to unnecessary inconvenience. I 
think for the five days of missed appointments she should be paid for having  to miss work. I 
think from her payslip  that this works out a figure  of £54 a day  a total of £270. Ageas 
Ref: DRN20506944should add interest  at 8% simple per year from the dates each appointment was missed  for 
each respective daily payment.
health issues
Ms M says that because  of all the stress caused by Ageas she had to take sick leave and 
that this cost her £2,000 in lost earnings.  I have looked at the evidence for this  Ms M has 
shown us sick notes  referring to migraine  and stress at home. She hasnt shown us any 
other medical evidence.
I can well believe  that the stress of this claim may have caused Ms M health issues, both 
physical and mental. The difficulty is linking those issues to the stress caused by the poor 
handling of the claim  compared to the stress  that such  a claim would inevitably cause. Since 
I havent seen  medical  evidence  that the poor handling directly  caused Ms M's health issues 
I dont propose to award her loss of earnings.  Though I will take it into account in the overall 
award.
compensation
Ageas has offered £250 which our investigator increased to £450, for distress and 
inconvenience. I think taking into account  the issues I have set out in this decision that that 
should be increased to £600.  
outstanding work
I would have thought that by now any outstanding work would have been completed. No 
doubt in response  to this provisional decision, Ms M can tell me if thats the case. If not then 
Ageas should  take any action necessary to get the work completed and signed off.
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  I have  no further comment  to make.  My 
provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my provisional decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
pay to Ms M £600 compensation.
pay Ms M £270 compensation for loss earnings with simple interest* at 8% on the daily 
rate of £54 from the date each appointment was missed until repayment.
complete any snagging  work and advise Ms M when the works are signed off.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*Ageas Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  
Ms M request it, Ageas should  provide her with a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if 
appropriate, she can reclaim it
Ref: DRN2050694