K820x#14complaint
Miss J and Mr C complain  that Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  unfairly and unreasonably 
want to charge them extra interest for their residential mortgage  as they have rented out part 
of their property. They  want the extra interest  not to be charged.
background
Miss J and Mr C took out a residential  mortgage  in 2014. They said that they told YBS staff 
when applying for the mortgage that the long term plan was to renovate the property and 
rent out an annex. In 2018,  Miss J and Mr C told YBS that they were ready to rent out the 
annex and it said that it would charge extra interest  as a result. 
Miss J and Mr C complained that they hadnt  been told this would happen when they took 
out the mortgage. YBS said that a booklet sent to Miss J and Mr C said that the interest  rate 
might increase if the property was rented out, and this was agreed by Miss J and Mr C when 
they accepted the mortgage  offer. Miss J and Mr C felt that it was unfair  to expect them  to 
find such important information in a booklet and the term was vague as they were only 
renting out part of their property.
YBS offered  £175 compensation for trouble and upset and agreed not to charge the extra  
interest for 12 months  as it said that it couldve discussed the issue  in more detail during the 
application stage.  Miss J and Mr C felt that they shouldnt be charged the extra  interest at all 
and complained to us.
The adjudicators view was that there was no evidence in the notes  made in 2014  that 
Miss J and Mr C told YBS that they intended  to rent out part of the property in the future, but 
rather the notes  said that they intended to incorporate the annex  into the main property. He 
noted that there was also nothing in the financial section that mentioned  the receipt of any 
future rent, which if the discussion had happened, the adjudicator  would expect to see. He 
said YBS could charge extra interest  if it wanted,  even for renting out part of a property. The 
adjudicator said that YBS  offer was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
Miss J and Mr C disagreed. They said that they did discuss their plan to rent out part of the 
property with YBS in 2014, but they didnt discuss future rental income  as it wasnt needed to 
pay the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt present at the meeting with YBS and Miss J and Mr C in 2014.  This means  I have to 
work out whats more  likely than not to have happened based on the evidence available to 
me, including  consideration of what Miss J and Mr C have to say and the notes made by 
YBS at the time. I place  more weight on YBS notes made at the time as they were written  
before the complaint, and those notes clearly say that Miss J and Mr C planned to 
incorporate the annex into the main property. Theres  nothing  about renting out the annex.
Ref: DRN26375112And its relevant  to point out that the mortgage  taken out was a residential mortgage. It 
doesnt permit  renting  out the property, or part of it, without YBS consent  this is set out 
clearly in the mortgage offer. So if Miss J and Mr C planned to rent out part of the property, 
they shouldve  noticed that this wasnt permitted. And the booklet  (which they accept was 
sent to them  before the mortgage  was taken out) makes it clear that consent to let is only 
given when the consumers position  has changed and may lead to extra interest being 
charged.
Finally, if there was a firm plan to rent out part of the property,  its standard practice to 
include such  potential income  in the fact find process. This didnt  happen in this case.
On basis of the evidence available to me, I cant find that its more likely  than not that 
Miss J and Mr C told YBS about  their plan to rent out the property in the future in 2014.  And 
in any event, Miss J and Mr C chose to proceed, despite the mortgage offer saying  that the 
property (or part of it) couldnt be rented out without consent, and took out a residential 
mortgage. Also, YBS as part of the consent  process  is able to ask for extra interest  in order  
to agree to the change.  It didnt have to agree as this is a residential  mortgage.
This means  I dont  uphold  the complaint and think YBS offer is more  than fair and 
reasonable as I havent found YBS to be at fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Miss J and Mr C 
whether to accept  the offer made  by Yorkshire  Building Society.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss J and Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before  26 March 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2637511