K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he was mis-sold two endowment  plans by Forester  Life Limited.  
He says hes suffered  a shortfall on the maturity value of the policies. 
background
Forester hasnt upheld  the complaint. In summary, it says:
Although Mr Ps plans  provided  a combined death benefit  (and target amount) of 
£50,000 there was no guarantee  that this would be achieved. 
Whilst Mr P mightve received an Illustration quoting  a possible maturity value in 
excess of the £50,000,  the figures will have been an estimate based on an assumed 
rate of investment return. 
Theres no evidence that the plans were  guaranteed to provide £50,000. None of the 
policy documentation, or the application  forms signed by Mr P in 1988  suggest this.  
Since 2004, Mr P was sent letters saying that there was a high risk that his plans 
wont reach the intended target and thered be a shortfall upon maturity.  He was also 
sent a document with up to date projections. 
On the face of the evidence its unable to agree that Mr P wasnt made aware of the 
associated risks of Low Cost Endowment plans.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
With any type of investment, regardless of it being high risk or low risk, theres 
always a potential that it might not reach  its projected value.
Although Mr P mightve been  given a positive picture of the performance,  hes seen 
nothing to suggest that Mr P was given any guarantees  as to the value upon 
maturity. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest any discussions that took place about performance was 
binding upon  the business.    
Historically  endowments have performed well so there was no reason at the time to 
think that they wouldnt continue to do the same. So hes unable to agree  that 
Forester misrepresented how the plans would  perform.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. Hes 
not provided any further evidence for my consideration. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the plans were mis-sold  
because they didnt reach their projected  maturity  values.   
Ref: DRN27520902But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr P and Forester,  and reach what I think  is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
On balance, I agree with the investigator that there were no guarantees given about  the 
value of the plans upon maturity. 
I appreciate that Mr P was given documentation  with a projected  maturity value, but it was 
only a projection  based  on an assumed rate of investment return, and his was most likely 
based upon how the plans have performed historically. Whilst no guarantee was given that 
they would  perform in exactly the same way in the future, Ive seen nothing to suggest  that 
the business was wrong  to do this. Its generally  how businesses in these circumstances 
make future projections and isnt unique to Forester.
This doesnt mean the plans were  misrepresented or that Mr P was misled as to what  he 
might receive at maturity.  And just because  the plans didnt reach  the projected maturity  
values doesnt  mean  that they were  mis-sold.
Im mindful that documentation from 1988  completed by the selling  agent   confirms that 
Mr P and his wife had a £50,000 mortgage.  Although in response to a questionnaire Mr P 
now says the mortgage  was for £60,000 but hasnt provided any further  evidence  to this 
affect.  Mr P also suggests  that he had to sell the family home when  the plans matured in 
2018 but records suggest that he moved  house in 2015 and is still there.   
Despite the above, Im satisfied that from 2004,  Mr P wouldve been  given an up to date set 
of projections along with warnings that there was a high risk his plans were  unlikely to reach 
the projected maturity  values.
I appreciate that Mr P says he didnt receive  any of the letters until 2016.  I acknowledge  that 
letters can go missing in the post, but Im not persuaded that he didnt receive a single letter 
between 2004  and 2016. Im aware  that he changed  his home  address  but that was in 2015.
But even if it was the case that Mr P didnt receive any of the letters  referred to by Forester  
until 2016, I dont  think I can blame  Forester for this. It was only obliged  to send the letters  to 
Mr P ensuring that it was correctly addressed containing the relevant information. Forester 
isnt responsible for the possible failings of a third-party postal service.  
Ref: DRN27520903I appreciate Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask Forester to do anything.   
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr P 
what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2752090