K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Santander UK Plc allowed a direct  debit  to be paid on a current  
account he holds  jointly with his wife after hed asked it to freeze the account.  Hes also 
complained that Santander didnt make a reasonable  adjustment  to take account  of his 
disability.
background
Mr S has a number of accounts with Santander  including a current account he holds jointly 
with his wife. Early in 2019 he telephoned Santander to say he and his wife were going 
through a separation and he was concerned  about the position on the joint account. 
Santander agreed to stop all direct debits on the account and cancel the cards  and 
chequebooks.
In February 2019  Mr S complained that an amount had been withdrawn from the account by 
direct debit. He also said that Santander hadnt  made a reasonable adjustment for his 
disability. He wanted Santander  to send communications to him by emails that werent 
encrypted so he didnt  have to get a password to access  them.
Santander accepted it shouldnt have  allowed  the withdrawal to be made. It re-credited the 
amount withdrawn and waived any associated overdraft  fees.  It also paid Mr S £70 to 
compensate him for any inconvenience hed suffered. It didnt agree to send Mr S 
unencrypted emails  because it thought  that would be a security risk. But it had agreed  a 
memorable word to make  the call to give Mr S the password quicker.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Santanders response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Santander 
had acted reasonably with regard  to Mr Ss request for it to make  adjustments  and had 
resolved the issue  regarding  the direct debit  fairly  and reasonably.
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted it shouldnt have  allowed  the withdrawal to be made  and on that 
occasion its service fell below the standard Mr S was entitled  to expect. I now need  to 
consider if it has resolved  the error in a fair and reasonable  manner.
Santander has re-credited the amount withdrawn by the direct debit and waived any fees.  So 
Mr S hasnt suffered  financially as a result of Santanders error. Im not persuaded that he 
incurred substantial trouble and upset  as a result  of the error  as it was resolved very quickly. 
In all the circumstances I think  £70 is a fair and reasonable amount for Mr S to receive by 
way of compensation and I wont be asking Santander to pay any more.
Ref: DRN23819002Ive considered Mr Ss comments  about  Santanders  failure to make  a reasonable 
adjustment. Hes been unable  to describe his disability to this service so its very difficult for 
me to assess whether  Santander has made a reasonable  adjustment to take account of it. 
But its clear Mr S was able to access Santanders  response to his complaint and was able 
to deal with it. In those  circumstances I cant  reasonably say that Santander should have 
done anything  else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2381900