K820x#14complaint
Mr T says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him payment protection insurance (PPI) with his credit card 
in 1997.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
 No recording of the call in which Mr T says he was sold PPIs available,  which  is 
understandable given  the time thats  passed.  But in the absence  of enough evidence to 
suggest otherwise,  I see no reason to believe HSBC didnt make Mr T aware he had a choice 
about buying the PPI or that he didnt choose  to take it before it was added. I can understand 
if he remembers things differently, after all this time.
 From  experience, I think it unlikely HSBC  recommended the PPI to Mr T. So it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for him. But HSBC should have given him the information he 
needed to decide  for himself if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think he probably chose to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover. And I can see why as, despite  having  around  £5,000 in savings, he had no other  
means of maintaining  his repayments  whereas the PPI benefits  were considerable and would 
have paid out for a significant  time. Theyd have allowed him to retain  his savings or use 
them to help cover  his other living  costs for a time if he wasnt  working. I also think  its likely 
Mr T realised  there was a cost for the cover and that disclosure of the actual cost wouldnt 
have put him off buying the PPI.
 Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, he wasnt significantly affected  
by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. For example, although he was self-
employed I note the policy  terms didnt make it more difficult for him to claim unemployment 
benefits than if he was employed. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Ts lost out because of how HSBC sold him the 
PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN20509202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject 
my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2050920