K820x#14complaint
The representatives of Mrs S estate are unhappy  that a claim for damage to carpets 
following an escape  of water has been  declined  by ERGO Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft.
Mrs S estate  is represented by two executors  - Mr S1 and Mr S2. The claim and complaint 
have been dealt with by Mr S2.
background
In November 2017 a buildings insurance  policy was taken out with ERGO  to protect an 
unoccupied property belonging to Mrs S. Contents  cover was not arranged. Subsequently,  
Mrs S died and the property was cleared of furniture and remaining possessions. The fitted 
carpets were, however, left in place.
Several months later there was an escape of water at the property  and a claim was made for 
the damage to the fitted carpets. ERGO didnt accept the claim. This was because the 
carpets werent considered to be permanently fitted flooring and so not part of the building. 
As the policy was a buildings  only policy, there  was no cover  available  for the carpets.
Mr S1 and Mr S2 were not happy  with that outcome  and so the complaint was referred to 
this service. One of our investigators  considered the complaint, but didnt  recommend that it 
be upheld. He considered that the policy definitions made it clear that carpets were 
considered to be contents rather than buildings. 
Mr S2 referred back to an explanation he had been given when a member  of staff at ERGO 
had been trying to provide clarification of how it was determined whether  items were 
buildings or contents.  He considered that this caused sufficient ambiguity to mean  that the 
claim should be paid.  
He said that had it been clear that carpets  werent covered at the time the policy was 
purchased, they wouldnt  have done  so. Our investigator confirmed that if Mr S2 had 
concerns about  the sale of the policy, he should direct them to the business that sold the 
policy, which was not ERGO.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me for consideration.
Policy definitions
Contents includes:

carpets, but not permanently fitted  flooring
Buildings:
The main  structure  of the property and:
fixtures and fittings attached to the property including permanently  fitted  flooring
Buildings does  not include:
Ref: DRN21888742
carpets
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the definitions contained  in the policy for buildings  and contents. I think  
that it is entirely clear  from these  definitions that carpets  are considered  to be contents.  Its 
standard across  the home insurance  industry that carpets fitted  as Mrs S were  would be 
considered as contents. As such, the carpets  would never have been covered by the policy  
that was arranged for Mrs S property in November  2017. 
Mr S2 has said he considers that the policy should include a definition  of permanently  fitted  
flooring. It is possible that this might help some consumers. However,  I dont think  that it 
would have had any effect on the situation  in this case. The flooring  in question was carpet  
and the policy definitions of buildings and contents  make it very clear that carpets are 
contents. Whilst it might be possible that in some situations carpet could  be installed such  
that it would  be considered buildings, it would be a very unusual  situation. An insurance  
policy cant provide  definitions for every possible scenario  it will cover  common situations. 
The confusion appears to have come in to play after the claim was made  and declined.  In an 
attempt to be helpful to Mr S2, a member of staff at ERGO tried explaining how, in general, it 
was decided whether an item was buildings or contents. Mr S2 has latched  on to this 
explanation to attempt to confuse the situation with the claim. However, I dont consider it 
has any effect on the policy terms and conditions or the merits of whether the claim is a valid 
one. The terms and conditions of the policy are entirely clear  and are not in any way 
ambiguous  it is those  terms that matter when determining the outcome of the claim. 
Mr S2 has said that he wouldnt have taken out the policy if he had known that the carpets 
wouldnt be covered.  As our investigator  has said, given that he received advice from an 
independent broker  when purchasing the policy, he should refer any concerns he had about 
the sale to the broker. 
In summary,  I am satisfied that ERGO didnt act unreasonably when declining  the claim for 
carpets under the buildings insurance policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S1 and Mr S2 to accept or reject  my decision 
before 4 March  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2188874