K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out on a hire 
purchase agreement  for a car in 2010. Mrs F says Toyota  Financial Services  (UK) Plc mis-
sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs F says that the policy was sold to her during a meeting at the car dealership. She says 
that she was led to believe during the meeting that the application for her credit  would  be 
rejected if she did not take the insurance.  But Toyota says that it was sold through the post 
after her credit had been accepted. It says they sent these mailshot  applications to 
customers that didnt  opt to take PPI at the dealership. Where I have conflicting  information  I 
have to decide what I think it is more likely to have happened considering  what both Mrs F 
and Toyota have said, but also any documentation provided to me from the time. 
Ive got a copy of Mrs Fs signed credit agreement. From this it doesnt look like PPI was 
applied for at the time  the section to be completed accepting PPI has been  left blank. Ive 
also got a copy  of Payment Protector Acceptance Form which was sent to Mrs F after she 
took out the credit as well as the completed  direct  debit  mandate she signed and sent back 
to Toyota. 
So although  Ive thought  carefully about  what Mrs F has said and dont doubt they are her 
honest recollections, I have to take into account the sale took place a number of years ago - 
so its difficult for me to place a lot of weight on this, as memories can and do fade. And 
especially in this case when the documentation  from the time doesnt support  what  she has 
said. 
So I think its more likely  that the sale took place  through  the post after her credit had been 
approved. 
Because of this I think its unlikely she would have thought that she had to have the PPI to 
get the credit as she already had the credit  in place. The Acceptance  Form describes the 
PPI as optional  and there was also a separate direct debit form for Mrs F to complete to 
accept the PPI. If she didnt want the PPI she didnt have to complete the direct  debit 
mandate and return it. So I think its likely she chose to take out the PPI at the time knowing 
she didnt have to. 
I dont think Toyota recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide  if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Toyota  gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing  her own employee benefits and 
Ref: DRN22195392savings - and it looks like she still wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for her if something  went  wrong, 
paying out on top of anything she would have received  from her employer and for longer 
than she wouldve got her full rate of pay. Ive also thought about the savings she says she 
had. But I have to consider she didnt  want to use this money to reduce the amount she 
borrowed for her car. So it seems  to me she wanted to keep these savings intact and having 
the PPI policy  would have further protected them. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
So overall, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
I note what Mrs F has said most recently  about thinking the Hire Purchase Charge on her 
credit agreement was the PPI. But I cant see why she would have  thought that what  looks  
like the interest charged for the credit was actually PPI, especially as she didnt opt to 
purchase the PPI further down on the form. And even if she had thought that it was a charge 
for PPI, that doesnt explain why she completed  the form and separate direct debit mandate  
sent in the post (after signing the credit agreement)  which sets out a different cost to the 
Hire Purchase Charge for the PPI. So this doesnt  change my decision.
Which means Toyota doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Toyota will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
Toyota got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about  that. Because Toyota didnt  tell Mrs F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Toyota has basically offered to pay back the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Toyota has to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Toyota should  also pay back to Mrs F any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
Toyota should pay back to Mrs F the extra she paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Toyota should also pay Mrs F 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs F can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Toyota  Financial Services  (UK) Plc does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc does have to pay back  to Mrs F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Ref: DRN22195393Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2219539