K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about charges applied  to her investment account by Santander  UK Plc 
(Santander).
background
Ms M took out two unit trust investments in 2008, an ISA and Direct Shares. By letter  dated  
24 August 2017,  Ms M was advised that Santander  would  be moving the investments  to a 
new Investment Hub online platform. The letter advised that migration would take place  on 
2 October 2017 and no response was required if investors agreed to the changes.
Ms M notified Santander that she was moving abroad and whilst she claimed  she did so in 
the summer  of 2017, the evidence shows that she notified Santander at the beginning of 
November 2017,  as shown in a secure message provided by Ms M. This information  was 
provided a month after the investments had migrated to the new platform.
Ms M complains about the new platform charges and fees. She says that Santander have 
taken unauthorised deductions, that banking in the UK should be free and that these 
changes break the contract she entered into from 2008. She raised concern at being unable  
to open a new account in the UK.
Santander say that Ms M was given reasonable notice  about the new platform and charges. 
She was presented with options,  which included moving to a new provider, closing her 
investments without penalty or cashing  them in. As Ms M didnt raise  any objection  to the 
changes, the investments moved to the new platform  under new terms and conditions. All 
correspondence was sent to Ms Ms UK address at a time before she moved. Santander 
have provided  a copy of the letter sent to Ms M at the time,  which  explained about the 
platform and fees changes. Santander  say that the new platform enabled ISA managers to 
manage the funds  and investors could also manage their funds online.  The service fees 
were calculated by a percentage of the overall  investment.  Ms M was charged  £33.19  in 
November 2018  and subsequently encashed her unit trust holdings on 27 February 2019 for 
£20,683.37. Santander say that Ms M wasnt able to take out a new product as it was an 
eligibility requirement that customers should  be resident in the UK.
Ref: DRN25657762Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. She thought 
Santander hadnt done anything wrong.  They had made a business decision to move to a 
new platform and change  the charging  scheme. Ms M had been  sent information  about the 
platform moving to a new fee charging  structure. Ms M was given the option of closing the 
accounts without  penalty or transferring to a new provider. She did not raise any objection at 
the time.  In line with the new charging  structure,  Ms M was charged  £33.19  on 9 November 
2018; there was nothing  to show that Ms M had been charged fees outside the charging 
scheme. Our investigator acknowledged  that Ms M had felt frustrated at being  unable to 
open a new account whilst abroad, but the business was entitled to set its own eligibility  
criteria for products.
Ms M disagrees  with the view, she says she has been  charged £92.50  every  six months  and 
£239.27. Ms M has subsequently raised some  additional issues  about  the difficulty  
contacting Santander, their delays in responding, issues around  closing the account  and 
Santanders failure to set out interest  figures  clearly.  As our investigator has explained, these 
are new matters, which do not form the basis of the original complaint, so I will not be 
considering them within the confines  of this decision.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santanders records show they notified Ms M about  the changes  being made. Ive seen a 
copy of the letter sent to Ms M in August  2017,  which included  terms and conditions  for the 
new Investment Hub, a key facts  document and a fees and charges guide. The letter was 
sent to Ms M at her UK address, a few months before she notified Santander that she was 
moving abroad. So, Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that adequate information was 
sent about these changes.
Theres nothing to show that Ms M took action before the investments migrated to the new 
platform at the beginning of October  2017. Ms M has said she made some calls to 
Santander but theres nothing on their records about this and Ms M doesnt have any 
evidence to show that calls were made.
Ive seen that Ms M sent a secure,  online message about her address change  in November 
(after migration) but nothing was raised  about  the platform changes at that time. Ms M was 
therefore able to access her new accounts online and theres nothing to show that she did 
not accept the changes  at the time. 
It appears that Ms M has misunderstood the fees that have been charged.  Ms M has 
referred to a bi-annual fee of £92.50  (total £185). But this figure comes from an illustration, 
explaining how the fees are calculated. It is an example and is not specific  to Ms M. Ms Ms 
statement shows that a platform service fee of £33.19 was charged on 9 November 2018. 
Santander have  explained that this was calculated in line with the account  terms, being a 
percentage of the investment and it is the only service platform fee that has been charged.  
On the basis of the evidence provided  by the parties, I consider that it is more likely than not 
that this is the only service fee charged  since the investments moved to the new Hub.  
Ref: DRN25657763The statement  also shows that £206.08 was taken separately as a product cost,  but this was 
deducted by the investment product provider not by Santander, as explained in the terms for 
the platform. So I cant fairly say that any of the deductions were  unauthorised.
I appreciate that Ms M was disappointed  in being  unable to open new products with 
Santander. But it was for Santander to determine  the eligibility criteria for their new products. 
As our investigator has explained, this was a business decision made by Santander  and 
theres nothing to show that Ms M has been treated differently to others  who live abroad.
I think its helpful to explain that our service has not regulatory or disciplinary role. We have 
no power to tell a business how to operate. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms M, but I wont be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565776