K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr D complained  because  Santander UK Plc refused to refund transactions  which
they reported as fraudulent.
background
Mrs D had a Santander  account in her sole name,  and Mr and Mrs D also had a joint
account with the bank.
At around 2pm on 1 May 2018, Mrs D authorised  a transaction on her sole account,  and at
around 5.30pm  on 1 May 2018, she authorised one on the joint account.  Mrs D said she
didnt notice anything  strange at the supermarket where she last used the card,  but she was
busy as she had children  with her and was in a rush to get them to various activities.  These
were the last genuine transactions  on the accounts.
Mrs D kept her debit cards in her purse.  She didnt realise on 1 May that her purse  had been
stolen. Overnight, money started to be taken out of both accounts, both as payment for
goods and as cash. Most of these  withdrawals used the genuine card with the chip in it, and
the correct PIN. There were also two attempted transactions for £25, one on each account, 
which hadnt been used in this way. They were online or telephone payments to a phone  
company, and had been verified and authorised  by the three digit code on the back of the 
card, not by the chip and PIN.
Santanders fraud computer software picked up a possible problem when the amount  of the
attempted cash withdrawals exceeded  the limit. The software sent automated texts to Mrs
and Mr D in the early hours of the morning  on 2 May. No further successful withdrawals were
made after that point.
When Mr and Mrs D woke up that morning and saw the messages, they got in touch with 
Santander, and confirmed that the transactions had been fraudulent.  A total of £674.44 had 
been taken from the accounts. Mr and Mrs D asked  Santander to refund them the fraudulent  
transactions.
Mrs D also reported the theft of her purse  to the police. The police obtained  CCTV showing
two suspects taking  money out of an ATM,  and arrested one of them. But it was the other 
suspect whod been shown doing the actual transaction, and they werent able to trace  that
person, so no-ones been convicted of the crime.
Santander investigated, but it wouldnt refund Mr and Mrs D for the transactions theyd said
they hadnt authorised. In its final response  letter, Santander explained that the disputed
transactions had been verified  by the chip on the card and the correct  PIN. There was no
explanation for how the PIN was known. Santander reminded Mrs D that when cards and
PINs were sent out, the bank asked customers to memorise the PIN then destroy the advice
slip.
Mrs D had also complained that when she rang about the problem, Santanders adviser had
implied that her children  might have used the card. In its final response Santander said it had
listened to the call, and the adviser had asked a number of questions, including whether
anyone Mrs D knew could have used  the card. This was because the correct  PIN had been
used.
Ref: DRN24374742Santander also noted that it hadnt  properly raised two of the disputed transactions,  and it
apologised for this and paid £40 compensation for the inconvenience.
Mrs and Mr D werent  satisfied and complained to this service. Mrs D said that her main
gripe with Santander  was that theyd sent her a text in the middle  of the night,  when they
were all asleep with mobiles turned off. She was annoyed that the bank  hadnt  stopped  the
account straightaway, rather than waiting for them to ring back. Mrs D also said theyd had to
take out a loan for living expenses because of the loss.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mrs and Mr Ds complaint. She explained that the regulations
say that customers must take all reasonable steps  to keep personal security credentials,
such as PINs and passwords, safe. Customers have  to tell their bank without undue delay
if they find out the cards lost or stolen. If customers fail to do this, its gross negligence
and theyre liable for the unauthorised payments, not the bank.
The investigator considered the various options for what might have happened. She didnt
consider Mrs and Mr D had made  the payments themselves. Noting that Mrs and Mr D had
reported the theft to the police, whod found CCTV footage which led to someone being
arrested.
The investigator also didnt think it was likely that someone known to Mrs and Mr D had
made the disputed  transactions.  The police had identified two suspects, and if these people
had been members of Mrs and Mr Ds household, it was likely the police would have
identified that fact.
So the investigator thought the transactions must have been  made  by someone Mrs and Mr
D didnt know. But she concluded  that for the fraudsters to know the correct  PINs for both
cards, it was most  likely that Mrs D had written the numbers down and kept them in her
purse with the cards,  along with other documents such as her driving licence and other 
cards. This would be gross negligence under the regulations, so Santander wasnt  obliged 
to refund the loss.
Mrs and Mr D werent  satisfied. Mrs D explained that shed seen people in shops use their
card for transactions and the card issuer  hadnt  let the transaction go through  without first
checking confirmation from the account  holder. She said the police  had told her there were
gadgets like card readers available which could read a PIN number. Mrs D said she was
very disappointed, as the police reports had proved it wasnt her, or anyone  she knew. And
as one of the suspects  was in prison  for what shed been told was related  crimes , she was
upset to have  been doubted. She said that we couldnt prove  shed had the PIN numbers in
her purse, and nor could  she prove  they hadnt  been. She felt it would be fairer to have a full
refund for the online transactions and some  sort of refund for the other transactions.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations which govern Mrs and Mr Ds complaint
The relevant  regulations  for Mrs and Mr Ds complaint are the Payment Services
Regulations 2017. These set out that payments out of an account  can only be authorised if
Ref: DRN24374743the payment service  users (Mrs and Mr D) have consented to it. The regulations  also say
that account holders can also be liable for payments  they havent consented to, if they
havent meet  certain obligations.
The obligations which  account holders must  meet include:
- using their cards in accordance with the account terms and conditions;
- taking all reasonable steps to keep their personal security credentials  such as PINs
and passwords  safe. This includes not writing down these details.
- telling the bank without undue delay if they become  aware  the card has been lost
or stolen.
If account holders  dont  meet these  requirements, it can count as gross negligence and
they, not the bank, have to meet the cost.
Who carried out the disputed  transactions
When transactions are disputed, we look first at all the options for what might have
happened:
-Sometimes the account  holder  has done  the transactions themselves, or has
authorised someone  else to make them. I consider this is very unlikely here. Mrs D
reported the theft to the police as soon as she knew, and the police investigated and
found two possible  suspects through CCTV.
- Sometimes the transactions have been carried  out by someone known to the account
holder. Again, I consider  this is very unlikely.  The disputed  transactions were made
during the middle of the night, and I accept that Mrs D, Mr D and their family  were at
home in bed. There was no pattern of them making transactions at this time of day 
whereas a thief would  typically take money out as quickly  as possible, before the
card thefts were found out.
- So I considered  it was most likely  that the transactions were carried out by thieves 
who stole Mrs Ds purse and all the cards and other  documents  she had in it.
As I set out in the background  section,  no more fraudulent transactions went  through  after
Santander sent text messages. So Santander  didnt  let any through after that point.
How did the thieves know the PIN numbers?
But the transactions having been  made by a thief doesnt automatically mean that the bank,
rather than the account holder, has to foot the bill. Ive set out above  the rules  about whats
called gross negligence. The key issue here is how the thieves  could have known the PIN
numbers for the cards. There were  separate cards for the single and the joint accounts.
Money was stolen from both by the thieves.
I considered whether someone might  have been  looking over Mrs Ds shoulder  when she
made the last genuine withdrawal on the joint account  at around 5.30pm on 1 May, and
might have seen the PIN number she entered. Mrs D had children with her, and was in a
rush to take them to activities. But Mrs D only took money out of the joint account  at that
location. So even if someone had been looking over her shoulder and had seen the PIN
shed entered,  that doesnt  explain why the thief knew  the PIN for the other  account.  They
Ref: DRN24374744were different numbers,  and Mrs D only used  one of them for this transaction. So that 
couldnt be the reason the thieves  knew  the PIN numbers.
Mrs Ds told us that shes heard that there  are gadgets which can read the PIN number from
any card.  But thats not correct. When cards are cloned, the magnetic stripe on the back  can
be copied. And online or phone transactions can be authenticated just using the three digit
security number on the back. Thats  what happened  with the two transactions  for £25. So
different rules apply  to those two transactions, as Ill explain below. But chip technology is
more advanced.  There havent been any known cases where the unique chip on a card has
been copied, or the PIN identified from a card. So if the computer records show  that a
genuine card with a chip has been used, the PIN number can only have come from the
person who carried  out the transaction knowing what the correct  number was.
Ive borne in mind that the computer system would also show  any transactions which  failed
because an incorrect PIN had been put in. This didnt happen on Mrs and Mr Ds accounts.
And there are around 10,000 permutations for a four digit PIN number  and all the
transactions on Mrs and Mr Ds accounts  were  authorised by the correct  PIN first time.
So the only conclusion  I could come to was that when the thieves  stole  Mrs Ds purse,
somewhere in the purse  there was a written  note of the PINs for the two different cards. Im
afraid this does count  as gross negligence under the regulations. I realise this is very hard
for Mrs and Mr D, when  they were the victims of crime. But I couldnt see any other scenario
This meant that the liability for the stolen  money  is with Mrs and Mr D, not Santander.  So I
didnt uphold  the complaint for Santander to pay the cost of the fraudulent transactions.
The two online or phone  fraudulent transactions
As I set out in the background  section,  there  were two authorised  transactions for £25, one 
on each account,  which had been  verified by the three digit code on the back of the card, not 
by a PIN. Different rules apply to these, and they are called distance transactions. A 
distance contract is one made using distance  communication without the physical presence 
of the trader or consumer  (e.g. buying  something  online or over the phone).
Under the Payment  Service Regulations  and the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, the consumer
isnt usually liable for an unauthorised payment transaction, where  the transaction involves
a distance contract. There are some  exceptions to this, called excepted  contracts. but I
considered that didnt  apply to the fraud  against Mrs and Mr Ds account.  So I found that the
cost of the two £25 fraudulent transactions should be borne by Santander. I considered  the
bank should refund them £50 in total.
Mrs Ds complaint about Santanders phone  call
Mrs D also complained to Santander that, when she rang about the theft,  it implied that her
children might have carried out the transactions. Ive listened to the call. The adviser did ask
Mrs D lots of questions  about the circumstances,  because the correct PIN had been used
with the card, which was unusual. The questions included asking whether Mrs D had had
any visitors, and whether  shed applied for any trial products. The adviser did say that
sometimes a child might use a parents card,  but Mrs D said that the older  two children had
their own cards, and the adviser  then said ok.
I didnt consider that the Santander adviser was claiming that Mrs Ds children had made the
transactions. The adviser had explained  that it was unusual to have fraud transactions where
Ref: DRN24374745the PIN had been used, so I find that she was just trying to work  out how the PIN might have
been obtained. So I dont find the bank did anything wrong in asking these  questions.
responses to my provisional  decision
Santander didnt  accept my provisional  decision. It said that:
-the distance transaction for £25 on Mrs and Mr Ds joint account had been verified by 
the three digit code  on the back of the card.  So it had been authorised. But it hadnt 
physically debited  her account because the merchant hadnt ever claimed  the 
payment; 
-the distance transaction for £25 on Mrs Ds sole account had been  attempted  after 
the card had been reported missing, so it had been stopped.
So Santander said that Mrs and Mr D hadnt had these sums debited from their accounts.
Mrs and Mr D didnt reply to the provisional  decision. The investigator informed them  about 
Santanders response, but they didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of Santanders  reply, Ive looked  again at the two £25 distance  transactions.  I can 
see they appear on the banks internal lists of transactions,  and I can see the authorisation. 
However, the bank  statements dont show that Mrs and Mr D were ever debited  with the £50. 
As this money wasnt debited, it isnt due to be paid back to them.
Ive also reconsidered  the transactions which were  authorised by chip and PIN. Having done 
so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions about those transactions.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 December 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2437474