K822xcomplaint
Mrs H is company director of M, a limited  company. She complains on behalf  of M that 
National Westminster Bank Plc refused to reimburse  money paid from Ms account by direct
debit to another company  (company B).
background 
In early January  2019 Mrs H believed company B had made a mistake  with some of Ms 
direct debit payments,  amounting to about  £2,300. She contacted  Nat West as she believed 
she was entitled  to an automatic refund under  the direct debit guarantee. Nat West refused 
to refund the money because  it said it wasnt its policy to raise  direct debit indemnities for 
direct debits to company  B. 
In early February 2019 Nat West accepted it could raise a direct  debit  indemnity  and 
returned the money to M. In between times,  Mrs H complained to Nat West on behalf  of M 
and made  several  lengthy attempts to convince its staff she was entitled  to an automatic  
refund. Nat West initially maintained its position not to refund the money,  although it 
accepted it had provided a poor level of service to Mrs H and paid M £30 to recognise that. 
But in late January 2019 it wrote  to Mrs H to say it had changed  its process with regard  to 
company B and it had therefore  upheld  her complaint. It invited Mrs H to raise a direct debit 
indemnity claim. Mrs H tried to do that the next day but was again told by Nat West it was 
unable to do that for company B. It eventually returned the money to M about a week later.
Mrs H remained  unhappy and complained to this service. She said she wanted 
compensation for her time and for the loss to her company. She also said shed had to let 
some of her staff go due to the lack of funds. In responding to this services request for 
information, Nat West  accepted  it had got it wrong  and should  have carried  out a direct  debit  
indemnity on the first occasion Mrs H had contacted it. It offered £100 for the trouble and 
upset it had caused.
Our investigator said it wasnt in dispute that Nat West had made a mistake in not raising  a 
direct debit indemnity  straight away. She accepted  this would have caused Mrs H a lot of 
frustration and upset.  However, as her complaint was made  on behalf of M, a limited 
company, she needed  to consider the impact on the company, not on Mrs H. She 
recognised that Mrs H had said M had suffered financial difficulties due to Nat Wests 
mistake, but shed  not been able to provide any evidence of that. As such,  she couldnt fairly 
say Nat West was responsible for those financial difficulties. She therefore  thought  the £100 
compensation Nat West had offered  was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mrs H was unhappy with this outcome and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons.
Ref: DRN20471202I can understand why Mrs H is upset at Nat West for refusing to process  her companys 
legitimate claim for direct debit indemnity. As our investigator said, there  is no dispute that 
Nat West got this wrong. Its told us that its taking  action  to learn from this complaint and to 
update the information  it provides  its staff and customers on when direct debit indemnity 
claims in relation to company B should  be raised.  That should hopefully  prevent this mistake  
from being repeated  in the future. The question I need to answer is whether Nat West needs 
to do any more to put matters right for M.
Nat West has apologised for the error  and accepts  that Mrs H had to spend  a considerable 
amount of time chasing  the direct debit indemnity. Its offered to pay £100 for the trouble and 
upset its caused.  Mrs H doesnt think thats  enough and has told us about  the impact  on her 
and her business, including the amount of time she had to spend contacting Nat West and 
the financial problems  the delay in refunding  the payments caused her company.
When considering  whether  or not Nat West has done enough to put things right I need  to 
consider what impact Nat Wests  mistake  had on M, the limited company, rather  than Mrs H 
herself, who is a director of the company.  Thats because a limited company is a separate  
legal entity from the people  who run it. I can tell a business to make  an award for 
inconvenience in this situation   but only if it was experienced by the company itself,  rather  
than the people bringing the complaint. 
Mrs H says the delay  in refunding the direct  debit payments caused a lot of problems for her 
company. She says a few orders had to be refunded  and they were  unable to place some  
orders as they couldnt  buy the necessary materials.  She says this led to some negative  
reviews about the company. Mrs H also says the company had been evicted from their 
original location  because theyd been  unable to pay the rent on their premises. And they had 
to make some of their staff redundant due to the financial problems caused by Nat West. We 
asked Mrs H to provide evidence of the impact shes described  but shes  been unable to do 
that. 
The evidence she has provided indicates  that some of the problems faced  by the company 
pre-date her contact with Nat West and concern issues  not related  to its delay in reimbursing 
the money to M. I can also see that the direct debit payments were being duplicated a 
number of months before she contacted Nat West. So I think  much of the impact Mrs H has 
described might have been  avoided had she noticed the problem  with her direct debits 
sooner.
In light of the above, I think  it would be unfair  to say the delay by Nat West in refunding the 
direct debits caused the financial  problems  Mrs H has told us about. Nat West has offered to 
pay M £100 for the considerable amount of time Mrs H had to spend sorting out this issue  
(on top of the £30 it has already paid for the poor service caused  in January 2019). In light of 
the above, I believe that is a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances of this case. I 
dont think Nat West needs to do anything more  than that.
my final decision
My decision  is that I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay M a total of £100 for the 
trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Ref: DRN20471203Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2047120