K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy with the amount Eldon Insurance Services  Ltd (trading as Go Skippy) asked  
him to pay following the cancellation of his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr C bought his motor insurance policy  online through  a price comparison website. He was 
sent the relevant policy documents, a breakdown of his premium,  his cancellation rights and 
Eldons terms and conditions which outlined its charges  and fees.
A few months later Mr C contacted Eldon and confirmed he wanted to cancel his policy. 
He was sent an email  confirming  the cancellation and that he was required to pay £219.37. 
Eldon provided a breakdown of this amount and it later agreed  to remove  the £75 
cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill.  A balance of £144.37  remained.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
We arent  a regulator and cannot ask a business to change  its terms of business.
The balance Eldon  asked for after the cancellation was fair. It was made up of the 
premium for the time on cover, direct debit  set up fee, broker  fee, breakdown  cover  and 
interest on the finance agreement plus the cancellation fee. All of these fees were 
outlined in the documentation  and terms of business.
Mr C wouldve confirmed hed read the terms of business before purchasing the policy 
and wouldnt  have  been able to proceed and pay for it without doing so. He was also sent 
a copy of them shortly  after that. He wouldve been  reasonably aware  of the fees and 
charges hed be liable to pay if he cancelled  the policy  after the 14 day cooling off period.
It was fair of Eldon  to remove  the £75 cancellation fee as a goodwill gesture. That left a 
balance owed  of £144.37. It also placed  the debt on hold while the complaint has been 
investigated. That was fair. 
Overall Eldon cancelled the policy in line with the applicable terms. It fairly removed the 
cancellation charge. And although receiving  chasing letters may have been stressful for 
Mr C this doesnt  warrant any redress.
Mr C remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
In summary  I think Eldon  reasonably  brought all the applicable terms and conditions relating 
to the policy  and its terms of business to Mr Cs attention both before and just after he 
purchased his policy. They set out the way his premium was calculated  and the various 
costs and charges  applicable to it including those if he cancelled  it outside the cooling off 
period. I think he was therefore  adequately  made aware of them.
Ref: DRN27993462Eldon has explained how the balance of £219.37 owed on cancellation  was broken down. 
Its also fairly and reasonably removed its £75 cancellation charge as a goodwill gesture 
bringing the amount owed down to £144.37.
I think Eldon  was entitled to seek to recover the money it is owed by Mr C even if its letters 
may have  caused  him some stress. And it has put the matter on hold while this complaint is 
dealt with which is fair.
I think Mr C properly owes Eldon some money  and it is now fair for it to seek to recover  it 
from him. I would urge Mr C to contact  Eldon to arrange an affordable  repayment  plan if he 
cannot pay it off in one payment.
Taking everything into account  I dont think Eldon has acted unfairly.  And I can neither  
reasonably ask it to do anything  more, including paying Mr C any compensation, nor to not 
take steps to recover the debt as hed like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799346