K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc didnt  treat him fairly  at the end of his interest 
only mortgage term. In particular, it unfairly  refused  a term extension  to allow  the mortgage 
to be repaid, and provided poor service  and communication.
background
This was a joint mortgage,  but sadly Mrs R passed away  after the term ended,  and during 
the life of this complaint. It therefore becomes Mr Rs complaint only  though  where 
appropriate Ill refer to both Mr and Mrs R. And before I go any further Id like to offer Mr R 
my sincere condolences  on the loss of his wife, and on the earlier  loss of his son.
Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage with Barclays many years  ago. It was on interest only 
terms, and there was also a linked  mortgage current account  though it seems Mr and 
Mrs R hadnt made  much  use of the current account  and it had a nil balance at the end of 
the mortgage term.
The term ended in late 2017, by which time the balance of the mortgage  was less than 
£250,000  for context, it seems the property is worth around £1.25million and so the loan to 
value was around 20%. I have rounded all these  figures for ease.
Mr R says that the longstanding plan to raise funds  to repay  the mortgage at the end of the 
term was to convert an outbuilding and sell it separately  he estimated that would raise 
around £450,000 and would therefore  comfortably be enough to repay the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs Rs son began the conversion work with a view to buying  the outbuilding himself.  
Planning permission had been  obtained,  an architect engaged and work had begun when 
very sadly he suddenly  passed away. At this point there was around five or six years left on 
the mortgage term.
Quite understandably, Mr and Mrs R didnt immediately progress the conversion works. 
They focussed on their grief.  And then they began to campaign  on the issues related to their 
sons death. Later, they became involved in a substantial project  in part, in their sons 
memory  which took up a considerable amount  of Mr Rs time in particular.
The result was that, by 2017, when the term end was approaching,  the conversion  work 
hadnt been progressed, the outbuilding couldnt be sold, and Mr and Mrs R didnt think they 
had an immediate way of repaying  the mortgage  balance. So they visited their local branch 
of Barclays and spoke  to a mortgage  adviser.
Mr R says they didnt  have a specific timeframe  in mind, but the adviser recommended  a 
term extension of eight  years,  so thats  what they applied for. He says the adviser  told him 
that had been accepted. But then they learned that in fact only an application had been 
made, and the application  was rejected by Barclays mortgage  centre.
Mr and Mrs R appealed  the refusal and complained. Their  application  went before a panel  of 
senior managers for further consideration. The panel also refused it. The panel said that it 
noted Mr and Mrs R had around £100,000 in cash and other substantial  assets   including 
shares, artworks and other collectables. It said that Mr and Mrs R therefore  had the means 
to repay  the mortgage and Barclays would not be able to grant a term extension.
Ref: DRN29752022Mr and Mrs R continued to complain  and to appeal. There was further  discussion and they 
provided further evidence of the plans to convert  the outbuilding. And they explained that 
while they did have  other assets, it would take time to liquidate  them   especially the 
artworks. So they didnt agree they would be in a position to repay the mortgage when the 
term ended  in October 2017.  They  said they had been longstanding and loyal customers  
who had never missed a payment and it would  be the fair thing to do to give them  some  
more time to realise the conversion  plans and raise  the funds to repay.  They said they would 
prefer a five year extension but thought  that two years would be manageable.
Barclays again refused  a term extension,  but said it would allow Mr and Mrs R six months  to 
raise the funds to repay  provided  they gave  it evidence  of a credible plan to realise their 
assets. 
Mr and Mrs R managed  to raise alternative  finance and the mortgage was paid off in early 
2018. Mr and Mrs R then pursued their complaint. But Mrs R sadly fell ill in 2018  and passed 
away in 2020.  Mr R now brings their complaint about how they were treated around  the 
ending of the term. He says that not only was the refusal to extend  the term unfair, but that 
the communication and service were  poor.  Barclays repeatedly failed  to answer 
correspondence and used the wrong  phone number to try and contact them  even after being 
told several times it was wrong. Mr and Mrs R were given conflicting information by different 
staff members and departments and spoken  to inappropriately. Mr R believes that the stress 
and worry of losing their home and its associations both with Mrs Rs work  and their sons  
memory was very real and a significant  factor in Mrs Rs later illness. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had given Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances fair consideration 
and had acted  fairly  in offering them a further six months to redeem the mortgage  which,  
she noted, Mr and Mrs R had been able to do. But she thought that Barclays communication  
had been poor and caused Mr and Mrs R real stress and worry over several months.  She 
said it should pay £600 compensation.
Barclays thought  that was too high, but agreed to pay it to resolve the complaint. But Mr R 
didnt accept that. He calculated  the compensation he believed due at around £125,000.  So 
the complaint  comes  to me for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When this complaint was first made,  Barclays said it was out of time because it had been 
brought to us more than six months after it issued a final response. Our investigator 
explained that she considered the delay was caused by exceptional circumstances, which 
Barclays accepted.  Im therefore satisfied I have jurisdiction to consider this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs R borrowed the money for their mortgage from Barclays 
 and that they needed to pay it back. The issue here is that Mr and Mrs R didnt think they 
were in a position  to do so when the term expired  in October 2017.  
Its worth  saying  that when they took the mortgage  out Mr and Mrs R committed to repaying 
it then and  as a starting point, and all other things being equal   its fair that Barclays 
expected them to keep to that commitment. Not least because theres a cost to a lender 
when it doesnt  get its capital back,  even when interest payments continue to be made.
Ref: DRN29752023However, its also important to bear in mind that Barclays has obligations  to treat its 
customers fairly, paying due regard to their interests. Where a customer  cant repay an 
interest only mortgage on the due date, a lender should work with them  to try to come to 
some arrangement for it to be repaid. That includes considering whether a term extension to 
a point where a mortgage can be repaid might be fair, as well as things like converting the 
mortgage to repayment. A lender should  try and reach agreement where possible, with 
repossessing the property  being  the last resort.
Ive borne all that in mind in looking at this case. Having done so, it seems  to me that both 
Barclays and Mr and Mrs R have force in their arguments.
Barclays is right that Mr and Mrs R needed  to repay their mortgage. They did have the 
means of doing  so  whether through the conversion of the outbuilding or liquidating other  
assets. And while I accept  it would  have taken time to do those  things, the date the term 
ended wasnt a surprise to Mr and Mrs R. And while I understand their reasons for doing so, 
the fact is they had chosen to focus on other  things  in the years  leading up to 2017, with the 
result that they were  unprepared for the end of their mortgage term despite their obligation  to 
repay.
However, its also true to say that Mr and Mrs R were unable to repay their mortgage at the 
end of the term. And they were  right that there was no question  theyd be able to do so at 
some point, even if they couldnt do so in late 2017.
In that situation,  I would expect Barclays to look at their circumstances and allow a 
reasonable time for Mr and Mrs R to put plans in place to get themselves to a point at which  
they could repay; I wouldnt  expect,  for example, repossession action to start the day after 
the term ended.  Equally, where there  are means to repay and it just needs time to realise 
them, a longer term extension wouldnt be necessary  its fair to give a shorter  time,  
keeping matters under review.
Ultimately, this is what happened. Barclays  allowed Mr and Mrs R six months in the first 
instance, and Mr and Mrs R were  able to repay the mortgage within  a few months by 
re-financing. This means that Barclays allowed Mr and Mrs R some time to find a means to 
repay, and Mr and Mrs R were able to do so. This is what I would expect to happen, and so I 
dont think the overall  outcome was unfair in this case.
However, I do think there were significant problems along the way. It seems  to me that what 
went wrong here was more to do with the process  than the final outcome.
Ive looked at all the communication in this case, and I can understand Mr and Mrs Rs 
frustration. They were  given conflicting information  including  about whether or not they 
would be allowed a further six months.  Barclays repeatedly  tried to communicate with them  
using a phone number it had been  told was wrong   meaning Mr and Mrs R didnt receive 
some key messages  at all. Letters went unanswered and Mr and Mrs R had to provide 
information to Barclays more than once. 
All of this caused  Mr and Mrs R significant  upset. They were clearly  very worried  about  what 
would happen  and the risk of losing their home   which  had special significance  in their 
particular circumstances.  This was a very stressful time, and they were  also significantly 
inconvenienced in having to provide  information to Barclays and speak to many different 
staff members.
Ref: DRN29752024Although Ive said that  in the end  a fair outcome was reached, there were times  along 
the way when Barclays didnt act as Id expect. It appeared at some points to be too quick  to 
dismiss Mr and Mrs Rs concerns, and was unwilling to allow  them any time at all after the 
term end date until the head  office complaints function got involved  things  shouldnt  have 
reached that stage  before  Barclays was willing to allow Mr and Mrs R reasonable time to put 
plans into effect.
So I do think  Barclays needs  to take steps to put matters right.  Mr R has provided  us with a 
schedule of his claim for compensation,  amounting to over £120,000. And Ive considered  
this very carefully, but Im not persuaded that would be a fair award in this case.
In the first place, it was Mr and Mrs Rs obligation to repay, and their inability to do so, which  
lay at the heart of this complaint. I dont think it would be fair to expect Barclays  to pay them  
for their time, at a professional hourly  rate, in negotiating with Barclays about how the 
mortgage would be repaid. 
Although how Barclays  handled this case meant that Mr and Mrs R spent more time dealing  
with matters than they should, it would always have taken some time, expense  and 
inconvenience to resolve this situation. And its unfortunately the nature of modern life that 
things will go wrong from time to time and I will take the impact of that into account in 
deciding what would  be fair compensation  but there is no obligation, in my view, for 
Barclays to reimburse the cost of Mr and Mrs Rs time at a notional  hourly  rate which  
doesnt, from the evidence Ive seen,  relate  to a specific  financial loss theyve incurred. And 
the same  applies to a claim for the costs of running  their home office   which  they would 
have spent anyway  - and costs incurred because they drove  to a Post Office to post letters.
Nor would it be fair to expect Barclays to pay the additional interest on the new loan 
Mr and Mrs R took out compared to the interest  rate on the Barclays  mortgage. What  was 
required in this case was for Mr and Mrs R to repay their mortgage,  and for Barclays  to allow  
them a reasonable time to do so. Barclays isnt liable for the costs incurred in the particular 
method Mr and Mrs R chose to use to repay.
I also dont think theres  any evidence that Mrs Rs later illness was caused by Barclays, and 
in the absence of evidence of direct causation thats not a matter  I can take into account.
That leaves compensation for the stress, worry and inconvenience caused by Barclays  poor 
communication and service, and initial failure to agree a reasonable time for Mr and Mrs R to 
explore options  to repay. I do think compensation is due for this. But I dont agree that a 
weekly figure is the right way to approach it  and nor do I think that compensation is due for 
the entire period from 2017 to now. 
Instead, in my view the fair way to approach  this is to look at the worry, stress and 
inconvenience Barclays caused at the time Mr and Mrs R were trying to resolve  their 
mortgage, and to take a step back and look at things in the round. Ive done that, and have 
considered the sorts of awards  the Financial  Ombudsman Service makes in cases  like this, 
as well as the specific impact of what went wrong  in their circumstances at the time. In my 
view this is a case that merits a substantial award,  and I agree  that £600  is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN29752025my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr R £600  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 September  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2975202