K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  added  paid-for insurance 
policies to his late aunts current account, without  either of their consent.
background
This complaint concerns  the late Ms Ms account,  for which  Mr B had held power  of attorney 
since April 2017. Id like to start by offering my condolences to Mr B for the loss of his aunt,  
which although some  months ago, was undoubtedly a difficult  time.
Ms M held a packaged  bank account with Barclays for a number of years.  She paid a fee for 
the packaged account, and received  a number of benefits in return. I havent looked into the 
sale of the initial account as Mr B hasnt complained about that one. And our investigator told 
Mr B he could  complain directly to Barclays in the first instance about  it, if he wanted to.
In January 2017 Barclays changed Ms Ms account as part of a change to the products it 
offered. It became a fee-free Premier account, with three added Feature Store packs   
providing broadly  similar  benefits  to Ms Ms previous packaged account. Each of the Feature 
Store packs attracted  its own fee.
Mr B says Barclays  changed Ms Ms account  without her or him being made aware of it. So 
he says that they werent aware of the accounts benefits, which is evidenced by the fact that 
theyve never been used.  Mr B also says that at the time the account was changed, his aunt 
was unwell and wouldnt have had the capacity to read the information  she was given  about  
the changes.
Mr B has also complained that when he called Barclays to raise  the complaint,  the Barclays  
advisor didnt listen  to him properly and he was held on the phone for an hour.  Barclays has 
offered Mr B £50 compensation  for this part of the complaint, which Mr B hasnt accepted.
One of our investigators  didnt think that Barclays had acted unfairly, so she didnt think  
Barclays needed to put anything right. Mr B didnt agree so he asked for an ombudsman to 
look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Bs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think Barclays treated Ms M unfairly by 
changing her account.  And I also dont think Barclays offer of £50 compensation for the 
service Mr B received  is unreasonable.  Ill explain  why.
I can see from Barclays customer notes that Mr B completed Barclays forms to be added as 
power of attorney to Ms Ms account  on 31 March 2017. And it looks  as though  he was 
added on 10 April 2017.
Ref: DRN20927262Barclays wrote to Ms M in October 2016 to let her know  itd be changing  her account to a 
fee-free Premier bank account, with paid-for Feature Store packs, in January 2017.  It then 
wrote to Ms M again in January 2017  to let her know that the change  had been completed. 
And whilst I accept that Ms M mayve been  unwell at that time, theres nothing to suggest  
that Barclays shouldve  known about that. Im also mindful that although Mr B mayve been  
caring for Ms M or looking after her finances in some  way at the time, he hadnt yet been  
given access to act as power of attorney  and it looks  as though  the address held by 
Barclays was Ms Ms address, rather than Mr Bs.
Barclays notes suggest that Mr B contacted  it shortly after being given access to act as Ms 
Ms attorney,  to discuss the Feature Store Travel  Plus pack.  The notes Ive seen suggest 
that Mr B request a refund of the charges since the pack was added  to Ms Ms account in 
January 2017,  as Ms M had been  unwell and hadnt  made use of it. Mr B also asked to 
remove the pack from the account. It looks as though Barclays  agreed to refund the cost of 
the Travel Plus pack from January 2017,  and Ive seen it sent a letter  to confirm  that it 
removed the pack from Ms Ms account. The notes, although brief, also suggest  that the 
advisor asked whether  Mr B also wanted  to remove the other two packs  but Mr B said hed 
check with Ms M. It looks as though the remaining  two packs  were removed in March  2018.
Ive also seen two Annual Eligibility Statement  letters that Barclays  sent to Ms M  which 
included a reminder of her accounts  benefits   in February 2017 and January 2018.  Again, I 
should emphasise that I do understand that Ms M may not have been in a position to read 
those letters. But for me to conclude that Barclays has done something wrong and needs to 
put things right, Id need to think it either  hadnt  done something that it shouldve done,  or it 
had done something that it shouldnt have done.  But from what I can see the first letter was 
sent to Ms M at her address, and the second  was sent addressed to Ms M at Mr Bs address 
 after hed been added as power  of attorney to the account.
It looks as though Mr B contacted Barclays again  in March 2018  to complain about the 
remaining two Feature  Store packs  the Tech Pack  and Home pack. He requested a refund 
of the fees, as Ms M hadnt used the benefits of the packs.
I can understand that its frustrating to find out Ms M had been paying  for something that she 
hadnt used, but I havent  seen enough to make me think that it was Barclays  error that 
caused this. From what Ive seen,  and as Ive explained, it seems as though Barclays  did 
what it needed to, to make Ms M and Mr B aware  of the Feature Store packs  on Ms Ms 
account. And it seems  as though Mr B was aware of the packs  from at least April 2017, 
when he discussed  them by phone with Barclays. Although  Ms M didnt go on to make  use 
of the remaining packs, that doesnt mean that Mr B is entitled to a refund of the fees that 
Ms M paid for them.
So for the reasons Ive explained,  Barclays wasnt  wrong to change Ms Ms account to the 
Premier account with Feature store packs. Barclays was free to do that, as long as it made  
Ms M aware  which Im satisfied it did. 
Ive also thought about what  Mr B has said about  the service he received from Barclays  on 
the phone  when he initially called to make  his complaint.
Ref: DRN20927263I havent heard a recording of the call in question but Ive seen notes in relation to it. And I 
can understand that it doesnt look as though the phone call was as helpful as it couldve 
been. The notes  suggest that the Barclays advisor  didnt  initially  listen  to Mr B, which  meant 
he had to repeat himself,  and was eventually passed to a manager and to another Barclays  
staff member. So it sounds as though the call was frustrating  and longer than it shouldve  
been.
Barclays accepted  that its call with Mr B hadnt  gone  as well as it couldve and offered Mr B 
£50 to recognise the inconvenience the matter  had caused. Mr B didnt  accept Barclays 
offer.
Im mindful that dealing  with large organisations can generally be inconvenient and time 
consuming  so I wouldnt usually award  any compensation purely in recognition of a 
consumer needing  to make a complaint.  So in this situation I need  to consider whether the 
way Barclays dealt  with Mr B added to the usual amount  of time or inconvenience that might  
be expected.
I do agree  that it looks as though Mr B was passed  around  on the phone,  and from the notes 
Ive seen it looks as though he was put on hold twice and had to repeat himself  a number of 
times. But even so, it looks as though Mr B was still able to do what he needed to do  which 
was to log two complaints   when he called. I do accept this likely took longer than it needed 
to, but in the circumstances I think £50 is a reasonable offer of compensation to recognise 
the inconvenience this caused.
Having considered everything  I dont think that Barclays  needs  to do anything further to 
resolve this complaint. As Ive explained,  I cant see that it made an error  when it changed  
Ms Ms account, although  I accept Ms M didnt make use of the benefits. And I think the offer 
of compensation  Barclays has made in relation to the service it provided is fair. 
I understand that this will be disappointing  to Mr B, but Im unable  to uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2092726