K822xcomplaint
Ms D complains about problems she had when she tried to claim on her boiler insurance 
policy with Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G). 
background 
Ms Ds boiler  wasnt working properly  so she contacted D&G. Ms D was referred  to its 
approved repairer  (AR).  Ms D says the AR told her it hadnt dealt with that model for years  
and she wasnt covered. 
Ms D called D&G. It couldnt get through to its AR, so told her she could  call out her own 
engineer instead.  D&G said if the repair cost £200  or less she could  pay for it and claim this 
back by providing  an invoice. But, if it was more than £200, shed need to contact D&Gs  
claims department. 
During the call Ms D said the policy wasnt appropriate  for her, as it doesnt cover her boiler.  
D&G said it does cover  her and it has given her the option to pay and claim, but it would 
raise a complaint  about whether the policy was right for her. 
Ms D organised for an engineer to inspect her boiler, which D&G has paid for. The 
engineers report  says the boiler was at risk. It had a fault,  which couldnt be fully checked, 
as the burner tray couldnt be removed due to a mangled nut. It said functional parts werent 
available, the appliance wasnt safe and the fuse carrier was damaged on the boiler  
isolation. Ms D says she went for a replacement boiler based on this, costing her £4,102.  
She thinks D&G should pay towards this.
D&G sent Ms D its final response letter, which she says she didnt receive. This said shed 
been given wrong information by the AR and it offered  to pay her £25 in compensation for 
this. Following this, Ms D wrote  to D&G  saying  shed cancelled her direct debit and asking 
what the £25 in her account was for. D&G  didnt  respond and reinstated  the direct debit, 
taking two more  monthly  premium payments.  Ms D says she had to cancel the direct  debit 
with her bank again. D&G said it doesnt know why it didnt respond to Ms Ds letter, but that 
it was possibly due to a cross-over  with the post. And it has since refunded  the two 
premiums it mistakenly took.
Ms D complained to our service. Our investigator said Ms D hadnt sent the invoice D&G 
needed for it to consider her claim,  so it wasnt obliged to meet  it. And that D&Gs payment 
of £25 compensation made up for the service  failings.  
Ms D asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said shed  like D&G to pay the 
policy limit for her boiler. Ms D says by the time the engineer  attended her boiler it sounded 
like it might explode and wasnt  heating  water or radiators anymore. She says the engineer  
told her he couldnt  remove the burner tray, as if he did the boiler would stop and wouldnt be 
repairable. Ms D also says he told her to get a new boiler, as hers was old and beyond 
repair. 
D&G says the engineers report isnt enough  to show  she has a valid claim under the policy. 
It doesnt say why the boiler was written  off. And, if the burner tray couldnt be removed due 
to, for example, corrosion the claim might not be covered. D&G said it hasnt  been  able to 
speak to the engineer that attended for data protection reasons. And it wasnt  an engineer 
from D&G  that attended, so its not responsible for his actions.
Ref: DRN21572072This complaint was passed to me for a decision.  I didnt agree with our investigator and felt 
the complaint  should be upheld. So I issued a provisional decision. In that decision,  I said:
Ms Ds policy  terms and conditions say D&G will always  (subject to the terms and 
conditions of this policy) repair your product, unless we cannot repair  it; we cannot obtain the 
spare parts to repair  it; the repair cost would  exceed the cost of the current purchase price of 
a new product; or repairing  it would exceed  the policy limit (see claims limit above);...
It goes on to say: the most well pay in total for repairs  and/or towards a replacement  for the 
product is £1,500. 
When Ms D spoke with D&G,  it clearly explained what  cost of repairs  she could have carried 
out without its authorisation. So when Ms D knew it was going to cost her more than this 
I think she should have  understood she needed  to get in touch with D&Gs claims 
department in the way it asked her to, before  going ahead with the replacement.
But I think Ms Ds still thought her boiler  wasnt covered by D&G after this call. So, while  
D&G had told Ms D she was covered, I think its ARs mistake was still impacting on Ms D, 
causing confusion. And it seems likely this is why Ms D didnt contact  D&Gs  claims 
department before having her boiler replaced.  
Ive taken into account that if Ms D had done  this D&G might  have  been  able to get more 
information from the engineer or see if its AR could attend with a view to repairing the boiler.  
Especially, as the policy terms  say D&G  will always do a repair if it can. But D&G missed  its 
chance to see if the boiler was repairable itself when  its AR wouldnt go to Ms Ds property  
and gave her incorrect  information. And its unlikely D&G will be able to get clarification from 
her engineer now given  the time thats passed.  
So because of the lack of information in the report, I need to make my findings on the basis  
of what I think is most likely. And I think the information available is enough for me to say its 
fair and reasonable for D&G to pay Ms Ds claim.  The engineers  report  shows the boiler 
problem was more  than just not being able to remove the burner tray to find the fault. It also 
said the boiler wasnt safe, parts  arent all available and a fuse carrier was damaged. So it 
seems to me it was very unlikely the boiler could  be repaired.
Ive thought about what D&G said about  the claim not being covered  if the burner tray 
couldnt be removed  due to, for example, corrosion, but the engineer  has said the tray 
couldnt be removed  due to a mangled  nut. 
If the boiler couldve been repaired  or parts obtained  to fix it  or if the burner tray couldve 
been removed  in a way it could be refitted  or replaced without impacting on the boiler  I 
wouldve expected  the engineer to do that or say this in their report. As he didnt, I think  its 
most likely the boiler was beyond repair. And I think its fair to rely on the engineers report, 
as hes an independent expert. Ms Ds testimony  about what  the engineer  said supports that 
the boiler was beyond  repair. It was reasonable for Ms D to rely on what he told her, 
considering she wasnt given the option  of D&Gs AR attending instead. That D&Gs AR told 
Ms D it doesnt cover  her boiler model and hasnt for years also suggests functional  parts  
might no longer be available, in the way the engineer said.  
Ref: DRN21572073Taking everything into account,  I think its most  likely Ms Ds boiler couldnt be repaired and 
parts werent available.  This is enough  to satisfy the policy terms, so D&G should pay Ms Ds 
claim. And it also means  the fact Ms D didnt contact D&G before having her boiler  replaced  
hasnt prejudiced its position. That is  if it had sent one of its own engineers or approved  
repairers, I think its most likely they too wouldve concluded the boiler  had to be replaced. 
And this, along with the fact the policy provides cover for a replacement boiler up to a limit 
when a boiler cant be repaired,  means I think its fair and reasonable for D&G to pay up to 
limit in this particular case. 
The policy limit is £1,500. The policy says D&G can pay this in cash  or vouchers. But, as 
Ms D has already paid for her new boiler, D&G should pay her cash. The policy  allows for 
D&G to deduct any unpaid premium for the remainder of the policy  term. If there are any 
premiums remaining unpaid on this policy, D&G  may deduct this from the £1,500 policy  limit.
Finally, Ive considered  Ms Ds comments about the service shes received.  D&G has 
recognised its AR gave  Ms D incorrect information.  And it put this right by reassuring her 
cover was in place and offering for her to pay and claim. D&G also made reasonable 
attempts to contact  its AR to find out why itd told Ms D what it had.
However, D&G didnt  respond to Ms Ds letter telling it shed cancelled the direct debit and 
asking what the £25 was for. It also incorrectly reinstated her direct  debit, which  meant Ms D 
had to send another letter  and get in touch with her bank  to cancel payment again. I think  
this caused Ms D frustration and inconvenience.  To make up for this, I currently think D&G 
should pay her a further £75 compensation, on top of the £25 already paid.
I asked both parties to respond before I issued my final decision.  Ms D agreed  with the 
decision. D&G didnt  dispute the findings,  but asked  for clarification on what it was expected  
to pay 8% interest on, and explained  it wouldnt be able to provide an interest  certificate.
The case  has now come  back to me to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither side has made any substantial objections to the findings  I made  in my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from the conclusions, and for the reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision above. So Im going to tell D&G to pay Ms Ds claim and pay further 
compensation of £75.
D&G has asked for clarification on what it should be paying 8% interest on. This should be 
the policy claim limit (which I understand to be £1,500) less any remaining premiums due 
from the date Ms D paid for the new boiler  until the date it pays her the settlement.
Ive also noted  D&Gs  comments that it cant provide a tax certificate for Ms D. This is 
something its required to do, and is quite  standard within decisions we issue. Ive never had 
a business tell me it cant do so before. If D&G  has a problem with issuing this certificate, 
and Ms D requests  one, Id suggest  it speaks  with its legal  department about its obligations 
here.
Ref: DRN21572074my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint and require Domestic & General Insurance 
Plc to:
Pay Ms Ds claim for the maximum benefit  available under the policy  in line with 
remaining terms and conditions less any unpaid premiums. 
Pay interest on the above amount due to Ms D at 8% per annum simple from the 
date Ms D paid for her boiler to be replaced to the date it makes the payment. If D&G 
considers its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should  tell Ms D how much its taken off. It should also give Ms D a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Pay Ms D a further £75 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157207