K821x#15 complaint
Mr H has complained that Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society  Limited caused a 
substantial delay while transferring his pension  policy. He says that this caused him financial 
loss and unnecessary  stress and inconvenience.
background
Mr H was planning to take early  retirement in 2017  and sought  advice from his normal 
adviser at another pension provider. He was advised that he should transfer his two existing 
Royal London personal pension policies into another pension plan which would allow  him to 
start income  drawdown. 
His adviser contacted  Royal London  for full policy details  on both policies which  were  
provided in June 2017.  The discharge  forms for Mr Hs policy ending *736 (policy  A) were 
completed and returned  on 24 July 2017. Royal London asked for confirmation  that financial 
advice had been given regarding the transfer and this was provided  on 8 September  2017. 
The transfer of policy A went ahead. 
The adviser contacted Royal London on 27 November 2017 to request updated values for 
Mr Hs policy  ending *470 (policy B). No figures were received so the adviser  contacted 
Royal London again on 13 December 2017 and updated transfer figures and discharge 
forms were sent on 22 December 2017.   It seems that these were not received by Mr H as 
he called  Royal London again on 22 January 2018  asking for the forms and complaining 
about the delay.  Royal  London sent Mr H copies of the forms they had sent in December on 
23 January 2018.  
A Royal London representative  called  Mr H on 26 January 2018 and advised that he could  
complete the transfer on a non-advised basis, but Mr H advised  that he had now received 
and would complete the forms. The representative advised that his adviser would need to 
sign a declaration that they had given financial  advice before the transfer could be 
completed and the transfer request was on hold until that was done. 
Royal London then received an electronic request to transfer policy B on 30 April 2018. The 
adviser had also sent paper discharge forms on 1 May 2018 and these were  accepted.  
Royal London advised again, on 30 May 2018,  that the letter  confirming that financial advice 
had been given was still outstanding. 
Finally, on 24 July 2018, Royal London,  when  asked, said that it did have all the paperwork 
necessary as the confirmation of financial advice that they were  waiting  for was not actually 
necessary.  The  transfer request was resubmitted and the transfer  payment  was made the 
following day.
Mr H complained about the length  of time it had taken to complete the transfer for policy  B. 
He said this had caused him stress  and financial difficulty as he had been unable  to access  
the funds via his drawdown policy. In turn, this had meant that Mrs H had been forced to 
delay her retirement by a year to maintain their income.  Royal London accepted  
responsibility for the delay since 30 April 2018  and offered  £300  compensation for this. Mr H 
felt that the delay was considerably longer  than Royal London were accepting  and referred  
the complaint  to this service. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. In her 
opinion, there were two delays to the transfer  process caused  by Royal  London. The first 
Ref: DRN22021662delay was in issuing the transfer pack following the advisers request of 27 November 2017, 
a delay of 9 working days beyond what would have been reasonable. The second delay was 
caused by the incorrect  information given on 26 January 2018, that confirmation of advice 
was required before the transfer could be completed, this was not recognised to be incorrect  
until 24 July 2018   a delay of 112 working  days. 
Overall, the adjudicator calculated that these  two delays together  amounted to 121 working 
days and asked that Royal London  calculate  and pay redress  on that basis.  In addition she 
asked that Royal London pay Mr H £300  for distress and inconvenience. 
Royal London didnt  agree with the adjudicator, saying that as the transfer  value of policy  B 
actually increased  during  the time of the delay, they did not believe that Mr H was financially 
disadvantaged and so they should not have to pay any redress above  the payment  for 
distress.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators assessment. Im satisfied  that with a reasonable level of 
service Royal  London  ought to have  dealt with this transfer more quickly.  The adjudicator 
identified two specific periods of delay  amounting  to 121 days in total. That seems to be a 
fair assessment to me. 
I note that Royal London  has said that the plan increased in value over the period before it 
was transferred. Whilst its true that this may mean Mr H hasnt  suffered  any actual loss, Im 
not aware that Royal London has actually made the comparison  the adjudicator 
recommended. The fact that there  was growth doesnt necessarily mean Mr H would not 
have been better off if the transfer  had gone ahead  sooner, as it should have done.
Its also clear  that Mr H will have suffered inconvenience and a level of distress.  Im satisfied 
that an award of £300 is fair.
I uphold this complaint.  Royal London must  calculate any loss as set out below.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if Royal London had dealt with the transfer more  speedily.
what should  Royal London do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Royal London must:
Establish the transfer value of the pension policy had the transfer taken place 121 
days earlier  the notional value. 
Apply index growth to the notional transfer  value to the actual  date of transfer  (a 
period of 121 days)   the fair value.
Calculate any loss, the difference between the fair value and the actual value. If the 
Ref: DRN22021663actual value is greater  than the fair value then no compensation is payable.
Royal London should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Royal London  should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Royal London is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension  plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr H £300 for the distress and upset caused by the delay.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Royal  London deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Royal  London should give Mr H 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
pension 
policystill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
notional 
transferdate of actual  
transferThe same  
benchmark
actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value. 
fair value
This is the notional transfer value if the transfer  had taken place 121 days earlier together 
with growth had it produced a return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ref: DRN22021664Mr H wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
 Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Royal London Mutual Insurance Society should 
pay the amount  calculated as set out above.
Royal London Mutual Insurance Society should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr H in a 
clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 September 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
 ..
Ref: DRN2202166