K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains she was mis-sold life and Critical Illness  Cover  (CIC)  by Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC. She says the cover  was something  she didnt  need. 
background 
In 2003, Mrs J was advised to take out life cover for £40,000 over term of 20 years.  She was 
married at the time and expecting a child. She was also employed  as a teacher. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  She 
said the recommendation was suitable. 
Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators view. She said the adviser misrepresented  the policy 
suggesting that itd still meet her needs in 21 years, even though her earnings  would  
increase over time,  rendering the policy unnecessary.  
Our adjudicator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. She said the recommendation  was made  based on her circumstances at the time and 
there was nothing to suggest that her circumstances wouldnt change  in the future. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs J says Im not persuaded 
that the recommendation was unsuitable.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, its important for me to note I recognise  Mrs Js 
strength of feeling  about this matter.
She has provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs J and the business,  and reach  what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I note Mrs J feels the advisor should  have taken into account her employee benefits when 
making the recommendation. I agree with our adjudicator that employee benefits arent 
Ref: DRN29392482generally regarded  as an adequate replacement for life cover,  because  these benefits  arent  
guaranteed. 
It wouldve  been the case that employee  benefits (such as death  in service benefits)  would 
have only been  available  for the duration that Mrs J remained  in that particular employment, 
whereas the policy  would continue to run as long as the premiums were paid. I appreciate if 
she left she could obtain insurance elsewhere, but the recommended policy provided 
immediate cover for as long as the premiums  were paid.
With the power of hindsight, I can see that Mrs J remained employed as a teacher and had 
no intention of changing career but I dont  think this could have been known at the time. 
There was nothing at the time to guarantee that her circumstances wouldnt change. 
And just because Mrs J had employee benefits  doesnt mean  the recommendation was 
unsuitable. People have all manner of reasons for wanting additional insurance. I note it was 
recorded Mrs J wanted cover in addition to her employee benefits to care for her expectant  
child in the event of her death. It was recorded in the fact find I just feel that I need  to top up 
my life cover as we are now expecting baby.
Im persuaded that the recommendation took into account her employee benefits,  and was 
complimentary to it rather than being duplication  or over insurance. I note it was recorded 
Mrs J wanted an additional £40,000 cover and the premiums were  affordable.  It may explain 
why Mrs J maintained the policy until 2018.  
Im aware she had a good job, some money and possible help that she could have got from 
her family. But again there were no guarantees that her financial/family situation wouldnt 
change over time and that at some  point she wouldnt be able to deal with her finances. 
Im satisfied Mrs J had sufficient time over the course of three meetings to decide if she 
wanted to go ahead  with the policy. 
I note the business offered Mrs J £125 for the delay in dealing with her complaint. On 
balance I think its fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mrs J will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator.  
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what she wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint and give her 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939248