K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited  handled 
his claim under his motor  policy  following  an accident.
background
Mr B was involved  in an accident  with a lorry, which was turning into a side road.  Mr B 
vehemently denied  the accident  was his fault and provided dash cam footage from his car as 
evidence. 
LV and the other  drivers insurers, which is also underwritten by LV but is a separate 
company, decided each party was 50% liable. So Mr B paid only 50% of his excess  for the 
repair costs to his car. His No Claims Discount (NCD) was also protected.
Mr B didnt accept that LVs outcome on liability  was reasonable so he complained. LV didnt 
change its stance, so Mr B brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think  LV had 
done anything  wrong. Mr B disagreed  so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Ive read the extensive amount of correspondence and information that Mr B has provided to 
us. Ive also viewed  the dash cam footage. I understand and appreciate how strongly  Mr B 
feels about this issue and I understand my decision will be deeply disappointing to him.
First, as Mr B understands,  neither  this service nor I decide who is at fault for causing an 
accident, as thats  a matter for the courts. We merely look to see if LV came to its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
As Mr B has identified his policy like almost all motor policies provides that the insurer has 
the right to take over and deal with any claim as it thinks fit. Here in LVs policy,  its about the 
percentage of being successful and LV says it wont provide any assistance if theres a less 
than 50% chance  of succeeding with the claim and it would be unreasonable to advise any 
private paying client in the same circumstances to pursue the claim. This type of clause 
permitting the insurer to have the final say is standard  across  the motor insurance industry 
so I dont find it unusual.  This essentially means though the final word on whether or not to 
pursue the matter to court rests  with LV and not Mr B.
Here LV viewed the dash cam footage, which  Mr B says has a time delay in noting  the 
speed. However, LVs view on this, which it explained to Mr B, was that it raises issues  
against Mr B, which would be difficult to defend. I dont consider this to be unreasonable and 
it shows LV carefully  reviewed this evidence, which I also consider  to be reasonable. It also 
obtained the police report, which sadly didnt have any detail  from the other driver so it didnt 
provide any further  evidence  directly  in Mr Bs favour. 
The other drivers insurers policy is also underwritten by LV, but its a different policy and 
with different terms, which means  the underwriting guide would be different to that of Mr Bs 
policy with LV.   Mr B makes much of this, but I consider  this is very common in the motor 
Ref: DRN26393062insurance industry, often  with both parties being insured by the same  insurer  with the same  
underwriting guide  and policy terms. Motor insurers are carefully regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to deal with issues like this with the greatest care to ensure each 
party is afforded the appropriate service. I disagree with Mr B that theres been anything 
untoward in LVs handling of his claim given the other drivers insurer  is also underwritten by 
LV.
The other drivers insurers decided eventually to accept their insured was 50% liable,  leaving 
Mr B also 50% liable. This was after LV agreed Mr B should only pay 50% of his excess as a 
gesture of good  will. This shows me first the other  drivers insurers  were working 
independently of LV in the matter and secondly that LVs original stance on the matter  was 
also one, which the other  drivers insurers came to. 
As Mr Bs NCD was protected, it hasnt  been stepped back  as a result of this issue.  
However, even if Mr B had not been  held at all liable for this accident, many  other  insurers  
would rate him adversely,  simply  because he was involved in an accident in any event. 
So to conclude, I consider LV didnt do anything wrong  as it considered  the evidence  
carefully and came  to its own decision as its entitled  to do under the policy terms.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639306