K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about the mortgage arrangements he was advised  to take in 1989. The 
mortgage was with Barclays Bank Plc. Mr T originally said to us that:
£10,000 of the mortgage advance was for repairs to the property.  He believes he 
would have been better  advised to take this borrowing  as a short-term loan, thereby 
saving interest;
he was told that the monthly payment of £280  covered everything to do with the 
house, including insurance. He noted  that the insurance arrangements were  removed 
from the monthly payments a few years later and he had to replace the policy;
the endowment  policy that he took out around  the same time wasnt sold to him by 
Barclays for his mortgage. He took it out himself  for his own purposes, which means 
that he doesnt have a way of repaying  the capital owing on the mortgage;
he has tried to talk to Barclays about paying off the mortgage but has been  unable 
to because he cant pass security on the phone and has been  unable to arrange an 
appointment in a branch.
background
In 1989 Mr T arranged  a mortgage  to buy a new home. The mortgage was for £33,000 over 
25 years  and was on an interest-only/endowment basis.
Barclays sold Mr T a mortgage endowment policy as the repayment vehicle for the 
mortgage. This policy had the same target value as the amount of the mortgage and the 
same term.  Mr T paid into the policy until mid-2001. Following that no further premiums were 
received. The policy matured in 2014  and the proceeds were paid to Mr T.
Mr Ts mortgage  term ended in 2014.  By 2016 when I originally considered this complaint, 
no payments had been made to the mortgage  since 2014 and the balance had increased  
because the outstanding debt was still attracting interest. Mr T made  a substantive  capital 
payment toward  the debt in October  2016.
Following my original consideration of this case I issued a provisional decision on 
2 September 2016. Below is an excerpt detailing my conclusions  and reasons for reaching 
them.
I have noted that Mr T has said that the endowment that was arranged  in 1989 wasn't linked 
to his mortgage. However, the evidence I have indicates that it was. I say this as the policy 
exactly matched the mortgage in amount and term. Also,  there is a note on Barclays system  
from March 2014  of Mr T calling it to ask whether the endowment  policy was expected to 
clear most of the mortgage.  On that basis I have reviewed the different parts of Mr Ts 
complaint based  on him having  been  sold an endowment-backed mortgage  in 1989.
Mr T has said that he thinks that the mortgage  he was sold disadvantaged him because it 
was more expensive  than a repayment  mortgage would have been. Having done an 
assessment of the costs,  it does appear that the endowment  and interest-only  mortgage 
combined was slightly  more expensive than an equivalent repayment mortgage.  However,  
the fact that the endowment mortgage  was more expensive doesnt mean that it was 
unsuitable. At the time Mr T arranged this mortgage  endowment policies were expected to 
Ref: DRN22194792perform well and either  be able to pay off the mortgage early  or provide an additional lump  
sum after it was repaid.  Many consumers were happy to pay for this possibility.
As both parties are aware, I dont have  any of the documentation from 1989. Barclays has 
said that it doesnt have any and Mr T isnt willing to provide  me with a copy of what  he has. 
This makes assessing the advice given to Mr T more difficult.  Choosing  a more  expensive 
mortgage option doesnt automatically make such an option  unsuitable.  Suitability  of a 
mortgage is entirely dependent on the consumers  needs and circumstances. In this case I 
have very limited information.  However,  given that Mr T had arranged  the same  type of 
mortgage previously  and there dont appear to have been any affordability issues at the time 
it was taken out, it doesnt look like the mortgage  was inappropriate for him.
I note that from the late 1990s Mr T has had difficulty at times paying his mortgage. 
However, given the amount of time that passed  before  these difficulties arose, I dont think  
that it can be blamed on the mortgage being unsuitable for him or unaffordable at the time of 
the sale. It would appear  that the financial difficulties have arisen because of changes in Mr 
Ts circumstances. Unfortunately,  once  a mortgage is in arrears,  the overall cost of it will 
increase because of additional interest, fees and charges. This seems to be the reason that 
Mr Ts mortgage  balance is at the level it is. The effect of arrears would have been the same 
whether the mortgage had been arranged on a repayment or an interest-only  basis.
Mr T has said that the mortgage borrowing was made up of two elements - £23,000 to buy 
the property and £10,000 to complete significant structural works  identified in the survey.  He 
has said that he now thinks that he would have been better  off if he had been told to take the 
money used for the repair works  as a personal  loan over a shorter period.  He has based  this 
on the assumption that interest rates for a personal loan would have been in the region of
9%.
Interest rates in 1989 for unsecured personal loans werent in the region of 9%. Given  that 
Mr T was paying 13.5% interest on his mortgage  and rates were trending upwards, an 
unsecured loan would have cost significantly  more.  The interest rate information  I have been 
able to find indicates  that personal loans had interest rates  in the region of 18% or higher.
Furthermore, Barclays has told us that if the loan had been  advanced as the purchase price 
and a home improvement loan, it would have  been set up as two sub-accounts. It wasnt  and 
so it believes that the whole of the advance  was to purchase the property.
Again the lack of information from the time makes it difficult  to know  what the situation  
actually was. However, Mr T has told us that his previous mortgage was supported  by an 
endowment policy and was for £10,000.  This means  that his new borrowing was more than 
three times the amount  of his previous  mortgage.  Given how much more per month  taking a 
an unsecured loan of £10,000 over a shorter term would have cost, alongside the significant 
increased cost in overall lending, I think its unlikely that he would have gone for this option 
at the time.
Mr T has said that he has been trying to make this complaint since 2012  and that during 
2014 and 2015 he contacted Barclays numerous  times but received no responses to letters 
or telephone  calls.  Barclays  records  dont  reflect this, although I accept that they only detail 
the contact with its head office departments,  not visits  to branches. That said,  the records  do 
show that Mr T was trying  to talk to Barclays about his mortgage from shortly  after the term 
ended.
Ref: DRN22194793Having considered all of the information about the communication problems it seems that 
there are two key things  that have caused them. The first is that the department  Mr T needs 
to speak to only works Monday to Friday. Unfortunately, the nature of Mr Ts job means that 
he finds it very difficult to find the time to speak to Barclays during the week.
That said, I note that when he made  Barclays aware  of this problem in early  2015, it 
arranged for someone from the relevant  department to call him on a Saturday. Unfortunately  
Mr T wouldnt  go through  the identity checks needed to discuss  his account. It seems  that 
around that time he was concerned about  scams and was unwilling to give information over 
the phone. As Mr T was unpleasant to its member  of staff and eventually hung up on her, it 
doesnt look like Barclays tried to contact Mr T at a weekend  again. It continued to try to deal 
with things during  the working week.
It also appears  that either Barclays  tried to speak to Mr T, or Mr T managed to telephone 
Barclays, on many occasions. However,  there were times when  the calls werent convenient 
for Mr T and Barclays didnt get an answer  when it called back at an arranged  time. Also, it 
appears to be that Mr T has concerns about providing information over the telephone.  There 
are quite a number of attempted calls to Mr T that were unsuccessful because  Mr T wouldnt 
answer security questions. I note Mr T has said he failed the security, but thats not what  
Barclays notes from the times say. I accept that it may be that Mr T declined to answer 
security questions because he believed that he would fail them.
There was one occasion where Barclays promised  Mr T that it would call him back because  
its systems were causing problems and it wasnt able to help him at the time.  However, 
those problems also prevented it from calling him back. This was unfortunate, but it did write  
to him at the time and explain. It also offered to arrange for a member of staff to be available  
on a Saturday  if he told it when would be convenient. It doesnt look like Mr T took it up on 
this offer.
I also note that Mr T agreed to meet with a field agent to try and sort out the situation  with his 
mortgage. However, part of that process  is normally  an assessment of income and 
expenditure, so that Barclays can establish whether a consumer is able to make  a financial 
arrangement to pay their mortgage or not. It appears from Barclays notes that Mr T didnt  
complete this document or put forward any ideas about dealing with his mortgage going  
forward.
Mr T has provided copies of some letters that he wrote to Barclays. It appears that not all of 
them were  about  his mortgage  some were about another  matter to do with his bank 
accounts. I am not considering that issue, so I have  only looked into the ones to do with his 
mortgage. It looks  like Barclays only received one of the letters and it was late in responding 
to it. Its offered Mr T £100 as an apology for this delay and, in the circumstances, I think 
thats reasonable.
Having looked  at everything that Barclays and Mr T have said about the communication 
problems I think a lot of them stem  from the difficulty Mr T has making calls during the week. 
It also seems that hes not keen on dealing with matters  over the telephone.  Unfortunately, 
because hes overdue to pay the capital on his mortgage and hes not making  any form of 
payment toward  the debt, by telephone is the most  appropriate way of dealing  with the 
matter.  I also cant fault Barclays for trying  to speak  to Mr T about the issue   it needs 
resolving and it appears that Barclays is open to finding  a way to do, other than 
repossessing the property.
Ref: DRN22194794Given that Barclays  does  appear to be willing to make arrangements for Mr T to discuss  this 
matter on a Saturday, I would suggest  that he attempts to do so. This would also allow him to 
have assistance  from his partner if he wishes to.
Mr T didnt  accept my provisional  decision and made further comment,  including confirming 
that the service  issues I had considered  were  not and had never  been  part of his complaint. 
He asked that my further consideration be restricted to solely  the mis-selling issue. 
Before I had the opportunity to reconsider the complaint in light of Mr Ts further comments,  
he informed us that he no longer wanted our involvement. He instructed us to close  our file 
on the matter, which  we did.
In early 2018 Mr T requested that we send him a copy of all the data we held on him. 
Following provision of this information,  Mr T asked that his complaint be re-opened. He 
provided further comment and evidence that he wanted considered. These further  
submissions included comment on the service issues I had considered  in my provisional 
decision. In light of Mr Ts earlier statement that these issues  were not part of his complaint, 
our investigator sought confirmation from Mr T of whether he did want  them considered 
further. Mr T said that they may as well be.
In relation to the mis-selling issue, Mr T has said the following:
He believes that we have fabricated evidence in relation to the use of the £10,000 of the 
mortgage advance  that he states  was not needed  for the house  purchase.  He says there 
were no significant  structural issues and provided  the pre-purchase  valuation to evidence  
this. He has also said in response to a telephone  note on our file from early 2016, where 
it was recorded  Mr T said the money was used for a new kitchen and other repairs, that 
this is not accurate  either. He says that the kitchen was serviceable  and wasnt replaced. 
Mr T has clarified recently  that the money  was spent on fixtures and fittings  (such  as 
furniture), decorating  and a holiday. Most recently he has also said that around  half the 
money was used to purchase a van.
Mr T also said that he and his partner didnt need the additional £10,000  and he was 
convinced by the mortgage adviser  to take it.
The £10,000 should have been taken  as a home improvement loan over three or five 
years. He says this wouldnt  have been taken as a personal  loan, but rather as secured 
lending against  the house.  As such the interest rates would have been lower  than the 
18% interest rate I had suggested  a personal loan would have attracted. 
The mortgage cost would  have been lower as it would have been for less money.  Also, 
he and his then partner both had good  incomes  and could have afforded  what the 
£10,000 over a short term would have cost.
In relation to his earlier  comments about  the endowment policy  not being linked to the 
mortgage, he has confirmed that this is wrong. The endowment policy was compulsory 
under the mortgage  terms and conditions and was always linked to the mortgage. 
He has also said that the endowment mortgage  being more expensive isnt part of his 
mis-selling complaint,  but it is factual.  However, his natural  instincts would have been to 
take the cheaper option. 
Ref: DRN22194795Mr T said that when the mortgage  was arranged the endowment policy  was paid as part 
of the money  he paid to Barclays each month.  He believes that it stopped  being  paid 
because Barclays reassigned the policy to him. He says it didnt tell him it had done  this.
Mr T has referred  to mention of an indemnity policy in the documentation. He says the 
cost of this was included in the monthly  mortgage payment. He says this was detached  
from the mortgage without his knowledge.
The below excerpt from a 1989 document  was put forward as evidence  of the monthly  
payment.
A statement of account was provided.  This doesnt include any identification to show  
who produced  it, but it seems  likely  given  the content, that it was the conveyancing 
solicitor. It details  that the existing  property was being sold for £37,000 and there was a 
mortgage of £12,562.51 to be repaid. 
The new property was detailed  as costing £46,000 with a mortgage of £33,000 
associated with it. (Therefore it required a deposit  of £13,000.)
There were then costs detailed, such as solicitors  fees and land registry  fees,  totalling  
£1,888.43.
He had given  us documents from 1989 onwards.  Why was Barclays not being penalised 
for not keeping them  as he believes they should have been stored until the end of the 
mortgage contract?
Barclays is correct that the loan amount  should  have been  set up as a sub-account and 
with a shorter term. Therefore, the mortgage  was clearly mis-sold.
In relation to his previous mortgage,  he doesnt  consider  this was relevant to this case. 
This is because the circumstances when that mortgage was taken out were different.  In 
addition, he says that he wasnt told it was endowment backed and he has no idea what 
happened to the policy. 
In relation to the service issues, Mr T made the following  comments:
What I said about  the Saturday telephone  call is wrong. He says that both he and his 
partner had a long conversation with the person. The call ended at the instigation of the 
member of staff. This was because the member of staff needed to check  something. A 
call back was promised, but never  happened. Mr T named  the member of staff he and 
his partner had spoken to.
With regard to the field agent appointment  mentioned in the provisional  decision, at that 
point his benefits had been  stopped  so he had no income.  As such, he saw no point  in 
completing the income/expenditure  form. He also said that no advice or help was given 
on how to resolve  any issues and that he felt rather let down  by the process.
A free advisory organisation had told him not to make any further payments towards  the 
mortgage as to do so would  be seen  as accepting the debt.
Ref: DRN22194796The only reason payments  werent made was because he failed security.  Mr T also said 
that he was told dont  worry about it until the policy ends in July when he originally tried 
speaking to Barclays about paying off his mortgage. 
Proof of posting  exists  to evidence the letters  sent to Barclays in 2014 and 2015. Mr T 
again provided a copy  of a proof  of posting  dated 17 March  2014, but unfortunately as 
when previously supplied, the postcode is illegible.
He disagrees that Barclays were  willing  to speak to him on a Saturday.  He made many 
attempts to talk to it and he kept failing security. He repeated that he was told that the 
only option for a face-to-face meeting to discuss the mortgage  had to be in Manchester. 
This was unacceptable. 
The above  are only the comments that relate  directly to the complaint made to this service  in 
2015. Mr T has also raised numerous  other  points and these will be dealt with separately as 
a new complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Ts further 
comments from 2016 and 2019, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
I would firstly like to assure Mr T that I am aware that the mortgage  was applied for and set 
up with a lender  other than Barclays. That lender subsequently became part of Barclays and 
it is responsible for the matters being complained  of, that is why I have referred to Barclays  
throughout.
Mr T is unhappy  that in my provisional  decision I said that £10,000  of the funds  released  to 
him were to be used  for structural works to his new home. He has provided the valuation 
from the time which says that there were some works to complete,  but they would only cost 
£1,500. He says that there  were  no significant works to be done. The money  was used for 
other things.  
I am sorry  if Mr T was upset by my summary of the use the disputed money was put to. 
However, this was based on Mr Ts own explanation  to this service in November 2015. He 
did change his recollections in a later telephone  call in February 2016, where he said it was 
used for a new kitchen  and other  works on the house. However, when accounts vary, I tend 
to take the first explanation as the most likely to be accurate. I note that Mr T has, since  his 
complaint has been re-opened, clarified  further about the use of the money.  Variously this 
was spent on fixtures and fittings (furniture  and wardrobes), some decorating and a holiday, 
and later he confirmed  that around  half of the money was spent on the purchase  of a large 
box van.
Its not clear what the money Mr T remembers spending was actually spent on. However,  I 
dont think it really matters in the scheme of things.  What  matters is whether the evidence 
indicates that Mr T only needed  £23,000  to purchase the property and the remainder of the 
mortgage funds  was for other purposes, or whether the advance was entirely  for purchase 
purposes. The former situation would mean that the lending arrangements were set up 
incorrectly.
Ref: DRN22194797It remains Barclays position  that if some of the money had been for purposes  other  than 
purchasing the property,  the mortgage would have been set up as two accounts  one for 
the purchase monies and one for the home improvement or homeowner  (depending on its 
use) loan. I accept that this is the case due to the application of tax relief on purchase 
advances. 
The only new evidence relating to the money surrounding the purchase  of the property is the 
solicitors statement of account Mr T has recently  provided. This shows that he purchased  
the property for £46,000 and took out a mortgage  of £33,000 to do so. Given  the purchase 
price, borrowing £33,000 would be in the normal range of borrowing to do so. In addition,  I 
note that after all the expenses the solicitor has detailed on the document were deducted, it 
would have meant that Mr T would have received just under £10,000 from the sale of the 
previous property  slightly less than he remembers receiving to spend  as he wished.
I think it more  likely that the entire amount  of the mortgage Mr T arranged was for the 
purchase of the property,  but the evidence isnt definitive after so long. However,  even if 
Mr Ts recollections  are correct and Barclays incorrectly  set up the mortgage account, I am 
still not persuaded that I would be able to find that the alternative arrangements  he now 
thinks he should have  had would have been affordable. 
Mr T has said that arranging the £10,000 loan would have been affordable as he and his 
partner at the time both had good jobs and incomes.  Firstly, as Mr Ts partner wasnt a party  
to the mortgage,  her income wouldnt have been  taken into account for affordability  
calculations by the lender. Indeed, its entirely plausible that she would have  negatively  
affected the calculations as all those living in the property would likely have been  considered  
dependent for the purposes  of the affordability assessment. 
Mr Ts mortgage  was on an interest-only  basis. If part of it should have been a home  
improvement or homeowner loan which could also have been  on an interest  only basis. 
However, Mr T would  have had to have the money  to repay it at the end of the three  or five 
years he believes he would have  arranged to pay it over. The interest  payment on the 
mortgage was approximately £300  each  month  (as evidenced by the document shown 
above). That wouldnt  have changed  if the mortgage  had been set up as two accounts. Mr T 
would have needed to save almost that amount again each month  to repay the loan after 
three years. Whilst the endowment premium would have been slightly smaller, it would have  
meant greatly increased monthly costs  overall.  Whilst I note Mr Ts comments about his 
income, without any details about  it, I remain  of the view that, if £10,000  of the mortgage 
should have been a separate loan over a short term, whether secured  or unsecured,  
affordability is likely to have been an issue. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  mortgage suitability is a complicated issue. In 
order to assess the suitability of the advice Mr T received, I would  need  much more 
information than either  party has been able to provide. At the very least,  I would need  to 
know Mr Ts income, liabilities, key outgoings  and needs in 1989. Whilst Mr T has been able 
to provide some recollections from the time there isnt sufficient to say that the mortgage 
advice he received in 1989 was unsuitable.  
Mr T has now accepted that the endowment policy arranged through Barclays  was always  
meant to be its repayment vehicle.  He has, however, now said that the endowment policy 
was paid through the monthly payment the lender collected. He has implied that it is 
Barclays fault that the endowment stopped being paid either because it stopped collecting 
the premiums or something went wrong  when the policy was reassigned. 
Ref: DRN22194798This is a new issue that Mr T hasnt previously raised and so should  be taken up with 
Barclays in the first instance.  However,  I feel it would be appropriate to share some factual 
information with Mr T before he does so. Firstly, the original lender never collected 
endowment premiums as part of the mortgage payment on any mortgages.  Secondly, the 
document Mr T provided and is shown above, clearly shows that the amount  he recollects 
paying each month is the mortgage interest  payment only. 
I would also explain that the assignment that Barclays has said would have ended  in the 
early 2000s  doesnt  affect the physical  policy  or how it is paid. It is an arrangement  that gives 
a lender a legal interest in a policy. This means  that it would have been informed if anything  
happened to the policy, for example if the premiums stopped being paid. It would also be 
given first right to any funds paid out from the policy at maturity. Most  lenders stopped  
assigning policies in the 1990s  and over time reassigned any existing ones they had an 
assignment over.
Mr T has asked why Barclays  is not being  penalised  for not keeping  documentation from 
1989. I would firstly say that this service is not the regulator  and as such we do not punish 
businesses. We considered individual complaints on their individual merits. As for the lack of 
original documentation  Barclays  has from the time, there is nothing wrong with that. A lender 
is required to keep  key information about a contract  while that contract  is ongoing and for a 
period afterwards. However,  that doesnt  mean  that it has to keep documentation from the 
time of the sale. Indeed, businesses are encouraged  by legislation  not to keep anything 
other than what is essential.  As such,  I dont think its unreasonable that Barclays  doesnt  
have documentation  from the time of the sale almost  30 years ago. Indeed,  Mr T doesnt 
appear to have kept the key documentation  from the time either   things like the mortgage  
illustration and mortgage offer.  
Mr T has reiterated  that the only reason  payments werent made was because  he couldnt 
pass security, which he has blamed on separate matter to do with his bank account. I have 
re-read Barclays call notes and whilst  I dont  doubt  that this is Mr Ts recollection of why 
conversations werent had, the notes from the times of these calls indicate that was not the 
case in the most part. It was more of a case of it being inconvenient for Mr T to take calls or 
that he was unwilling to engage with the security process. Now I can understand the 
concerns that Mr T has previously expressed about answering questions  in unsolicited  calls, 
but that doesnt make the lack of communication Barclays  fault.
Mr T has said my comments about the attempt  Barclays made to discuss the mortgage on a 
Saturday are wrong. He says that a conversation took place and that it was the Barclays  
member of staff who ended the call. Given Mr Ts recollections of who he had this 
conversation with, I think he is confusing telephone calls. The discussion  he had with the 
individual he named was almost  a week earlier than the Saturday call I referred to. The fact 
that it made  this attempt  and confirmed that it would try again should Mr T want, is clear 
evidence that Barclays was willing to speak to Mr T on a Saturday. To do so would involve 
him agreeing to complete  security, which I accept  he may have been unwilling to do, but that 
is a different matter from whether Barclays was willing  to arrange a member  of staff to speak 
to him.
Mr T has reiterated  that he has proof of posting  for the letters he said he sent to Barclays in 
2014 and 2015. He provided another copy of a proof  of posting dated 17 March 2014, which 
had previously been provided. However, no further proof of posting  for the period  I am 
considering service issues for has been  provided.  I would  also comment  that the postcode 
Ref: DRN22194799on that proof of posting has been  illegible on each copy  provided.  As such I cant  conclude 
anything more about correspondence  received by Barclays than I did in my provisional 
decision. It appears that Barclays  only received  one letter form Mr T.
I have again considered all of the information  I have  about the service issues Mr T raised 
and I am not persuaded that Barclays acted unreasonably in its dealings  with him when it 
was trying to sort out the repayment of the mortgage  at the end of the term. Whilst having  to 
discuss matters by telephone and during the week may not have  been  Mr Ts preference  or 
particularly convenient  for him, I dont think that there was anything  wrong  with Barclays  
having these arrangements. When  it became  aware of the problems Mr T faced in speaking 
during the week  it made alternative  arrangements, but he didnt co-operate with those either.
Overall, I am not persuaded that the mortgage Mr T took in 1989  was unsuitable for him at 
the time or that Barclays acted unreasonably  following  Mr Ts mortgage ending.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
26 March 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2219479