K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) gave him the wrong 
balance on his card.
background
Mr S rang Barclaycard to get the balance on his credit card account.  Hed just made  a large  
payment. And he wanted to clear  the remaining amount. But he was told hed overpaid. And 
the account was £100.84  in credit. Mr S didnt think that was correct.  So he rang Barclaycard 
again in the evening. He was told his account  had a balance of £901.84 outstanding.
Mr S is unhappy with the amount of time he spent  getting the correct figure. And hes 
concerned what couldve  happened if he hadnt double-checked.  Mr S doesnt feel the £50 
compensation offered by Barclaycard is enough.  And he wants to close  his account.
Barclaycard apologised for providing  the wrong balance on the telephone call to Mr S. It 
recognised hed had a poor experience. And it had offered £50 compensation. Barclaycard 
confirmed the account had been closed at Mr Ss request on 16 April 2019.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with Barclaycards  response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Mr S had been given the wrong balance  
during his first call. But Mr S had been given the correct figure later in the day. She agreed 
Barclaycards service  had been  poor. But she felt the compensation paid by Barclaycard  was 
in line with the recommendations our service  would make. So she felt Barclaycard had dealt  
with complaint fairly.
Mr S didnt agree. Hed had poor service  from Barclaycard before. And if he hadnt checked 
again it couldve affected his credit history. So he felt £50 was inadequate  for his time and 
calls. And hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate this mustve been quite stressful for Mr S. Hed made a large payment 
towards his Barclaycard balance. And he wanted to pay of the remaining amount and close  
the account. 
Because Mr S had been unhappy with Barclaycards  service  in the past he wasnt sure hed 
been given the correct  information. So he checked again in the evening  and was given a 
different figure.
I can see Mr S had a balance of £10900.84 on his Barclaycard.  He made  a payment of 
£9999 and rang to confirm what  his remaining balance was. Unfortunately Mr S was told his 
account was now in credit. But his actual balance was £901.84.
Its not clear why Mr S was given the wrong balance during the earlier call. Hes now settled 
the outstanding amount and cancelled the card. But Mr S is concerned what  mightve 
happened if he hadnt rung again to double-check.
Ref: DRN23064562I realise if Mr S had relied  on the original  information  he was given he mightve spent  the 
difference elsewhere. And that mightve caused problems if he was then unable to clear his 
balance. So its to Mr Ss credit that he was monitoring his account  properly - and didnt 
believe hed been told the correct balance.
But I cant ask Barclaycard to compensate Mr S for what mightve been. We award what is 
fair and appropriate  based on whats actually happened.
Barclaycard has accepted  Mr S was given then wrong figure during the first call. But he 
obtained the correct figure  later in the day. And Ive not seen  any evidence of any financial 
loss. 
I know Mr S feels £50 isnt sufficient for his calls and time. Or for the stress  this has caused  
him. But its the sort of award  I wouldve  suggested  if Barclaycard hadnt already offered 
compensation. And its in line with the sort of award our service  normally  makes.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome. But Barclaycard  has apologised for the 
error. And its paid Mr S £50 compensation for giving  him the wrong figure. Based on what  
Ive seen I think Barclaycard has dealt  with the complaint  fairly.  And I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306456