K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2006. Mr L says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading at the time as Aqua, mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Aqua had to make  it clear to Mr L that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr L says he doesnt  remember  PPI being  offered during  the sale and didnt  realise he had 
taken it out.
Aquas records show  Mr L applied for the credit card online, but it hasnt been able to send  
us any evidence of what the online application form wouldve looked like. Aqua  has sent us a 
copy of Mr Ls credit  card agreement though. This had a section with boxes to be ticked  if 
Mr L wanted to take out additional cover, included a box for PPI. And the box for PPI has 
been ticked and Mr L has signed at the bottom of this section to confirm  the selections  
made.
If Mr L didnt want the PPI, I think he couldve not ticked  the box for it or not signed to 
confirm the selections. So, based on the evidence I have, I think  Aqua made it clear to Mr L 
that he had a choice about  the PPI. And that Mr L chose to take it, knowing he didnt have  to.
Aqua didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L, so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information  he needed to decide  if the PPI was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Aqua gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like Mr L 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the policy  couldve 
paid out for significantly longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. So it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr L off taking it 
out.
Mr L has said he tried to cancel the PPI as soon as he found  out he had taken it out and that 
this shows he wouldnt have taken  it out if it had been explained more clearly.  But Ive 
explained above why I think Aqua made Mr Ls choice  about PPI clear  to him and why I think 
the PPI was useful  for him. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mr L off taking it out, and I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold on this basis.
Which means Aqua  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
Ref: DRN23268322But Aqua will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:
Aqua  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Aqua didnt tell Mr L, that was 
unfair.
To put that right, Aqua has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Aqua has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Aqua should also pay back to Mr L any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
Aqua should  re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mr L the difference between  
what Mr L owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Aqua  should  also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2326832