K820x#14complaint
Mr T acquired a new car in September 2015, by means of a 36 month hire agreement  with 
Lex Autolease Ltd, which he returned in September 2018. He complains  that Lex has 
incorrectly charged him for damage  to the car. He wants  this charge removed.
background
Mr Ts car was inspected when he returned it, and bodywork damage was identified. Mr T 
said that he was aware  of this damage  it was smaller than the guideline size, below which 
such damage would be considered fair wear and tear. He added  that, if the dent had been 
bigger than the guideline size, he would have  had a repair done before he returned the car 
(because this tended  to cost less than charged  by Lex).  
Mr T complained to Lex. It said the damage  had been assessed as exceeding acceptable 
return standards. It did not uphold his complaint, which he then referred to us.
Our adjudicator told Lex that the evidence  it had provided to Mr T, which  he had passed on 
to us, was insufficient  to show the damage exceeded the guideline size. In response, Lex 
provided further evidence, which led our adjudicator to conclude that the guideline  had been  
exceeded. 
As a result, our investigator  did not think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagreed,  
and so this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  carefully  at the inspection report prepared for Lex, when Mr T returned his car. 
I have also looked  carefully at the additional  photographic  evidence  provided by Lex.
I find that the evidence we have  received is sufficient  to show that the damage to Mr Ts car 
does exceed the guideline  size for fair wear and tear. This means that I have come to the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761224