K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains, through  a claims management  company about the whole  of life (WOL) plan 
Phoenix Life Limited sold Mr P. The CMC  raised the following complaint points:
It isnt clear why Mr P needed a WOL plan and no alternatives  were discussed
No assessment was made regarding affordability in retirement  which was a clear 
concern as Mr P had no pension  provision.
The adviser didnt  ask Mr P how long he wanted  cover.
background
Mr P took out the plan in 1993 with cover of £50,000. This was reduced on review in 2003  to 
just short  of £33,000 and reduced further on subsequent reviews so that as at 2013 the 
amount of cover was £24,705. Phoenix has said that the plan was reviewed again in 2018  
and 2019 and passed both reviews so the sum assured remains at £24,705. As Mr P is now 
over 65 years of age the plan is subject to annual  reviews.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and in summary made the following 
findings:
The complaint  made  by the CMC doesnt  specifically state that the WOL plan was 
unsuitable but that is what the complaint comes down to.
If that isnt Mr Ps complaint and he wanted  the WOL plan then he has got the cover 
he wanted.
I am satisfied based on the information in the fact find that Mr P had a need for life 
cover.
A reviewable WOL plan wasnt suitable given he had dependent  child who would still 
be dependent on first review when the premium  could  increase or sum assured drop 
 as happened.
The alternative to WOL is term assurance  until the child is 18 or 21 or until Mr P 
retired. 
It isnt clear what term Mr P wouldve had but he wouldnt have had cover beyond  the 
end of this year.
There was no basis for Mr P being paid redress and keeping  the WOL plan as the 
CMC suggested.
Phoenixs proposed  redress  to pay Mr P the premiums he has paid - less the cost of 
life cover  plus interest with the plan to be surrendered with no surrender value 
payable, is reasonable.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Phoenix had nothing  further  to add. The 
CMC referred to other  cases that had been referred  to us where we have decided  that the 
customers should be allowed to keep the plan as well as being repaid the premiums  less 
costs of life cover. It also said that the adviser recommending a WOL plan suggested  Mr P 
wanted cover for life and he has continued to pay the premium  so clearly  wants  the cover as 
long as possible.
In response to this I asked the CMC to clarify  what Mr Ps complaint was as it appeared to 
be suggesting that the WOL plan was suitable.  It then provided a further  response  in which it 
said that Mr P was keen  on cover  for life but it hadnt  been explained he would have to pay 
continually increasing  premiums to keep the same level of cover  or reduce the level of cover. 
It also provided information about  his current health  problems.
Ref: DRN27808722I notified both parties  that I had mistakenly said that Mr P would be 60 in December 2019  
when he was 60 in December 2013. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what  the CMC  has said in response to my provisional decision but I am not 
persuaded to change  my findings. I acknowledge Mr P may have wanted cover for life but I 
still think that if he had been given suitable advice he wouldve  taken  out term assurance 
instead.
If I was satisfied that he wanted  a WOL plan then I would not be upholding his complaint 
given this is what he has got and the option  of a standard  cover WOL plan - which  was less 
likely to need premium  increases  or reduction  to the sum assured - would not have been  
affordable.
So I am satisfied that Mr P shouldve been recommended  a term assurance plan. I 
acknowledge what the CMC has now said about him wanting cover  for as long as possible.  I 
think that may have  led him to having  cover until normal retirement age at 65 rather than his 
expected retirement  age at 60. But he was 65 in December  2018 so at best that means he 
wouldve had cover until last year and would at this time no longer have life cover.
In the circumstances I still think Phoenixs  proposed  redress is reasonable. Namely that it 
should repay Mr P the premiums  less the cost of life cover   together  with simple interest 
at 8% each  year with the WOL plan to be cancelled  with no surrender value being payable.
I have noted what  the CMC  has said about  past decisions of our service  although  I note all 
of the examples it has provided are over three  years  old. But I can see no basis  for Mr P 
being paid redress  on the basis that the WOL plan was unsuitable but then being allowed to 
keep the plan beyond when I think his term assurance wouldve ended. 
Although I cannot  say with certainty  what term he wouldve  had if he had been 
recommended a term assurance Im satisfied it is more than likely this would not have been 
beyond him turning 65  which as I have said was last year.  
Given I think that if he had been  given suitable  advice he would not now have had life cover  
there is no basis for deciding he should be allowed to keep the plan. I acknowledge  he has 
current health problems  and will have difficulty  getting cover now if he cancels the WOL 
plan, and I sympathise  with the position he is now in. But that is the position he is likely  to 
have been in as from the end of last year if he had been given suitable advice.
I acknowledge that if he had taken out a term assurance plan in 1993 it is possible he might  
have taken out an additional plan before  the end of that term assurance  which  he hasnt 
done because  he has a WOL plan. But Im not persuaded this is more  likely than not given  
he has not paid any increased premium on his WOL plan when  it failed a review and has 
simply let the sum assured reduce from £50,000 to £24,705.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN27808723I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2780872