K821x#15complaint
Mr S says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr S had six loans with QuickQuid, two of which were topped up (2a and 4a). This is where  
additional funds  are borrowed during the course  of the loan agreement.  Ive set out some of 
the information QuickQuid provided about  the loans in the table below.
Loan no.
Amount  (£) Date 
approvedDate 
repaidLargest 
repayment (£)
1 400 03/12/2014 31/12/2014 480
2
2a150
10009/12/2016
13/12/2016 22/02/2017188
316
3 300 22/05/2017 03/08/2017 377
4
4a300
5025/08/2017
19/09/2017 21/11/2017377
440
5 400 24/11/2017 21/02/2018 505
6 200 28/04/2018 20/07/2018 246
An adjudicator considered  this complaint already  and recommended  it be upheld  in part. He 
thought QuickQuid shouldnt have approved top-up 4a, or loans 5 and 6. 
QuickQuid didnt agree with the adjudicator and it provided some additional information 
about how its lending  model changed  in March 2015. It said these changes mean the checks  
it carries out before lending are proportionate in every  circumstance.  
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations include the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  Consumer Credit  
sourcebook (CONC). CONC sets out some  of the rules and guidance for consumer credit 
providers such as QuickQuid. Some of the guidance changed on 1 November 2018 and so 
the CONC rules and guidance I refer to here were those in place at the time QuickQuid lent 
to Mr S. CONC  5.3.1G (2) said lenders were required to take reasonable steps to assess  
the customers ability to meet  repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a 
sustainable manner  without the customer incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.
Sustainable was defined  (at CONC 5.3.1G (6)) as the consumer being able to make  
repayments without  undue difficulty.  This meant Mr S ought to have  been  able to make any 
loan repayments  on time,  while meeting his other reasonable  commitments and without 
having to borrow  further to make  the repayments.
In short,  QuickQuid needed to assess Mr S ability to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. 
CONC (e.g. CONC 5.2.3-4G) gave some  guidance  about appropriate  considerations  these 
Ref: DRN23090802include the type, amount and cost of the credit, as well as the financial position of the 
consumer. Its important  to note that these are examples of appropriate factors to take into 
account, not explicit or prescriptive rules.
Nonetheless what the rules and guidance do make clear is that QuickQuid needed to be 
satisfied Mr S could afford to repay  the loans in a sustainable  way. This means QuickQuid 
wasnt simply assessing the risk to it of lending (i.e. the risk of the loan not being properly 
repaid). It also needed to take into account the borrower-focused risk of the loan not being 
sustainable for Mr S.
With this in mind, Ive considered whether QuickQuid did enough  to check whether the loans 
were affordable. And if I find it didnt, Ill go on to consider  whether  proportionate checks 
wouldve suggested the loans were not affordable.
Bearing in mind what Ive said above,  I think proportionate checks  would vary in the 
circumstances of each  loan. So Ive looked at each loan individually.  In looking at each  loan, 
I think its reasonable to say a responsible lender  would require more assurance  the greater 
the risk to the consumer of the loan being unsustainable. So, for example, Id expect a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying carry out more  detailed checks:
the higher  the loan amount; and/or
the lower the consumers income;  and/or
the longer  the lending relationship
In response to our adjudicator QuickQuid has said it isnt prepared  to refund the interest  
Mr S paid for any of the loans it approved after March 2015. In short  QuickQuid seems to be 
saying that because it reviewed its processes and incorporated regulatory changes as it was 
required to, all loans for all customers granted  from March 2015 onwards were  granted  
responsibly and its checks were always proportionate.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow that a firm cannot  have treated any 
consumer unfairly simply because it has been authorised  and is regulated by the FCA. The 
FCA isnt prescriptive about what checks a lender should carry out. As Ive summarised  
above, it gives examples  in CONC about  what might be appropriate. But a lender should still 
bear in mind  both the consumers circumstances and the particulars of the loan in question.  
It doesnt follow that being authorised means doing  the same checks, each and every time, 
is proportionate  whatever the circumstances  of the potential  borrower  and the particulars 
of the loan. In effect, QuickQuid is asking me to pre-judge the complaint on the basis  of its 
current lending model. And Im not prepared to do that.
This is not least because  there are also other considerations which I am required to take into 
account when  making  determinations on complaints.
DISP 3.6.1R says The Ombudsman will determine  a complaint by reference to what is, in 
his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
So, I am required to consider more than the relevant  rules  and guidance.  I must take these 
into account. But I will do so in considering the broader question of whether QuickQuid 
treated Mr S fairly and reasonably.
With this in mind, Ive considered each loan individually  and set out my current findings 
about the proportionality of the checks below.
Ref: DRN23090803loans 1-3
It doesnt appear that there is an ongoing dispute  about these loans   Mr S hasnt contested  
the adjudicators  findings  that the checks were proportionate or that proportionate checks  
wouldnt have suggested they were unaffordable.
I have nonetheless reviewed the loans and have found that the checks  QuickQuid  carried  
out were proportionate.  In summary, QuickQuid  obtained information  from Mr S about his 
income and outgoing (details of this are set out later in my decision) and I think QuickQuid 
was entitled to rely on this information  at this point in the lending  relationship. There  was a 
significant gap of about two years between loans 1 and 2, and a reasonably  large gap 
between loans 2 and 3. So I dont think QuickQuid had reason to think  Mr S was dependent  
on the loans, or wasnt able to repay  them sustainably in this case.
Ive noted that loans  2 and 3 were  balloon payment type loans, where the first two 
payments are interest  only and then the third payment is capital  and interest. Sometimes this 
requires the consumer to save money from month  one and two to make  the largest 
repayment in month  three. But based on the information QuickQuid obtained from Mr S, 
which I think it could reasonably rely on in these instances, it wasnt necessary for Mr S to 
carry over income into month  three  to make  the final repayments for these loans. 
As I think  the checks were  proportionate  and suggested the loans were affordable for Mr S, 
Im not upholding the complaint about  loans 1-3.
loan 4 and the top-up loan 4a
Mr S applied for loan 4 on 25 August  2017, borrowing £300. The loan was repayable in three 
stages: £65 due on 21 September, £70 due on 20 October and then £377  on 21 November. 
Shortly before the first payment was due, Mr S borrowed another  £50. This increased the 
size of the October payment  to £81 and the November payment to £440.  The September  
payment didnt change significantly.
At this time, as throughout the period of lending Im looking  at, QuickQuid asked Mr S to 
provide information  about his employment  and residential status, as well as his income and 
expenditure. QuickQuid  also carried out credit checks   although it hasnt shown  us the full 
results of these checks. QuickQuid obtained a copy of Mr S payslip too.
Mr S declared a net income of £2,100  and total monthly expenditure of £1,025,  broken down 
as follows: £650  for housing, £75 for utilities, £150  for transport, £75 for food, £50 for other  
credit commitments  and £25 for other  general  expenditure.  So based on Mr S declaration,  
his disposable  income was in the region of £1,075 a month.
Although I havent  seen  the details of QuickQuids credit checks, it has provided me with its 
estimate of Mr S disposable income  (EDI).  The estimates are significantly lower than the 
£1,075 calculated by deducting Mr S declared expenditure from his declared income. 
I dont know exactly how QuickQuid calculated  Mr S EDI  but it has said that credit checks 
are one relevant  factor.
Because I dont know how QuickQuid actually worked out the EDI, I cant say this reflects a 
proportionate check. I think In Mr S circumstances, a proportionate check wouldve  included 
QuickQuid making sure it had sufficient  information about all of Mr S credit commitments 
Ref: DRN23090804(and his living  costs).  This is because he was taking  out a new loan in close  proximity to 
repaying a previous loan, suggesting  he was struggling to sustainably settle his debt.
Although I cant say QuickQuids checks were  proportionate, I dont think proportionate 
checks wouldve led QuickQuid to a significantly  different figure for Mr S disposable  income 
than it estimated  which was around  £377  per month. So I dont think the largest repayment 
wouldve looked unaffordable to it. And Im not therefore upholding  Mr S complaint about  
loan 4.
But for loan 4a, I do not think it was responsible for QuickQuid to lend.  Mr S first (interest 
only) payment on loan 4 was due on 21 September 2019 and was for about £65. Mr S 
top-up on this loan was approved on 19 September  just two days before the first payment 
on the loan. So I think QuickQuid ought  to have been concerned  that Mr S needed to borrow 
further funds in such close proximity to a repayment. I dont think it was reasonable for 
QuickQuid to still think the repayments were  sustainable if at the time of the first  and 
smallest  payment  Mr S needed  to borrower  further. As I dont think  it was responsible to 
lend in these circumstances, Im upholding the complaint about loan 4a.
loans 5 and 6
These were  both also balloon payment loans. Ive summarised the repayments and 
QuickQuids EDI figures below.
Loan no.
Repayment 1Repayment 2Repayment 3 EDI (£)
5£86 due on 
21 Dec 2017£93 due on 
19 Jan 2018£506 due on 
21 Feb 2018310
6£37 due on 
21 May 2018£50 due  on 
21 Jun 2018£246 due on 
20 Jul 2018139
Im not persuaded that the checks QuickQuid carried out were proportionate in the 
circumstances of these  loans. Loan  5 was taken out only a few days  after Mr S repaid loan 
4. And although there was a larger gap between loans 5 and 6, I think  its likely QuickQuid 
was aware Mr S indebtedness was increasing during this period as the EDI figure  had 
almost halved when compared to loan 5.
I think it would have  been proportionate  at this stage for QuickQuid to obtain a more  detailed 
understanding of Mr S income and outgoings  by asking for him to provide  further proof. It 
had already seen  a payslip for Mr S, so something  such as copies  of bank statements and/or 
bills wouldve helped  it get a clearer  picture of his outgoings.
Had QuickQuid done this, I think it likely wouldve seen  loans 5 and 6 were not affordable. 
Our adjudicator set out in detail why this was and having independently reviewed the figures  
he used, I agree with them.
Mr S income was around £2,450  and his general  living costs (rent,  food,  utilities  etc.) more 
than £1,000. His regular credit commitments were also around £1,000. In addition  to these 
commitments, Mr S had other short-term financial commitments at the time of loans 5 and 6. 
Based on this, I think proportionate  checks wouldve shown QuickQuid that loans 5 and 6 
were not affordable for Mr S. And Im therefore  upholding  his complaint about them.
Ref: DRN23090805Id add that throughout the period  of lending, Mr S declared credit commitments of just £50 a 
month. An analysis  of Mr S bank  statements  at the time of loans 5 and 6 suggests  he was at 
times spending closer  to £2,000 a month  repaying  his debts. I note that QuickQuid said to 
this service:
if there are material discrepancies [in the application for credit], or if there  are reasons to 
question the information provided  by the customer and/or  credit  report,  we ask the customer 
for additional information such as bank statements in order  to conduct  further  validation.
Given the differences between what Mr S declared  and what  QuickQuid determined about  
his disposable  income, Im surprised it didnt ask further questions.  Had it done so, I think its 
likely it wouldve seen the true extent of Mr S indebtedness  and that further  lending  was 
unlikely to be sustainably  affordable for him.
But in any event, I think QuickQuid ought to have  realised, from the information Ive referred  
to above, that loans  4a, 5 and 6 were not affordable  for Mr S. So Im upholding the complaint 
about them.
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right
QuickQuid must:
refund  the interest and charges Mr S paid on loans  4a, 5 and 6
add to the refund 8% simple  interest  a year, from when the interest and charges were 
paid, until the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  about  loans 4a, 5 and 6 from Mr S credit history
HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. CashEuroNet  UK LLC must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309080