K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about a card payment terminal supplied  to her under a regulated  hire 
agreement financed by Merchant Rentals Limited.
background
Mrs S, a sole trader, had a portable card payment  terminal under a regulated consumer hire 
agreement with Merchant  Rentals. In April 2018  she called a helpline  (run by the terminal 
manufacturer) to report  that she had experienced problems with the machine only working 
intermittently during an event she had attended  away from her usual business  premises.  She 
asked for a replacement terminal,  but instead  the helpline  advised her to download a 
software patch which appeared to solve the problem.  So no replacement was sent.
The problem recurred when she attended  another event in May. Mrs S says the terminal 
worked intermittently during the first two days of the event, and then stopped  working 
altogether on the third day, a Saturday.  She asked again for a replacement, but was told that 
this would be supplied  on the next working day, which as it was a bank holiday weekend  was 
Tuesday. Since the busiest days at the event were  the weekend, Mrs S says she lost a lot of 
business. She complained to the broker of the hire agreement (which handled customer  
support), and asked  for compensation for her lost business. The broker  did not accept that it 
had done anything wrong, but as a gesture  of good  will it agreed to arrange to defer payment 
of her lease  for three months, and to replace the terminal  with one made by a different  
manufacturer. Being dissatisfied with that response, Mrs S complained to our Service. She 
said she should have  been provided  with a new terminal  when shed first asked for one.
One of my colleagues  decided that the broker was not responsible for the matter Mrs S was 
complaining about, and that her complaint should be set up against Merchant Rentals 
instead, since Mrs Ss contract  was with them. Merchant Rentals considered her complaint, 
but did not accept that it was responsible for the problems with the terminal.  It had no 
technical expertise  about the terminal, it only leased  it to Mrs S, and any technical problems 
about its use were the responsibility of the manufacturer,  which  ran the helpline.  It referred  to 
clauses in the agreement which excluded any liability  Merchant Rentals might  otherwise 
have had. 
One of our investigators  decided to uphold this complaint. She said that the test of the 
terminal after the software update had not been adequate, because  the terminal  had not 
been tested at its full capacity  (and it had failed  during the busiest period of trading). So she 
thought the helpline  should have replaced the machine as requested, and not settled  for an 
update which could not be guaranteed  to work. She said the terminal had not been  fit for 
purpose, being unable  to cope with a busy period, and that this was a breach  of contract by 
Merchant Rentals. The upgrade had not solved the problem, and so Merchant Rentals 
should reimburse Mrs S for losses, which the investigator calculated to be about  £2,300,  
plus interest at eight per cent a year.
Mrs S was satisfied with that outcome, but Merchant Rentals objected for a number of 
reasons. Firstly, it said that the investigator had worked  out Mrs Ss losses  based on her 
takings, not her profits. Secondly, it argued that the exclusionary clauses meant  that it was 
not liable  to Mrs S for anything at all. And thirdly,  it said Mrs S had failed to mitigate  her loss, 
by not using a back-up machine she had had all along. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
Ref: DRN21576762I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows (without the footnotes).
my provisional findings
introduction
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I agree with Merchant Rentals that  if I uphold this complaint  Mrs Ss remedy  for 
consequential loss would  be, at best,  a refund of her lost profits, not a refund of all her lost 
income. And some compensation  for her inconvenience.
Secondly, it is important  to be clear precisely  what Mrs Ss complaint is about. She is not 
seeking to hold Merchant Rentals responsible for the terminal  not working properly (whether 
that was because of a fault with the machine itself or a problem with the signal). Rather, 
Mrs S complains that because the problem she reported was not rectified by the software 
update, she should have  been given a replacement  terminal instead, but this didnt happen. 
Her complaint is that Merchant Rentals is responsible  for that.
Merchant Rentals liability
I have read the terms and conditions of the hire agreement. Clause 5 says:
5.1 We will make available to you a telephone enquiry helpline  The
Helpdesk will answer queries from you relating to the operation of the Terminal(s) 
and record any reported breakdown of the Terminal(s).
5.2 In the event that any reported  breakdown  in the Terminal(s) cannot  be rectified  
through consultation with the Helpline  we will arrange for the delivery to you of a 
replacement operational Terminal 
So this complaint is about whether Merchant  Rentals breached a term which  in specified  
circumstances  makes Merchant Rentals responsible for replacing a terminal.
The scope of this complaint is important,  because some of the exclusionary terms are 
confined to matters  over which Merchant Rentals has no control,  and some  terms say that 
Merchant Rentals has no liability  for any losses however caused. The relevant  terms are as 
follows (emphasis added):
6.3 You hereby  acknowledge that;
(a) we have  not seen the Terminal(s)  prior to delivery to you;
(b) we have  no technical  expertise in the Terminal(s); and
(c) we cannot  be responsible for the connection of the Terminal(s) to any network or 
the strength or compatibility of any signal or other aspect of any wireless  or other 
connection which may affect the performance or use of the Terminal(s).
6.6 We will not be liable to you if we cannot carry out our responsibilities under this 
Agreement because of anything that we cannot  reasonably  control . This includes but 
is not limited to any machine, data processing  system or transmission link failing to 
work, industrial disputes  and anything else that we cannot reasonably  control. We 
will not in any circumstances be liable  for any indirect or consequential losses or any 
direct or indirect losses of profits, business or contract however they may arise 
Ref: DRN215767636.7 We cannot be responsible  for the connection of the Terminal(s)  to any network; 
third party supplied broadband services, ADSL modems  or associated 
telecommunications technology which  may affect the performance or use of the 
Terminal(s).
Any of these clauses  would exclude Merchant Rentals liability for the terminal not working. 
But only clause 6.6 might be capable of excluding  liability for a breach of clause 5.2.
Clause 6.6 can be considered in two parts. The first two sentences are about  matters  which  
Merchant Rentals cannot  reasonably control, and the third sentence purports  to exclude 
liability for anything  at all.
Section 3 of the Unfair Contract Terms Act 1977 says that exclusionary clauses must be 
reasonable. That means the term shall have  been a fair and reasonable one to be 
included having  regard to the circumstances which were, or ought reasonably  to have been, 
known to or in the contemplation of the parties  when  the contract was made.
Clause 6.3 is evidence of what was known  by the parties when the contract  was made.  
I accept that Merchant Rentals staff know  nothing about the terminal  and how it works. But 
in clause 5.2 Merchant Rentals takes  responsibility for the helpline  notwithstanding  that the 
helpline was in fact run by a third party, the manufacturer  and for replacing a terminal  in 
the event that any reported breakdown  cannot be rectified through consultation  with the 
Helpline.
Having regard to all of that, in my opinion it cannot  be reasonable to have a clause which 
excludes Merchant  Rentals liability for any losses resulting from any breach of clause 5.2 in 
all circumstances  and however they may arise. So I consider it to be fair and reasonable to 
assess Merchant Rentals  liability for a breach of clause 5.2 (if there was one) as excludable 
only pursuant to the first two sentences  of clause 6.6  that is, if it was because  of anything 
that Merchant Rentals could not reasonably  control.
There is an obvious argument which could be made to the effect that Merchant Rentals 
could never  reasonably control what happens during  or after a call to the helpline, because 
the helpline  is run by a third party. So they dont know what happens on the calls,  or what  
the outcomes  are, unless  the manufacturer tells them.  But I dont accept that argument.  The 
agreement doesnt  expressly tell the hirer that a third party runs the helpline, leaving this to 
be inferred from clause  6.3. Clause 5.1 says that any reported  breakdown  will be recorded  
by the helpline, and so I would expect Merchant Rentals to be told or have access  to the 
information so recorded, and to act on that information. Perhaps Merchant Rentals relies on 
the helpline  staff to proactively tell it if this happens,  rather than Merchant Rentals monitoring 
the information recorded by the helpline from time to time,  but I dont think  that matters,  
because in clause  5.2 Merchant Rentals  agrees  to take responsibility  for replacing a 
defective terminal that cant be fixed by the helpline. So it must be Merchant Rentals 
responsibility to ensure  that there are effective arrangements in place between  them  and the 
manufacturer to enable  them to comply with that clause. That is a matter  reasonably  within 
their control.
I am reinforced in that conclusion by the fact that Mrs S didnt have a contract with the 
manufacturer, so her only remedy for the failure of a terminal which cannot be repaired by 
the helpline  is against Merchant Rentals  for failing to replace it.
When the software update was downloaded, the terminal was tested and it appeared to work 
again. However, the problem Mrs S reported  was not that the terminal never  worked at all, 
Ref: DRN21576764only that it just worked intermittently. So the fact that the terminal worked immediately  after 
the update, when it wasnt busy,  did not prove that the problem had really been rectified. And 
as subsequent events demonstrated, it hadnt  been.  The repair wasnt tested properly. So 
I think that Merchant Rentals was under a duty to replace the terminal,  whether or not 
Merchant Rentals realised  that the problem hadnt  been rectified  by the helpline.
In coming to that decision I have paid close attention to the wording of clause 5.2. It does not 
say that Merchant Rentals will only replace  a terminal when the helpline  concedes  defeat. 
I think the clause  is broad enough to include a scenario where the helpline fails to rectify  a 
reported breakdown but does not immediately realise that it has failed. So the responsibility  
is (in the first instance)  on the helpline to take adequate steps  to ensure that a problem has 
been fixed  especially in the case where  the problem is reported to be intermittent, as this 
must naturally reduce  the probative  force of a single successful test of the equipment   and 
to record accurate information for the use of Merchant Rentals. It then becomes the 
responsibility of Merchant Rentals to replace a terminal when the helpline fails to repair  it. (If 
this duty appears  to Merchant Rentals to be unfair or onerous,  then this will be  or could 
have been  mitigated by negotiating an indemnity in its service agreement  with the 
manufacturer, to provide for this sort of situation.)
For the above reasons, I find that Merchant  Rentals should have replaced the terminal  in 
April, and that clause 6 does not exclude Merchant Rentals liability to Mrs S for her loss of 
profits which  resulted  from having  to continue  to use the same terminal.
mitigation of loss
I next consider  whether Mrs S failed to mitigate  her loss by not using the backup machine 
already provided  to her. She was under a duty to do what she reasonably could to reduce 
the loss of profits caused by the breakdown of the terminal.
The backup  machine has been  described as a manual swipe  machine. Mrs S says it is 
completely useless because it does not give authorisation for transactions, it only records 
card details, so it offers  her no protection. She also says that customers  are reluctant to trust 
the machine with their card details. So she didnt  use it. Instead she sent customers  to an 
automated teller machine (ATM), which was far away and charged for cash  withdrawals. She 
says that as customers were reluctant to use the ATM, she lost a lot of business.
Merchant Rentals and the broker of the hire agreement have both explained  that 
authorisation for payments  taken on the backup  machine can be obtained by phoning the 
merchant acquirer and asking for an authorisation  code at the time of each transaction.  This 
provides the merchant with the protection Mrs S says is lacking.
Using the backup machine and making the phone calls is admitted to be time-consuming.  
But so is walking to a distant ATM.  Customers  may be reluctant  to do it, but they were also 
reluctant to use the ATM, and offered the choice, many customers  may have opted to pay 
using the backup machine. They were denied that opportunity by Mrs S. So I agree that she 
could have done more to avoid losing customers.
It is not possible to know  how many customers would have agreed to pay using the backup 
machine, and how many would still have walked away. I accept that not all of them  would 
have used it, but I think most of them probably  would have done. So I acknowledge that 
whatever formula I come  up with must necessarily be somewhat arbitrary,  but I think that 
(subject to what follows) it would have  been fair to award Mrs S one third of her lost profits 
Ref: DRN21576765for the event, plus interest. I am also minded  to award some compensation for her distress 
and inconvenience.
consequential loss
Mrs S has already provided  her statements for May 2016, May 2017 and May 2018. Our 
investigator only added up the card payments  and cash takings in the three days 
immediately following the end of each annual event.  This was because card payments  do 
not show up on a statement  immediately, but take a few days to clear. (In fact they often 
take longer than three days.) However,  the fact that 7 May 2018 was a bank holiday does 
not appear to have  been allowed for, as only the income on 8 and 9 May has been counted. 
I think 10 May should have been  counted  as well, when there  were  another  £1,568.60 of 
card payments which I infer were processed at the event (especially since this amount is not 
untypical for the event but is not usual for other  days.) Taking this into account  (and also a 
payment of £46 in 2017 which was overlooked) reduces  the difference  between (1) the 
takings in the event in 2018 and (2) the average  of the takings in the events in the two 
previous years to £760.90.1
However, it is only the loss of profits  which  should be refunded,  not merely the difference 
between the income  at one event and the average income at the earlier  annual  events.  It 
would obviously be misleading  to only count outgoings which occurred during the five days  
that each annual event ran for.2 So I have added up all of the outgoings for the whole of 
each period for which we have statements, rather than for just a few days,  as well as all of 
the card and cash payments during the same  times.
Having done so, it seems  that the total card and cash payments for each period, and the 
total outgoings in the same period, were as follows:
May 2016 May 2017 May 2018
Income: £7,074.99 £6,582.60 £6,699.50
Outgoings: £2,847.55 £1,830.83 £9,789.84
I havent included  a row for profits, because there was also some other income from online 
payments (about £380 in 2018), and two VAT rebates  (about £620  in 2016 and about £540  
in 2018), which I havent counted in the table. But it is still very obvious that May 2018 was 
not a profitable  month for Mrs S. Even allowing  for the tax rebate and online payments, 
which in that month  total £921.64, her outgoings still exceeded her income by well over 
£2,000. That is a considerably greater sum than can be attributed  to the failure  of the 
terminal. She would still have made a loss even if the terminal had been  working.
It follows that the £760.90 of lost takings at the event in 2018 doesnt represent  a gross 
income from which outgoings could have been deducted to obtain a net profit.  It is actually a 
loss, part of a greater net loss of £2,168.70, a loss which  would have been smaller  but for 
the terminal not being replaced. So it is not unfair to require the whole figure of £760.90 to 
be refunded after all  less two thirds, as explained  above. I will add interest,  and £200 for 
her trouble.
1 I have amended this sentence slightly to make it clearer.
2 This is become some  expenses would have been incurred in advance, such as buying stock.
Ref: DRN21576766my provisional decision
So I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties by the date at the bottom of this decision, I intend to order 
Merchant Rentals Limited to pay Mrs S:
£253.63 for consequential  loss,
simple interest on that amount at eight per cent a year, from 10 May 2018  to the date 
of settlement, and
£200 for her trouble.
responses to my provisional  findings
Merchant Rentals did not agree with my decision,  but it was prepared to accept it in the 
interests of resolving this complaint.
Mrs S disagreed with my provisional decision. She denied that she had failed to mitigate  her 
loss, because it had been reasonable of her not to use the backup machine. She said it 
normally takes 15 minutes to phone the bank to authorise a transaction using the backup 
machine, which  is an obsolete model, and customers  would not have the patience to wait for 
that long. This last point was put to Merchant Rentals, and they did not challenge it.
She also said that it was unfair to include some of the expenses  I had counted  in the month 
of May 2018, because  they were not incurred in connection with the event. She had just 
chosen to pay them in that month;  otherwise her business would have been profitable in that 
month.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since it takes such a long time to process  a card payment using the backup machine, I now 
understand why Mrs S didnt use it. So I no longer think she has failed to mitigate her loss. 
I will therefore award her all of her lost profits, instead of a fraction of them.
I do not agree that it is reasonable to differentiate between different business  expenses,  
since they were all incurred in connection with running her business in one way or another, 
and so I have  not revised my figures. I therefore  remain of the view that Mrs Ss 
consequential loss is £760.90, for the reasons I explained in my provisional  findings.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Merchant Rentals Limited  to pay Mrs S:
£760.90 for consequential  loss,
simple interest on that amount at eight per cent a year, from 10 May 2018  to the date 
of settlement, and
£200 for her trouble.
Ref: DRN21576767Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2157676