K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt tell him his mortgage  was in an arrangement to 
pay so he was denied  the chance to put it right.
background
Mr A has a joint mortgage with his now ex-partner,  who Ill call Ms C. In August 2017 they 
split up and Mr A moved out of the property. Since then Ms Cs been  paying the mortgage. 
The mortgage payments were  maintained  until the beginning of 2019  when Ms C told 
Santander shed  be unable to pay a month,  and agreed to make the missed payment up 
over the next four months. As this was an agreement that was reached,  it was notified on 
Mr As and Ms Cs credit files as being in an arrangement to pay, rather  than in arrears.  
Santander didnt  write  to Mr A to notify him of the arrangement so Mr A complained. 
Santander apologised for not notifying him and sent a cheque for £50 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, saying the contact notes showed Mr A couldnt 
make any contributions anyway so even if he had been notified  it wouldnt have  made a 
difference. Mr A didnt  agree  and so its been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A is unhappy Santander  didnt notify him of the arrangement to pay. He says the failure to 
contact him led to a negative impact on his credit file, as there was no opportunity  for him to 
remedy the situation.
Mr A had various conversations with Santander in January 2019 as that payment was made 
late in the month,  with the direct debit  having bounced; arrears that Mr A was notified of by 
letter on 18 January 2019.
Despite knowing the mortgage was in arrears at that point, Mr A told Santander each time he 
spoke to it that he wasnt in a position to make  a payment to the mortgage.  So even if he had 
been notified of the arrangement to pay its clear he couldnt have taken action anyway, as 
otherwise surely he would  have  done when hed previously been told about  the worse  
situation of his mortgage being in arrears (and going to be reported as such).
Ms C couldnt afford the mortgage that month, and Mr A told Santander he couldnt make 
any payment, so Santander  acted fairly  in putting  an arrangement to pay on the account so 
their credit files would reflect that, rather than the worse position of an account in 
unarranged arrears.  There was no collusion with Ms C as Mr A believes, instead  the 
payment arrangement was a pragmatic solution  to the fact neither customer could afford  to 
pay the mortgage that month, and the lack of letter to Mr A was a simple human error.
Santander admitted  it made a mistake  in not writing  to Mr A and offered £50 compensation 
for that. Having considered everything  Im satisfied thats a fair offer.  Mr A has referred to the 
fact Santander  sent him that cheque  even after he said he didnt accept it, saying he sees 
that as a form of financial coercion. I think Mr A has misdirected himself here about why 
Ref: DRN21285742Santander sent the cheque. Its quite normal in the industry for compensation to still be paid 
(whether sent by cheque or by bank transfer) even if a consumer doesnt accept the overall 
outcome, as that way the consumer has the benefit  of the funds the business  feels is fairly 
due whilst they still have  the right to appeal the outcome with this service. Id never  criticise a 
business for doing that as it is good customer service to do so.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense Im satisfied the offer Santander made in its final 
response letter is fair. I leave it to Mr A to contact  Santander directly if he now wishes to 
accept that offer. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required  to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2128574