K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by post in 2002 at the same time 
as Mrs T applied  for the credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  because:
 I think Halifax made Mrs T aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it - 
although I can understand she might  not remember this as the sale was over 15 years 
ago. I say this as Mrs T indicated that she wanted PPI on her application  form, ticking  a 
box to select the cover.  
 I dont think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs T so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for her. This means it was up to Mrs T to decide whether the policy was right 
for her bearing in mind her ability to make her credit  card repayments if she was 
unable to work or lost her job.
 I agree  its possible the information Halifax gave  Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But Mrs T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  Her representative  says Mrs T was entitled  to six months full 
pay and six months  half pay if she was sick so if the costs versus  benefit had been 
made clear, Mrs T would  have  declined the cover. But I disagree  - the PPI would have  
paid out in addition to her work  benefits  for up to 12 months, and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. So I think it unlikely Mrs T wouldve made a different  decision 
if better information  had been provided.  On balance I think  she would still have taken 
out the policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs T paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs T back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  And I understand Halifax  has already paid 
this to Mrs T.
Ref: DRN23255712my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2325571