K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Admiral Insurance Company  Limiteds  handling of a 
claim on their motor  insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes its agents.
background
The windscreen on Mr and Mrs Ms car was chipped. Under the terms of their policy Admiral 
arranged for a technician to look at it. After talking to him Mr and Mrs M decided  to have the 
windscreen replaced rather than repaired. As the technician didn't  have  a replacement 
windscreen with him a second technician went out on another  day. After hed installed the 
new windscreen Mr and Mrs M learned that the lifetime guarantee that came  with the new 
windscreen didn't  cover  future repairs but only the installation. 
Mr and Mrs M complained. Admiral acknowledged that some of its service hadn't been  up to 
the standard it would  like and offered to reduce their excess  charge  by £35. Mr and Mrs M 
didn't think  that went far enough and brought their complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. She thought Admiral had dealt with it fairly.  Mr and Mrs M didn't 
agree so the complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm not going to uphold 
it.
Mr and Mrs Ms policy covers repair or replacement of glass.  But the policy excess  is 
different depending on which of those  things happen. If the glass  is repaired then an excess  
of £25 applies. That figure increases to £95 if the windscreen is replaced.
Mr and Mrs M said that the first technician saw that the windscreen had other damage 
beyond the chip Mr and Mrs M had asked him to repair. They said the technician  told them 
that if they chose  to have the windscreen  replaced it would come with a lifetime guarantee. 
And Mr and Mrs M said they believed that meant  that if the glass needed further  repair in the 
future it would be covered  by that lifetime  guarantee, which  they said out aloud in the 
technicians presence. And the technician  didn't  tell them that wasn't the case. So they went  
ahead and ordered a new windscreen.  But, after the second technician had put the new 
windscreen in, they learnt that the guarantee didn't cover future windscreen damage.  They 
said that if theyd  known that they wouldn't have had the new windscreen installed and 
instead would have had the old one repaired.  In other words,  they said that the first 
technician mis-sold the new windscreen.
Clearly I wasn't there when Mr and Mrs M chose to have a new windscreen fitted. So its 
simply not possible for me to know exactly what was discussed  and who said what to whom.  
But I would expect the glass fitters to know what the lifetime guarantee covered. And it's 
clear that the second technician was aware  of the extent  of that cover.  Also its certainly  
possible that Mr and Mrs M had simply misunderstood the terms of the guarantee but that 
the first technician hadn't appreciated that was the case. So I don't  think its fair to conclude 
that the technician must  have mis-sold the replacement windscreen.
Ref: DRN25068212I note that Admiral acknowledged  that some of its service wasn't as good as it would like. 
For example, the second technician arrived late. And it offered  to reduce Mr and Mrs Ms 
excess payment by £35 to address  any service  failings. I think  that was a reasonable 
response in the circumstances.
I understand that the events complained about took place at a time when Mrs M was going  
through a difficult  pregnancy. So she certainly  could have done  without the extra stress of 
pursuing this complaint.  But as I havent concluded  - for the most  part - that Admirals 
service was unfair, I don't think it needs to take any further action  to put things  right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2506821