K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Mr L applied for his loan and PPI policy.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £699.24  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 36-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £202.70  with the PPI costing  an additional £18.59 making  the total 
monthly repayment £221.29.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr Ls monthly  loan repayment  for the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a firefighter. He has told us he was entitled to 12 months 
worth of sick pay and had redundancy pay. But Mr L also told us he didnt have any savings 
or other insurances to make his repayments  in the event he was unable  to work. Mr L has 
said he suffered from a medical condition prior to the sale,  but he confirmed this was a one-
off condition which didnt  affect him after this. So Mr L [was in good  health at the time of the 
sale. 
Nationwide has evidence  to show that the loan account closed in April 2006
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ls representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr L about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN20299032The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN20299033The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN20299034Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time thats passed,  it isnt clear  how Mr L applied for the PPI and loan. 
Mr L first said it was taken out in a meeting and Nationwide said it was sold over the phone. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint as a phone sale and neither Mr L nor his CMC 
responded to dispute this. So, it seems this issue is no longer in dispute, and I have also 
considered this to be an phone  sale. 
Nationwide have provided a sales script which it says wouldve been used for phone sales  at 
the time  and without a call recording this is the best evidence  available  of what  happened  
during the call. This shows that the Nationwide sales representative wouldve been 
instructed discuss Mr Ls loan with and without  PPI and to present the PPI as optional. 
Following the call, Mr L received a loan agreement. Ive seen a copy  of this and I can see 
that the PPI was set out under the column heading  Optional Credit Insurance. Mr L signed  
and returned the loan agreement, but I think if Mr L was not advised the PPI was optional  
over the phone he wouldve questioned this when he received the loan paperwork. So I think  
this reflected what he wanted  at the time.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L knew the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Both Nationwide and Mr L agree that advice  wasnt provided during  this sale. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr L to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr L would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mr L knew that the single  premium  being added to 
the loan was £596.68, the interest added to the premium was £72.56, the total cost was 
£669.24, and the monthly  cost was £18.59 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Mr L signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr L agreed to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ref: DRN20299035Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr L. 
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr L 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr L 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr L says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN20299036As Ive already  said, the information Mr L was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit,  and the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr L would get back  in return  in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ls expectations about  what  the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mr L 
knew of or should reasonably have known  of on the start date.  Or, any medical  
condition or disease  for which Mr L received treatment,  advice  or were referred for 
investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which  recurs within 12 
months of the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr L repaid the loan early  and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr L to have done so.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided  
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have any ongoing  
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr L needed to be totally unable  to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been  able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr L decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  
Ref: DRN20299037its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr L made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr L would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
Ref: DRN20299038and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 May 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2029903