K820x#14complaint
Mr B, and his representative, are unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt follow his 
instructions to pay off a loan for a kitchen.
background
Mr Bs representative says Mr B has personal  and health issues  which resulted in him being  
unable to carry out the transactions  for repaying a loan hed taken out with a third party 
company for a kitchen. So he went into a Barclays branch to get assistance in doing  so from 
a manager. He thought  the loan had been  paid off. But a few months later Mr B saw from his 
statements that he was still making  payments for the kitchen loan which he says he asked 
the manager to pay off. He then dealt with another manager who found out the wrong  loan 
had actually been paid off previously  by his colleague. As a result  hes been financially 
penalised and he wants compensating  for this.
Barclays said its Mr Bs responsibility to monitor his account and make  it aware of any 
irregularities in a timely manner. Its also said the original manager  Mr B dealt with has left 
the bank and there are no customer contact notes available about the meeting.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said that there isnt enough  
information to show Mr B asked Barclays to settle  this kitchen loan. And she cant  safely say 
Barclays acted unfairly  or unreasonably given the limited information  available to her. Shes 
also noted that the customer contact  notes Barclays has supplied show  Mr B made the 
appointment in branch and there are no notes  for the relevant time. The loan company also 
has no record of a request to pay off the kitchen  loan around the relevant time. 
Mr Bs representative doesnt agree and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary 
he says its very convenient for Barclays that the manager no longer works for it and no 
customer contact notes  are available. When he went with Mr B to the second meeting with 
Barclays a few weeks later the original  manager declined to attend and sent someone else 
in his place. Its accepted  that Mr B didnt  receive  confirmation that the kitchen loan had 
been paid off and if itd been settled this wouldve also shown up on his statement. But the 
point is because of his personal  situation  Mr B couldnt settle  the loan himself and thats why 
he visited the branch  and sought the assistance of his manager. Another loan was correctly 
paid off on the same occasion. Mr B wants to be compensated  for the additional interest hes 
paid on the kitchen loan due to the original managers error. And theres  nothing  to disprove 
Mr Bs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Its apparent that because  of his personal  situation Mr B sought help from his Barclays 
manger to pay off some  loans. Its unfortunate that Barclays  doesnt have any customer  
contact notes about the relevant meeting Mr B had with his manager  and that this person 
has left the bank. Consequently  theres  no evidence available to establish what was said at 
that meeting,  what Mr B asked the manager to do or to support  Mr Bs contention that he 
Ref: DRN27840092asked the manager to pay off the kitchen loan. The kitchen loan company has also 
apparently said it doesnt  have a record of a request to pay off the kitchen loan at that time.
It seems  another loan was successfully paid off by the manager  on Mr Bs instructions. But 
theres nothing to show on balance that an error  was made  by Barclays  when the kitchen 
loan wasnt paid off as Mr B says he wanted. 
Furthermore, as Barclays has said, it was Mr Bs responsibility to monitor his account  and 
contact it if there was an irregularity. Whatever happened at the meeting with the manager,  I 
think it wouldve quickly become apparent  to Mr B, or one of his representatives, that the 
kitchen loan hadnt been paid off. As if it had been paid off a large debit of thousands of 
pounds wouldve been shown leaving his account.  In addition subsequent further payments 
towards the loan were  also taken from Mr Bs account and these were shown on his 
statements. Mr Bs representative also accepts there was no confirmation received that the 
loan had been paid off. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think its been  shown on balance that Mr B instructed 
the manager to pay off the kitchen loan or that I can reasonably conclude the manager was 
asked to do so and made an error  in not doing so. And I dont think I can on the available 
evidence fairly require Barclays to pay any compensation to Mr B as he and his 
representative would like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr B and his representatives strength of feeling and 
frustration, I dont on balance see any compelling reason to change  the proposed  outcome in 
this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784009