K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about errors and delays  by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc relating to his 
application to refinance mortgages  on properties  hed inherited.  
background
Mr D is the executor of his sisters  estate.  Ill refer to his sister  as Ms D. The estate 
included two properties, both subject to mortgages  with RBS. 
Mr D inherited  the two properties from Ms D. After obtaining probate, which  took some time, 
Mr D applied to RBS for two mortgages.  He intended to use the proceeds  to repay the 
existing mortgages  on the properties.
Mr D says RBS didnt  process his mortgage  applications appropriately. He says RBS 
wouldnt process the mortgage applications  until hed repaid the existing mortgages and 
transferred the property  title into his name  which he couldnt do until his mortgages 
completed. And, in the meantime, it wouldnt let him make payments to the existing 
mortgage accounts. He says interest on the mortgages accumulated and RBS threatened to 
take possession  of the properties.
When the complaint  was brought to us, Mr Ds mortgages had completed and the mortgages 
in Ms Ds name had been repaid. Mr D says that due to delays by RBS,  the previous  
mortgages accumulated  more interest than they ought to have done. He says this came  to 
more than £30,000, which he wants the bank  to compensate him for.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  She said RBS had caused  
some delays to Mr Ds personal mortgage  applications  and its service  had been poor. 
However, she said there was no evidence that Mr D had asked for account details to make 
payments to the existing mortgage  accounts.  She said RBS should increase  the amount of 
compensation it offered. RBS has since offered to pay compensation of £650.
Mr D didnt agree and so the complaint was passed  to me. But before considering the merits 
of this complaint,  I issued  a decision to set out what parts of Mr Ds complaint we can 
consider. Some of Mr Ds concerns related  to how RBS dealt with him in his capacity as 
executor of Ms Ds estate: these concerns have been looked  into separately. Here,  Ive 
looked into Mr Ds complaint about how RBS dealt with his mortgage  applications.
my provisional decision  and the parties responses
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. I said that RBS had made  errors  which  caused 
some delays to Mr Ds mortgages completing.  I said I didnt think it was fair and reasonable 
to require RBS to pay compensation for the costs of the interest that accrued and was 
unpaid between mid-2015  to March 2018 (when  the mortgages were repaid). 
I said in my provisional decision that the cost of the unpaid interest meant the amount  of the 
mortgage loans  Mr D took out to refinance the existing mortgages  also had to increase. Mr D 
said this isnt correct:  he paid the interest  from his own funds. My apologies for this. 
I said in my provisional decision that compensation of £650 was fair and reasonable for the 
upset and inconvenience RBS caused  Mr D in relation to his two complaints. I said RBS 
should pay £500 of this compensation to Mr D for the upset and inconvenience  caused by 
Ref: DRN22601712the delays in his mortgage  applications.  Mr D said he wouldnt accept the compensation 
from RBS. 
I also said that RBS should  compensate Mr D for his costs  in appointing his own solicitor to 
advise on the mortgages, unless RBS can show it waived  legal costs  Mr D would otherwise 
have had to pay in relation to the new mortgages. Mr D provided a statement from his 
solicitor setting out the costs. I sent a copy of this to RBS. RBS didnt say that it had waived 
any legal  costs that Mr D incurred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
What happened?
Ms D died in mid-2015. Probate was granted in October 2016.  Ms D had appointed  Mr D as 
her executor. He also inherited two properties from her. There were  mortgages from RBS on 
both properties.
In November 2016 Mr D applied for buy to let mortgages to re-finance the mortgages on the 
two properties.  The mortgage offers expired in mid-2017. 
Mr D applied to RBS again for buy to let mortgages.  RBS required up-to-date accounts for 
his business, which he had to arrange to be prepared. RBS issued mortgage offers in late 
November 2017.  
Mr D became frustrated with the solicitors acting for him and RBS on the re-mortgages. He 
appointed his own solicitors in January 2018. The mortgages completed in March 2018.
Did RBS make errors?
Mr D says RBS made errors  which meant the mortgage didnt complete before  the first 
mortgage offers expired in mid-2017.  Ive issued a decision explaining why our rules dont 
allow me to look into this part of Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D says RBS refused to take rental income (about £2,800 per month) into account when 
assessing his mortgage applications.  As a result,  he had to have  up to date accounts 
prepared for his business. I do appreciate  the inconvenience this caused, especially in the 
context of this being  a new application  made  after the previous mortgage offers  expired.  But 
RBS is entitled  to make a commercial decision about its lending  criteria and what information  
it requires when assessing a mortgage  application.  I dont think  it was unreasonable  for it to 
ask for up to date accounts for Mr Ds business,  which is his main source of income.
The solicitor  acting for RBS and Mr D on the re-mortgages wrote  to Mr D in December 2017 
saying the re-mortgage couldnt go ahead until he was the registered  owner  of the property 
at the Land Registry. This was wrong: the purpose of the re-mortgage was to repay the 
existing mortgages  and allow the transfer of the properties into Mr Ds name.
Ref: DRN22601713RBS acknowledged  in its final response letter issued in early November 2017 that thered 
been a problem with the transfer of titles due to Mr Ds previous mortgage applications being 
processed incorrectly. I can appreciate  how frustrating it must have been  for Mr D when it 
seemed the same error  was being repeated in December 2017. Mr D appointed his own 
solicitors in January  2018. I can understand why he did this. I dont know  if the change  in 
solicitors caused any delay, but if it did I dont think its reasonable to say Mr D is responsible.
what compensation is fair and reasonable?
Mr D says he has losses of about £30,000. This is because  he says he was unable  to make 
payments to the existing mortgage  accounts  between mid-2015 to March  2018 (when the 
mortgages were repaid). During this time,  interest  accrued and was added to the account,  
increasing the amount owed. 
Ive looked into whether  RBS made  an error which prevented Mr D making  payments  
between 2015  and 2018 as part of Mr Ds complaint  about how RBS dealt with him in his 
capacity as executor  of Ms Ds estate. I wont be requiring  RBS to pay compensation to Mr D 
for this here.
Since Mr D brought  his complaints  to us, RBS offered  to pay compensation of £650. Mr D says 
this isnt enough. I appreciate this must have been a difficult  and upsetting  time for Mr D, 
whod recently lost his sister. I can understand that this made any error  or delay with the 
mortgage applications more upsetting than it might otherwise  have been.  Its difficult  to find an 
amount of compensation that could make up for the distress Mr D must have felt and which is 
fair to both parties  here.  But overall, I think £650 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
for the upset and inconvenience RBS caused  Mr D in relation to his two complaints. 
I wasnt consistent in my provisional decision about  how much of this compensation should 
be paid to Mr D for the upset and inconvenience  caused by the delays in his mortgage  
applications. Im sorry if this caused any confusion.  I think RBS should  pay £500 of this 
compensation to Mr D in relation to this complaint, relating to the delays in his mortgage 
applications.
I also said in my provisional decision that RBS should compensate  Mr D for his costs in 
appointing his own solicitor to advise  on the mortgages, unless RBS can show  it waived 
legal costs Mr D would  otherwise have had to pay. Mr D provided  a copy of a statement from 
his solicitor. The costs  that I think RBS should  compensate Mr D for total £2,732.80 (being 
the solicitors fees, searches and other costs for both mortgages). RBS asked whether Mr D 
would have incurred  some of these costs  anyway. But it hasnt provided the evidence I 
asked for: that it waived  all or some of the legal costs Mr D would have otherwise incurred. 
So I think RBS should compensate Mr D for these costs (totalling £2,732.80) and pay 
interest on this amount  at 8% simple  from the date the re-mortgages completed  to the date 
of settlement.
It is for Mr D to now decide whether to accept my decision, in which  case  RBS will be bound  
by it, or to reject it. 
Ref: DRN22601714my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to:
pay £500 to Mr D (if it hasnt already done so); and
Mr Ds legal costs,  with interest  at 8%.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2260171