K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC rejected his loan application due to affordability 
concerns.
background
Mr C applied for a loan with HSBC  to consolidate  debt from three credit cards. He applied  
online but was rejected  due to affordability  concerns. Mr C was surprised because the 
amount he would pay in loan repayments  would be less than what he currently pays towards 
his credit cards, which he felt he was able to afford.  He was concerned that the payments he 
currently makes  to his credit cards  had been  included in the affordability assessment. He 
also explained he had a very good  credit rating and sent us evidence of this, and had 
received letters from HSBC suggesting he should  apply for a loan which  he thought implied  
pre-approval. He thought HSBC should  have  called him before making a decision,  as it 
suggests they might on their website.
He visited a local branch where a staff member  called  the underwriter to question  the 
decision. The underwriter  explained the only way to change the amounts that were  taken 
into account in the assessment was to submit a new application. They  also said they only 
call the person applying if they need  extra information and they didnt in this case. 
Mr C wasnt happy with this explanation.  He raised  a complaint with HSBC  asking them  to 
reconsider the application and remove any markers  on his credit file. 
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. They said the application had been declined  because 
the underwriter didnt feel the repayments would be comfortably affordable. They  explained 
debt repayments  to other lenders have  to be considered as part of the assessment. They  
also explained the marketing they send is an example of the products they can provide, 
but all borrowing is subject to an assessment.  Mr C was unhappy with HSBCs response 
and raised a complaint with this service.
Our investigator considered all the information and thought HSBC had acted fairly when 
assessing the affordability of the loan.  She also agreed with HSBC that the promotional 
material didnt suggest pre-approval.  She therefore didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr C was unhappy with our investigators  view. He further pointed  out he should have been 
offered an appeal against the decision by HSBC in the first place. And he was told his 
application would have been handled  differently if he had applied  in a branch. Our 
investigator responded saying there  is an option  to appeal decisions and as he went into the 
branch the staff member enquired about  this on his behalf. The bank confirmed the same 
criteria are used for affordability checks in branch, so the outcome wouldve been the same 
if he had applied that way. Mr C was unhappy  with this response  and asked  for a decision 
from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says HSBC were  wrong to reject  his application for a loan based on affordability. So I 
have looked at whether they have  treated  Mr C fairly when processing his application.
Ref: DRN22581602Mr C says the affordability checks werent fair because he wouldnt be making repayments to 
his credit cards if he was approved for the loan. HSBC have explained  that the reason they 
include these repayments in the assessment is because the debt isnt with them. This means 
they cant control it, so it could be used again even if it is paid off initially.  Further to this, 
HSBC have also provided information  from the underwriter which  includes details about  how 
they reached their decision. I have seen the comments  from the underwriter, which are 
commercially sensitive.  However, Im satisfied  that even without the payments to his credit 
cards he still wouldnt  meet their criteria for affordability.  I appreciate  it would have been 
helpful if this information had been shared with Mr C when the underwriter was contacted. 
However this does mean I cant agree  the checks were unfair on this basis.  Therefore I dont 
think its fair to ask HSBC  to do the checks again as the outcome would be the same.  
HSBC have provided all the information  they considered as part of their affordability checks. 
As Mr C has bank  accounts with HSBC,  the underwriter was able to look at activity  in these 
alongside the information he submitted himself.  This means they had quite a large amount of 
information available when making  the decision.  It also means they were  able to look at 
regular payments from these accounts and compare it to the money that came  in to assess  
how affordable the repayments would be. Based on this I think HSBC  had a good amount of 
information and have considered proportionate, reasonable factors  when reaching their 
decision. And having done so, made the decision not to lend, on the basis that their 
affordability criteria werent met. I therefore  think they handled the application fairly. 
I also think that due to the amount  of information  HSBC had access  to when  making the 
decision, it is reasonable they didnt call Mr C. This is because it is likely they wouldnt have 
needed anything  extra in order to assess if Mr C met their criteria. 
I have also considered the fact Mr C wasnt offered  an appeal against the decision.  It is true 
the underwriter didnt explain the appeals  process  when the staff member  called. However  
they did say that as the basis for looking at the case again was to change the amounts 
considered, this would need to be a new application.  I think the underwriter should have 
explained there is an appeals process. I also think it wouldve been helpful  if they had 
explained they had already considered the affordability without the credit card repayments.  
However as HSBC had already considered all the relevant information and Mr C wouldnt 
have passed the affordability checks even without the card repayments,  it seems unlikely 
any appeal on that basis would be successful. I therefore think even if an appeal  had been  
offered, it wouldnt have changed the outcome for Mr C. 
Therefore as I dont  think HSBC have acted unfairly,  I dont think its fair to ask them to 
remove any marker from Mr Cs credit  file.
Finally, I have looked at the promotional material provided and I agree with our investigator  
that it doesnt suggest Mr C was pre-approved for a loan. The material states  clearly  the 
products advertised  are subject to lending conditions. So I dont agree they were misleading.
Ref: DRN22581603my final decision
For reasons I have given,  my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2258160