K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) debited his credit  card account 
with a series of four transactions totalling  £5,115.00  which  he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
background
On 2 April 2017  six transactions  were made in a gentlemens club on Mr Es card.  He 
disputes four of the six payments. Below  are the transactions I consider relevant to Mr Es 
complaint. The transactions in bold are the ones Mr E disputes.
Date Location Amount
00:09 Gentlemens club £1,100.00
00:14 Gentlemens club £23.10
01:22 Gentlemens club £495.00
01:44 Gentlemens club £1,320.00
02:29 Gentlemens club £2,200.00
04:05 Gentlemens club £11.00
04:56 Fast food restaurant £4.50
Total disputed transactions £5,115.00
Mr E was in a gentlemens club with friends for a stag party. He had been drinking but he 
said he wasnt particularly intoxicated. Mr E lost his friends and went  to a different  
gentlemens club next door in an attempt to find them. 
Mr E recalls  having a drink in the club which he thinks  may have been  spiked, though  he 
didnt seek medical  treatment. He said that unusually for him, he didnt remember  much  of 
the night. He remembers agreeing to one dance  after feeling pressured  to do so, but he 
couldnt recall how much it cost. 
Mr E remembered going  to the fast food restaurant  later on but isnt sure how he got back to 
where he was staying and didnt have  his card on him by then. When  Mr E noticed the 
transactions he got in touch with Barclays to dispute  them as he didnt think he made or 
otherwise authorised them.  He believes that the club took advantage  of his unfit state, 
potentially having  observed him entering  his PIN and then completing transactions or tricking 
him into paying larger amounts than he agreed to.
Mr E reported the club to the police, though no further action was taken in relation to this 
investigation. The club has since had its licenses  revoked and has closed down.  
Barclays declined to refund the transactions as they felt Mr E authorised  the payments. This 
is because:
The payments  were made using the genuine card and PIN
The disputed transactions occurred when  the card was in Mr Es possession and he 
doesnt dispute being in the club 
The club provided  Barclays with CCTV footage  that showed Mr E with the card 
terminal and dancers who worked  for the club
The club provided  a breakdown of what goods  and services  Mr E paid for 
Mr E was unhappy with Barclays response so he brought  a complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt  recommend it should be upheld as they 
Ref: DRN20311942thought it was most likely  Mr E authorised the transactions. Mr E didnt agree and so this has 
come to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr E liable  for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  Having 
reviewed the technical  evidence  Im satisfied that Mr Es genuine  card and PIN were entered 
to authenticate these payments. But according to the relevant regulations, this alone  is 
insufficient to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I need  to consider whether I think the 
evidence shows it is more  likely than not that he consented to the payments being  made.  
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Barclays to conclude  that Mr E 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr E accepts  he intended to pay for one dance which he thought would cost around 
£100. The first disputed payment was for £1,100  and I think on balance  it is most 
likely this is the dance he remembers consenting  to pay for, so I think  he authorised  
this. 
Further, in two images I can see Mr E with a card payment terminal  in his hand, the 
time stamps on these  images are forty five minutes apart  which is the same  as the 
length of time between the third and fourth  disputed transactions. With all of this in 
mind, it would be difficult to conclude anyone other than Mr E authorised  these 
payments. 
I have reviewed several stills from the footage  against a list of four lots of goods and 
services the club said Mr E paid for, alongside the payments  made  on his account. 
Mr E has been shown these images, and does not dispute that he is the male seen in 
them. 
The CCTV evidence shows Mr E in the bar area,  and later Mr E appears  to be in a 
private room with a number of individuals who I think are most likely dancers working 
in the club. The locations and number  of dancers appear to be in line with the 
breakdown of the goods and services  the club provided. So I think on balance  all four 
payments were authorised by Mr E. 
I do think its possible that whilst Mr E authorised  these payments, he didnt mean  to 
authorise payments  of these  amounts, or doesnt remember authorising  payments of 
these amounts. However, it would be Mr Es responsibility to check the amount on 
the terminal prior to entering his PIN. With regard  to the relevant regulations,  it is 
enough that he knew he was consenting to a payment even if he didnt know  the 
amount of that payment.  
Whilst I considered it unlikely due to the evidence Ive mentioned above, I have 
considered whether  the payments we cant see Mr E making  on the CCTV images  
were completed by someone else. These  payments were  made  using Mr Es genuine 
card, but by his own admission he had the card in his possession when he left the 
club, as well as after the first and the last disputed transactions. Whilst it is possible,  I 
dont think its likely  that an unknown  third party would risk taking Mr Es wallet,  
replacing it, taking it again,  completing  further  transactions and then returning the 
card when  it hadnt stopped working. This would cause an unnecessary risk of 
Ref: DRN20311943alerting Mr E that fraudulent transactions were taking place. Further, this wouldnt 
provide explanation for how he paid for the goods  and services  he can be seen 
receiving in the CCTV evidence. 
I also think it would be unusual for a third party,  having managed  to take Mr Es card 
and PIN without him noticing would make  transactions with twenty two and forty five 
minute gaps between them. In these kind of circumstances Id expect an unknown  
third party  to maximise use of the card by accessing any available  funds as quickly  
as possible as they couldnt know when  Mr E would notice his card was missing and 
he could block the account. 
Mr E has suggested he may have  been drugged in the club,  though hes not been 
able to provide  any further evidence in support of this. However, with regard to the 
relevant regulations and law, even if Mr E was intoxicated this would not bar him from 
being able to consent to these payments. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Im not asking Barclays  Bank  PLC 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2031194