K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains about the service she received from HSBC  UK Bank Plc when she asked 
it to refund  transactions on her account.
background
In June 2017 Miss F contacted HSBC  to say she was due some money back  from a 
company shed paid for goods,  but wasnt getting anywhere with the company itself.  She 
asked HSBC to help.
This process  is known  as a chargeback  whereby Miss Fs bank could apply to the card 
scheme provider to claim a transaction back on her behalf, where for example goods  hadnt 
arrived or were damaged.
Over the following months,  Miss F wrote  to HSBC by secure  message on a number of other  
occasions, raising further disputes about transactions on her account. By mid-2018 shed 
asked HSBC to help refund 13 separate transactions.
From June 2017 HSBC  started to write to Miss F, asking her to ring its specialist disputes  
team so it could take her cases  forward. Ive seen  evidence  of eight letters  and three text 
messages HSBC sent Miss F, all simply asking her to call to discuss  her chargeback  
requests.
In mid-2018, Miss F complained. She said it was hard for her to call HSBC  because she 
lived in an area with poor reception.  And when  she had tried to call, shed not been  able to 
get through to anyone.  She said shed asked  HSBC to respond by email or secure message, 
and wasnt happy  nothing had been done  with her requests for so long.
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said due to the complexity  of Miss Fs 
disputes it needed to talk to her before it could take them forward. But it offered to pay her 
£50 for the cost of her calls and any inconvenience  shed  suffered.
One of our investigators  looked into things and didnt think  HSBC had treated Miss F fairly. 
He thought it should have  been more flexible  in how it wanted her to get in touch about her 
chargeback requests. And if it had done  so shed have been able to raise  them  within the 
card scheme time limits  which have since passed.  He said HSBC  should now look into her 
requests in more  detail  and refund Miss F for the transactions it would have  raised 
chargebacks on. 
HSBC didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman  to decide the matter. It maintained it had 
called her, sent her text messages and written  to her. It didnt think  it should  be held 
responsible if Miss F didnt call back.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained I didnt think HSBC was responsible for 
failing to raise Miss Fs chargebacks in time.  But I thought it should pay her £250 for the poor 
service it provided in response to Miss Fs requests. I said:
This complaint is, at its heart,  about  the way HSBC dealt with the chargeback requests 
Miss F raised.  Like our investigator,  I dont think it was fair for HSBC to insist  so 
inflexibly that she call their disputes team before taking things forward.
Ref: DRN27769012HSBC offer a range  of ways its customers can get in contact. Where Miss F had 
expressed a preference for it to communicate with her in a certain way I think  HSBC 
ought to have done so. Id understand HSBCs stance  more  if Miss Fs request  was 
unreasonable, or impractical for HSBC to carry out  or if there was some  other reason 
it needed to only deal with these requests on the phone. But Im not persuaded thats 
the case.
Miss F mentioned as early as August 2017  that phone calls werent preferable for her 
due to the phone reception  where  she lived. Shes later added  that she tried to call 
HSBC a few times but the wait times  were  too long.
HSBC has said it needed to speak to Miss F on the phone because her requests were 
complex. And it couldnt use email because of the risk it posed to Miss Fs personal 
data. In my view, neither of those  reasons  explain why HSBC  could only do anything if 
they spoke to Miss F on the phone.
Most of the chargeback requests Miss F raised  seem to relate to goods she ordered 
being faulty, not arriving or having  only part of an order delivered. Other requests are 
more vague and dont specify the particular issues shed had with a retailer.
I think HSBC was entitled to ask more questions before raising any chargebacks on 
Miss Fs behalf. Particularly  given she had raised  a number of requests, and had also 
had a substantial  number of refunds credited to her account previously. So I dont think 
it was unreasonable for HSBC to want to find out more about  the problems Miss F 
seemed to keep  having with things shed ordered in order to more  fully understand the 
situation and help her with the chargeback requests.
But I dont agree with HSBC  about  the complexity of these requests. It seems  to me 
that if she said something arrived damaged, it could have asked for evidence of that in 
the form of photographs (for example). And if some of the requests  werent  clear  about 
what she was unhappy about, it could have  asked her to expand or clarify.  But I dont 
think these were things that could  only be discussed  on the phone.  
HSBC has shown it was willing  to communicate  in writing by sending  a number of 
letters to Miss F, asking her to call. And I think it would  have  been  fair for it to have 
included any questions  it had for Miss F, or a request for any evidence  it needed to 
see, in one of these  letters.
Both the post and HSBCs  own secure  messaging  service would also provide  more 
reassurance that HSBC could communicate  with Miss F without risking her data being 
intercepted, if HSBC was concerned email wasnt safe. Given  Miss F first contacted 
HSBC through  the secure messaging  service, which would allow for a quicker back-
and-forth than an exchange of letters, Im not clear  why HSBC was unable  or unwilling 
to use that medium  to talk to Miss F about her requests.
So I dont  think HSBC  treated Miss F fairly by insisting she called before it would do 
anything about  her chargeback requests. But, unlike our investigator,  I dont think  that 
means HSBC should be held responsible for those requests not being  raised.
While I think HSBCs approach certainly made  making these  requests more  
inconvenient, Im not persuaded  that Miss F was prevented from raising them  before 
the card scheme  time limits expired.
Ref: DRN27769013As Ive said I think it was reasonable for HSBC to need more information  or evidence 
before taking the requests  forward. And I think Miss F could have called to find out 
what was needed.  Shes said she was unable  to reach HSBC  on the phone because  of 
the volume of calls it was getting. But these requests were made over a period of 
nearly a year, and on balance I think its unlikely Miss F wouldnt  have  been  able to 
reach HSBC   even  if shed had to wait on hold for a while   at any point  over that 
period.
So I dont  think HSBC  needs to pay Miss F anything in respect of the chargeback  
requests themselves. Because  I think she could have mitigated any losses shes  
suffered as a result  by taking the reasonable step of calling HSBC when it asked her 
to.
But I do think this whole  experience was made more inconvenient than it needed to be 
as a direct  result of HSBCs actions. Im satisfied that repeatedly asking HSBC to get 
in touch a different way only to be told again and again just to call, when  Miss F had 
said she didnt want to, was frustrating and upsetting for her.
Taking all that into account,  I currently think HSBC  should pay Miss F £250 (less  the 
£50 it has previously offered, if it has paid that already) for the trouble it caused  her.
HSBC accepted my provisional findings.  Miss F didnt agree with what  Id said. She 
maintained she shouldnt be held responsible for being unable to reach  HSBC  on the phone. 
She said she struggled to get phone reception  where she lived and had to take care of family 
members who were  ill at the time. She said shed asked HSBC  to help her get back the 
rightful amount  she was owed and it should  refund  her that money.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to depart from my provisional conclusions. I know that will be disappointing  to Miss F so Ill 
explain why.
While Miss F says the amounts she asked HSBC  to reclaim on her behalf was money  she 
was rightfully owed, I think it would be helpful to explain what a chargeback is and HSBCs 
role in raising one.
A chargeback is a process for resolving payment settlement disputes between  card issuers 
and merchants, under the relevant card scheme  rules.
What that means  is that in some  circumstances HSBC  can ask for a transaction  to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services supplied by the merchant Miss F 
paid.
But the chargeback process  doesnt give Miss F legal rights and isnt guaranteed  to result  in 
a refund. There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback under the card scheme rules. 
Id consider it to be good practice  for HSBC to raise a chargeback if it would have a good 
chance of being successful. Its also worth  noting at this point  that chargebacks are decided  
on the card schemes  rules, which arent  something HSBC has any say over.  These rules 
include time limits on how quickly a chargeback needs to be raised.
Ref: DRN27769014In this case Miss F had told HSBC  she wasnt happy with a number of goods and services 
shed bought. But she didnt give enough detail  about exactly what  was wrong with the things 
shed paid for. In order to decide whether to raise any of the chargebacks  on her behalf  I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for HSBC to need  to know more  about what had happened.
HSBC wrote to Miss F on a number of occasions and sent multiple  SMS  messages to her 
explaining it needed to talk to her before it could do anything with her requests. Because  
Miss F hadnt spoken to HSBC before the card schemes time limits expired it didnt raise 
any chargebacks and its now too late to do so.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think its HSBCs fault that Miss F missed  
the card schemes  deadlines for raising  the chargebacks. It had told her she needed to call 
to discuss the disputes  in order to take them forward. While this might  not have  been  
Miss Fs preferred way of corresponding with HSBC  (and Ill return to that later)  I still dont 
think it was unreasonably difficult for Miss F to have been able to call HSBC  after it had 
made it clear  thats what she needed  to do.
I appreciate Miss F said shed struggled to get through  to the relevant  team  and found it hard 
to get reception  and make phone calls. But in her messages to HSBC Miss F referred to 
calling a number  of the merchants she was in dispute with. Overall I dont think  that, on 
balance, she was unable  to call HSBC at all. So I dont think  it would be fair to hold HSBC  
responsible for Miss Fs chargebacks not being raised in time. It follows  that it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require HSBC to refund  the amounts Miss F has challenged.
But I do think HSBC made it more inconvenient than it needed to for Miss F to get in touch 
about these transactions. And for the reasons  I gave in my provisional  decision I think  HSBC 
should compensate  Miss F for that inconvenience.  Having  thought  about everything  again I 
remain of the view that £250 would  be a fair sum.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct HSBC UK Bank  Plc to pay Miss F £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776901