K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998
alongside a credit card. Ms S says Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold
her the policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Although I have only included some  of the complaint points made by each party,  I have read 
and considered all the evidence and arguments available  to me from the outset, in order  to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.   
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms S originally  said she wasnt aware the PPI was optional and that it wasnt fair she had 
paid for it for so many  years without  knowing about  it. Our adjudicator  considered this, and 
all the other  information  supplied  and felt that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. In response,  Ms S 
now says she was told the PPI was compulsory  in order  to keep the card after the cooling off 
period, and so she agreed to take it out. Ive thought about this but Ive also considered that 
Ms Ss evidence has been inconsistent.  The PPI was sold a long time ago  around  11 years 
ago - which is also something I need to keep in mind  when deciding  what I think  is more 
likely to have happened.  
Both parties  agree the PPI was sold over the phone. Ive also seen screen shots  of Barclays 
internal system which shows  the PPI was taken  out around 8 years after Ms Ss credit card 
account had been opened. Unfortunately  there is no call recording for me to listen to, but as 
Ms S had already had the credit in place  and had been using it for years  I think  she wouldve 
known the policy was an optional extra. .
Barclays has also said that the PPI wouldve been presented as optional  and that it wouldve 
explicitly asked Ms S if she wanted the cover. And as the PPI was then applied to her 
account I think its likely she said yes to the policy.
So while I appreciate what Ms S has said, Ive had to take into account that her evidence  
has been inconsistent   and so its difficult to rely on what she has said alone  to conclude 
something untoward happened. In the absence of any evidence  to support what  Ms S has 
said, I think its likely Barclays  made  it clear  Ms S didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Our adjudicator assessed this case as a non-advised  sale and neither party responded to 
disagree with this, so I have also considered  this to have been a non-advised sale.  This 
means Barclays didnt  have to check if it was right for Ms S. But it did have to make sure she 
got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen, I think  the policy wouldve been useful for her 
Ref: DRN26801552if something went wrong. I say this because Ms S was eligible for the policy  and wouldnt 
have been affected by anything which might make it more difficult for her to make a claim, 
like having an existing  medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ms S says she was entitled to three months  sick pay from her employer and she had some  
savings at the time. But upon a successful  claim the PPI policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months, and in addition to and for longer than her sick pay and savings wouldve lasted. So 
these funds couldve been used for other  expenses. So I still think  she had a need  for this 
cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms S. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Ms S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Ms S any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2680155