K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about the outcome of a review  of her Zurich Assurance  Ltd whole-of-life 
policy. Shes unhappy shes been asked  to pay substantially more for the same  amount of 
cover.
background
Mrs W took out a whole-of-life policy with Zurich in 1999. Under the terms of the policy  
Zurich would pay a given amount (the sum assured) when Mrs W died, in return for a 
monthly premium. Both the sum assured and the premium would go up each year to account 
for inflation  known  as indexation.
Other than changes due to indexation, Zurich  guaranteed  the sum assured and premium  
would stay the same for ten years.  At that point the sum assured  would  drop to a lower value 
(the reduced sum), unless  Mrs W applied to keep it the same. If Mrs W wanted to keep the 
same sum assured then the policy said her premium would increase based on the 
assessment of an actuary.  This would  happen  at each 10th anniversary of the policy, until 
Mrs W turned 65. At the next review after that, the policy cover would automatically drop to 
the reduced sum.
Mrs Ws policy had its 10th anniversary review in 2009  when she elected  to increase her 
premium to keep her original sum assured. 
In 2015, Zurich changed the way it reviewed this type of policy.  This meant the policy would 
no longer automatically  reduce in cover  after she turned 65, but at the next review shed 
have a final chance to retain her sum assured in return  for a higher premium.
Mrs Ws policy was due for review again in early 2019. Zurich wrote  to her to explain her 
options now she was over 65. It said to keep her cover the same her premium would need to 
increase from about £120 a month to nearly  £350 a month.
Mrs W complained.  She said Zurich should  have shown  more  loyalty given shed held the 
policy for so long. And she thought  it was unfair  to ask her to pay so much more  just 
because she was getting older.
One of our investigators  looked into things, but didnt think Zurich  had done anything wrong. 
She explained Zurich had discretion to set the price  of its policies, and could reasonably  take 
factors including Mrs Ws age into account when it did so. She thought the change in 
premium was part of the normal operation of Mrs Ws policy so didnt recommend Zurich 
needed to do anything differently.
Mrs W disagreed  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. She said previous increases had 
always been at an acceptable level, and she felt this one was disproportionately  large.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mrs W feels about this complaint. And I understand her shock  at 
being asked to pay a lot more money to keep the same level of cover shed been  paying for 
Ref: DRN27315502over a number of years. But I dont think Zurich has treated  her unfairly  or unreasonably in 
the way its administered her policy at the latest review.  So I wont  be requiring it to offer 
cover on different terms or otherwise compensate  Mrs W.
Mrs Ws policy is an indexed whole-of-life  policy. So its important to separate the annual  
changes to her sum assured and premium  which increase by a modest amount each year 
to account for inflation  and the reviews which are carried out every ten years to ensure the 
policy can support the level of cover Zurich is providing.
Mrs Ws premium goes to two places. Part of it pays for the life cover Zurich provides, and 
part of it is invested.  The idea is that the investment pot grows over time, and can be used to 
offset the increasing cost of life cover   which naturally gets more expensive  as people get 
older and the risk of the insurer having to pay a claim  goes up.
At each  10th anniversary review Zurichs actuaries would  assess how much it would need to 
receive in premium to provide Mrs Ws life cover in future. And as Ive said,  Mrs Ws 
increasing age is something they can, and do, take into account in this calculation. The 
performance of the investment element of her policy can also affect  the premium  after a 
review.
As a result of this, the post-review premium on a reviewable life policy can often be higher, 
and sometimes much higher, than it was before. That is simply the normal  operation of this 
type of policy, and not necessarily a sign an insurers treated someone unfairly.
This risk of a large increase in premium is particularly present in the type of policy Mrs W 
took out. Here, the normal functioning of the policy was for the sum assured to drop 
significantly after ten years. While Mrs W had the option to keep  a higher sum assured at the 
10th and 20th anniversaries, its important to note this was the exception rather  than the rule 
in terms of the way the policy worked.
So not only would the cost of Mrs Ws life cover  increase over time, but shed in effect  be 
needing to pay to top-up her assured sum from the reduced amount to her existing amount 
following the review.  Thats  because the premium  Zurich  set at the outset had been 
calculated to provide  a high level of cover for ten years, and then a lower amount of cover 
after that.
I dont think its unreasonable therefore, that Mrs Ws choice to continue  getting a higher 
level of cover would entail a large increase to the premium shed need to pay.
So overall, while I have  sympathy for Mrs W after paying into this policy for so long,  I dont 
think Zurichs  done anything wrong in the way it has been administered. And I dont think the 
options it gave  her after the last review were unfair or unreasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ref: DRN27315503Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731550