K821x#15complaint
Ms O says TenetConnect  Limited gave  her unsuitable advice about transferring her defined  
benefits pension  into a personal pension  plan.
background
Ms O was a member of The Food & Drink Federation Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme 
 a defined benefits (DB) pension. She stopped paying into the scheme in 2002 at which 
time her annual pension  was worth around  £1,500 a year.
Ms O received guaranteed  statutory increases to her pension of up to 5% a year until she 
was 60 (the scheme retirement date). After this her pension wouldve increased in line with 
the retail price index.  The scheme also provided  other potential benefits  such  as ill-health  
retirement terms.
In 2016 Ms Os former  employer commissioned LEBC Group to advise members of its DB 
scheme about the option of transferring to personal pension arrangements.  It received fees 
for this work irrespective  of the recommendations given.
LEBC was an appointed representative  (AR) of TenetConnect, which as principal had 
responsibility for LEBCs acts and omissions. So, to keep things simple, Ill just refer to 
TenetConnect from this point onwards.
In September  2016 Ms O requested a comparison of the pension benefits  she had in her DB 
scheme with what might  be achievable through a transfer of her funds to a personal pension  
plan. TenetConnect  reviewed her circumstances and objectives and provided her with a 
suitability report in October 2016.  In summarising, its adviser said:
My overall recommendation  to transfer to a personal pension is made  because it satisfies  
your main priorities and provides favourable features such as a wide range of funds within  a 
competitive charging  structure.
In arriving  at my recommendation, I have focused on the critical yield required  (after taking 
Tax free cash)  to match projected benefits  at both age 55 and 60 (the realistic  age at which 
you are looking to access this pension),  your risk profile and your three main priorities.
Ms O was persuaded  to transfer her funds into an Aviva personal pension. This appears to 
have been given effect in early 2017.  But by the end of that year she raised various 
concerns about  what had happened,  including  the process that had been followed; the role 
of her financial adviser; and the performance  of the plan. She says the advice shed been 
given was unsuitable.
TenetConnect rejected Ms Os complaint points. In particular, it set out in some detail the 
background and approach it had taken  to giving her advice. It said its advice had been 
sound and suitable.
The investigators who looked into Ms Os case recommended it should be upheld. They 
didnt think transferring out of her DB scheme was appropriate. In particular because  of the 
benefits she was giving  up and taking into account reasonable projections of what  her new 
pension plan might  achieve. TenetConnect disagreed  and so Ms Os complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN25274142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im upholding  Ms Os complaint. Ill explain 
why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Ms Os case?
The first thing Ive considered in relation to Ms Os complaint is the extensive regulation 
around transactions like those performed  TenetConnect. The FCA Handbook contains 
eleven Principles  for businesses,  which it says are fundamental obligations firms  must  
adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like TenetConnect. As such, I need to have regard to them  
in deciding this case.
At the time of the advice TenetConnect gave Ms O, COBS 19.1.6 made the following 
specific point about advising  on the transfer  from DB schemes (bolding is my emphasis):
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  to transfer,  convert or opt-out,  a firm should start by 
assuming that a transferwill not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transferto be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the 
transferis in the clients  best interests.
In giving a personal  recommendation about the transfer, TenetConnect had to inform Ms O 
about the loss of safeguarded benefits  under her DB scheme and the consequent transfer of 
risk from it to her personal pension plan. For example:
-The potential for returns  in her new pension plan to fall short  of the benefits she 
couldve enjoyed in her DB scheme.
-Uncertainty about the level of benefit that could be obtained from the purchase of a 
future annuity. and prior to this the prior investment risk she would be exposed  to 
until an annuity was purchased with the proceeds of her personal  pension.
-The potential lack of availability of annuity  types (for instance, annuity  increases 
linked to different  indices) to replicate the benefits being given up in her DB scheme.
TenetConnect couldnt simply regard a rate of return which  might  replicate the benefits being 
given up by Ms O in her DB scheme as sufficient in itself to make a recommendation to 
transfer. It had to prepare a suitability report including a summary of the advantages and 
disadvantages of its recommendation;  an analysis of the financial implications to transfer; 
and a summary of any other material information such as the risks involved.
did TenetConnect adhere to the regulatory requirements placed  on it in advising  on the 
transfer of funds from Ms Os DB scheme  into a personal pension with Aviva?
Ref: DRN25274143In short,  I dont think TenetConnect  met the regulatory requirements  placed on it. Ill explain 
why.
Ms O was asked to prioritise seven statements about her retirement planning. TenetConnect 
based its recommendations around  the top three she selected, as follows:
-The potential to increase her pension above  that which her then DB scheme was 
likely to provide.
-The potential to retire  earlier  than the scheme's normal retirement age (60).
-Maximising death benefits to protect her family and/or dependants  if she were to die 
before retirement.
I mindful that Ms O was presented with a list of priorities and asked to rank them. Although  
possibly a helpful tool to aid discussion, I wouldve  like to have seen more narrative about 
what Ms Os objectives were in her own words.
Ms O told the investigator that the possibility of retiring early and improved death benefits 
were not her reasons for transfer. She said she transferred because  she was told she would  
be better off in a personal pension. Shed been  content with her previous DB scheme.  She 
says the main reason she transferred was because she was told by TenetConnect it would 
be beneficial. She said that her biggest  concern was always  ensuring  she had as much  
income as possible  in retirement.
We have a lot of information  from the fact-find  TenetConnect completed with Ms O. She was 
50 years  old at the time of the advice. In addition to the scheme being advised  on, Ms O had 
three other pensions. There  was a final salary scheme - the details of which werent 
captured in definitive terms  where the suggestion  was it would provide about £15,000 a 
year when she reached 65. Im surprised this information doesnt appear  to have been tied 
down - how could  TenetConnect have confidently assessed her total provision? Ms O also 
had a personal pension worth  around  £100k  and a much smaller policy worth around  £3k.
Ms O had a partner but wasnt married. She didnt have dependent  children. Ms O was 
employed, earning a good salary. She had assets,  such as a flat worth  about £300k which 
she rented  out. She also had modest liabilities, such as a small outstanding mortgage. She 
was in average health, but it was also noted that she had a heart  condition  that could lead to 
early retirement.
Ms O was assessed as having some knowledge of investments. She was comfortable with 
fluctuation in the value  of assets.  But she had no active  interest  in following investment 
markets or reviewing financial plans. A box was ticked to indicate  she understood the risks 
associated with the transfer  of her DB funds into a personal pension  plan.
Ms O completed an attitude to risk questionnaire. Her appetite was assessed  as low-
medium. The definition of this was:
Low Medium risk investors understand that they have to take some investment risk in order 
to be able to meet their long-term  goals. But are likely to only take risks with a small part of 
their available assets. They will usually  be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a 
gamble provided  that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They  will 
usually be able to make up their minds  on financial matters relatively quickly but do still 
suffer from feelings of regret  when their decisions turn out badly.
Ref: DRN25274144Theres no dispute Ms Os top priority was understand if she could increase her pension  
benefits compared with what could be achieved  from her DB scheme.  She told us:
When I was advised to move my pension by [TenetConnect]I thought they had given the 
advice because they believed it was clearly  better  for me to move pensions and that Id be 
better off by a substantial  margin  if I did so. 
The statement  Ms O selected  as second  priority from the list of statements about her 
retirement was to achieve flexibility  to retire early if possible, although  she didnt think  shed 
be able to afford this.
TenetConnect obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS)  in respect of Ms Os DB scheme. 
One of the important findings here was identification of the critical yield  the level of returns 
her new personal pension would need  to achieve  in order for the transfer from her DB 
scheme to match  her existing pension.
The report  found  an annual  return  of 5.1%  would  be required by a new personal pension 
plan if she retired at 60, irrespective of whether she took tax free cash.  If she retired early,  
say when she was 55, the equivalent  rate was 4.8%. Unsurprisingly, these projections 
produce very similar outcomes to the FCAs mid-rate growth  assumption  of 5% firms used 
for illustrations.
However, TenetConnects advice was given during the period when this Service published  
'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments  where a complaint about a past 
pension transfer  was being upheld.  Whilst businesses  weren't required to refer to these rates  
when giving advice,  I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates  wouldve 
been considered reasonably achievable  when  the advice was given in Ms Os case.
As stated, the critical yield required to match the DB scheme at the normal  retirement date 
was 5.1%  per year. This compares with an annual discount rate of about 3.7%  per year 
given it was around 9 years to Ms Os 60 birthday. The shortfall of 1.4%  is significant.  The 
equivalent figure for early retirement  at 55 was about 3.1%, an even larger gap of 1.7% 
below the critical yield TenetConnect advised.
The comparable growth rates  this Service used were based  on a typical investment spread 
across shares and bonds. So, its arguable  that if Ms O had a high appetite for risk, the 
investment portfolio selected in that case couldve held out the prospect  of higher returns  
sufficient to make up the gap with the critical yield.
Im not persuaded this was the situation  in Ms Os case. The aim of the investment strategy 
in the scenario Ive set out wouldve been to exceed  the critical yield to make  the additional 
risk taken worthwhile. And this wouldve been required over a reasonable period of time.
Crucially, we know that Ms O had a low-medium outlook to risk. Her responses  to the 
questionnaire are telling  on this point. For example, she preferred investments that were low 
risk and relatively safe even if the returns were  lower than could be achieved  elsewhere. And 
it was her priority  was to protect  the money  she had. Ms O also had less than 10 years until 
she retired, and perhaps as few as 5 years.
Ref: DRN25274145TenetConnect noted Ms Os capacity for loss. I agree that she did have other important 
pension provision and assets. But I dont consider this a convincing  line of argument  given 
what we know about her attitude to risk and her stated  priority. A capacity for incurring some 
loss doesnt alter the fact she had a low-medium  investment risk outlook.
So, based  on TenetConnects  own analysis  at the time, the transfer  of Ms Os DB funds to a 
personal pension  offered  negligible if any value  in terms of the two top priorities identified. 
Actually, given the discount rates in use at the time,  the transfer was more  likely to have had 
the potential to erode the value of her benefits. This was substantive  grounds  for 
TenetConnect to have  advised Ms O to remain with her DB scheme provider. That is unless 
there were other even more compelling reasons  for the transfer to proceed.
Ive thought carefully about the third priority Ms O selected from the list of seven she was 
presented with  to maximise her death  benefits  if she were  to die before retirement. Its 
clear the benefits  available to Ms Os potential beneficiaries were she to pass  away prior to 
retirement were much  greater  from a personal pension. Thats because her DB scheme  
didnt pay a lump sum and she wasnt married and so didnt qualify for a spouses pension.  
Such benefits couldve been  substantial  were they ever to be called on.
The question I must consider is, were these substantial death benefits alone  reason enough  
for Ms O to transfer from her DB scheme? I note from the fact-find that she did report having 
a heart  condition. But I dont think this was a pressing matter or at the forefront of her 
consideration. I say this because if it had been, I think  it wouldve warranted more significant  
exploration in the suitability report.  And I think shed have given the matter a higher priority.
Actually, it was recorded that Ms O was in average health. As such, if there had been a 
concern about  death before retirement  then as TenetConnect set out in the suitability report,  
she couldve  secured  level term assurance  for around £11 per month. Or indeed  life 
insurance cover. But it concluded:
In your case I have discounted the use of an insurance to achieve  your objectives as I am 
recommending a transfer following  which the position for your beneficiaries  on death when 
compared to the scheme benefits  will be improved  as the lump sum death benefits  is greater 
at outset.
The problem for TenetConnect  here is that, even if I accepted provision  of death benefits 
was an important objective for Ms O, the contemporaneous evidence  doesnt show the 
transfer wouldve  helped  her meet the two higher  priorities identified. And there was a good  
solution for any concerns about  her passing away before  retiring.
So, overall, I dont  think the lack of death  benefit  provision in Ms Os DB scheme at the time 
of the advice outweighed  what  shes consistently  stated was her main priority.  The fact-find 
confirms she wanted to maximise the benefits  payable to her during her lifetime  and that her 
partner already had significant pension benefits and/or other assets  in their own name.
I accept these matters are rarely straight-forward. For example, its recorded Ms O didnt 
foresee a change  in her marital status  and that she didnt currently have joint finances  with 
her partner. But they were  considering the purchase  of a property together in the future,  at 
which point they wouldve  combined their finances.
Ref: DRN25274146When people make often  irreversible decisions to transfer out of DB schemes its important 
they fully understand the consequences.  Thats why its important to tease  out the key issues  
in each individuals circumstances  through discussion and reflect back on the rationale  for 
pivotal decisions in the advice process.  From what Ive seen in this case, TenetConnect 
hasnt done enough to satisfy me in this regard.
Ms O later raised  the issue of the impact of the transfer on other benefits she couldve had 
access to in her former scheme, such as the ill health retirement provisions. On that 
particular matter the TVAS report said:
The majority of final salary  occupational  pension schemes have the scope to pay enhanced  
benefits to members who wish to retire early  due to ill-health. The level of enhancement,  and 
indeed, whether any such enhancement will be paid is usually at the discretion of the 
scheme trustees on a case by case basis. This potential benefit will however be lost upon 
transfer to a Personal Pension.
Despite TenetConnect  knowing about Ms Os heart condition and that this might lead to 
early retirement, its only additional  comment about the cover shed be giving up if 
transferring was:
In view of this [loss of benefit],  if you wish to pursue this as an option [ill-health retirement] 
we would recommend you contact the trustees  directly as soon  as possible. Our advice has 
been based on your accessing benefits normally and not under any ill health provisions.
This was the extent  of TenetConnects advice about  Ms Os ill-health retirement benefits. 
This was on page  32 of the 38-page suitability report. Given  what  it knew about her situation  
it shouldve given more  prominence to this matter  and developed its advice further. 
TenetConnect has subsequently  made  reasonable arguments about the actuarial 
considerations that wouldve come  into play had Ms O been granted  ill-health  retirement by 
her DB scheme. And about the availability of enhanced  annuities  funded by personal 
pension funds for people with health  conditions. These should come to the fore in its 
suitability report with comparisons made so she could make  an informed decision.
TenetConnect confirmed  that in normal circumstances it may well have recommended  that 
Ms O waited until nearer retirement before considering a transfer.  But it said that she was 
being offered  a generous enhancement of nearly 22% to move out of the scheme. And given 
that it concluded her top three priorities could be better met through  a personal pension, on 
balance it decided to recommend she transfer.
For the reasons Ive set out, by recommending the transfer of Ms Os DB scheme  funds to a 
personal pension  I dont think TenetConnect was acting  with due care or diligence,  nor 
acting fairly  and in her best interests.
I think  TenetConnect shouldve  advised Ms O to remain with her DB scheme. Ive concluded 
that her first two priorities, to maximise her fund and to retire  earlier  were  not clearly 
advanced by the transfer despite  the enhanced transfer value on offer. Indeed,  given the 
discount rates applicable at the time it was more likely she couldve lost ground,  especially 
given her low-medium risk appetite. Any concerns about the death  benefits available  to her 
prior to retirement couldve been dealt with satisfactorily via another provision such  as life 
insurance.
Ref: DRN25274147putting things right
As Im upholding Ms Os complaint a fair and reasonable  outcome would be, as far as 
possible, for TenetConnect to put her back into the position she wouldve been  in now,  but 
for the unsuitable  advice it gave her.
TenetConnect should explore if its possible for her to be put back  into her former DB 
scheme. If this is possible,  it should  pay any relevant fees and charges to give this effect .
If it isnt possible for Ms O to regain  membership  of her former  scheme  with the same  
benefits, TenetConnect must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated  by the FCA in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, using the most recent 
financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should  
be undertaken or submitted  to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Ms Os acceptance  of the decision.
TenetConnect may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP)  to obtain  
Ms Os contribution history  to the State  Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the former scheme  on her entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any past loss 
(i.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Ms O wouldve  already  received from her former 
scheme) should be paid to her as a lump sum.
Any compensation in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Ms Os 
personal pension  plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  
tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If any future  loss payment  into the pension isnt possible  or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Ms O as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
For example, if Ms O wouldve been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% wouldve been  taxed according to 
her likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So, making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the future loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So, it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Ms O 
within 90 days of the date TenetConnect receives notification  of her acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 
90 days, that it takes TenetConnect  to pay Ms O this compensation.
Ref: DRN25274148Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90-day period allowed for above   and so any period where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP,  time may 
be added  to the 90-day period in which interest wont  apply.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Ms Os complaint. So, TenetConnect  
Limited must  pay any compensation due to her as Ive indicated  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2527414