K821x#15complaint
Miss N has complained about the loans CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) gave 
to her. She has said she couldnt afford her loan repayments and she shouldnt have been  
given these loans.
background
Miss N had three loans  with QuickQuid between April 2014 and March  2015. From the 
information provided, the loans were as follows:
loan 
numberdate taken amount date 
repaid
1 13/04/14 £400 29/08/14
2 09/10/14       £100 15/03/15
3 15/03/15 £400balance  
outstanding
Miss N had two payday loans and one flex credit  account and I can see that she has fully 
repaid loans 1 and 2 but theres a balance outstanding on loan 3. Miss N rolled  over  the 
repayment of loan 1 twice  before fully repaying it. In June 2015, Miss N told QuickQuid she 
was in financial difficulties  and needed  extra time to repay the loan in instalments. QuickQuid 
set up a payment  plan for the repayment  of loan. But Miss N didnt keep up with the payment 
plan and QuickQuid  has said it recorded a default  on her credit  file and passed the 
outstanding debt to a third party debt collection agency.
Miss N complained to QuickQuid about her loans,  it didnt uphold her complaint. It said it 
thought it carried  out sufficient checks before lending to her. Unhappy with the response, 
Miss N referred her complaint to this service where  it was looked at by one of our 
adjudicators.
Our adjudicator didnt  think QuickQuid carried out sufficient checks before lending any of the 
loans. They thought that had QuickQuid carried out sufficient checks,  its likely  to have found 
that Miss N could afford to repay loans 1 and 2 but she was unable  to afford the repayment 
for loan 3 and QuickQuid  wouldnt  have  lent her that loan. QuickQuid disagreed that it should 
have done more before lending loan 3, it said its checks for the loans it approved from 
1 March 2015 were  sufficient and asked for an ombudsmans review. Miss N didnt disagree 
with the adjudicators findings.
As this complaint  hasnt been resolved, it has come  to me  an ombudsman   for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint . Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  QuickQuid lent to Miss N. 
The FCAs Principles for Business  (PRIN) set out the high level standards  which  all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN  2.1.1 R (6) says A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
Ref: DRN28372872The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific  to consumer credit 
providers, such as QuickQuid. At the time, these required  lenders to take reasonable steps  
to assess the customers  ability  to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement  in a 
sustainable manner  without the customer incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing 
significant adverse  consequences.- CONC 5.3.1G (2).
CONC 5.3.1G (6) defined  sustainable as being  able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. It went on to explain that this means the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; and without having to 
borrow to meet the repayments.
So  treating customers fairly in the context  of providing credit  meant  assessing  their ability  
to repay  the credit  in a sustainable way. And how should  lenders have gone  about making 
these assessments?
CONC 5.2.3 G said that:
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  in 
a given case, should be dependent  upon  and proportionate to factors which  may include one 
or more  of the following:
(1)the type of credit;
(2)the amount  of the credit;
(3)the cost of the credit;
(4)the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
(5)the customer's credit history,  including any indications that the customer is 
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties;
(6)the customer's existing financial commitments  including any repayments due in 
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated  mortgage 
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity,  gas, telecommunications, water  
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7)any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8)any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably  expected to have a
significant financial adverse impact  on the customer;
(9)the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the 
customer has some form of mental  capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to 
be so because the customer displays indications of some  form of mental capacity 
limitation.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) said that A firm should consider what  is appropriate  in any particular 
circumstances dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being sought and 
the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates to 
the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers 
financial situation.
Ref: DRN28372873And CONC 5.2.4G(3) said that A firm should  consider the types  and sources of information  
to use in its  assessment  which may, depending on the circumstances,  include  some  or 
all of the following:
(a)its record of previous dealings;
(b)evidence of income;
(c)evidence of expenditure;
(d)a credit score;
(e)a credit reference agency report; and
(f)information provided by the customer.
It is important  to note here that the FCA didnt,  and doesnt, specify  exactly  how the 
assessment is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit to its satisfaction,  but of the risk to the 
consumer of incurring  financial difficulties or experiencing  significant  adverse consequence 
as a result  of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible  what is sufficient for one consumer might  
not be for another,  or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance 
might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances.
what should have  happened when Miss N  applied for credit  and did QuickQuid get this 
right?
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, 
for example, Id expect a lender to seek more  assurance by carrying out more detailed  
checks;
-the higher  the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship.
In coming to a decision on Miss Ns complaint,  where QuickQuid agreed three loans, Ive 
considered the following questions:
did QuickQuid complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing 
Miss Ns loan applications to satisfy  itself that she would be able to repay  the loan in 
a sustainable  way? (And if not, would those  checks have shown that she would have 
been able to do so?)
did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
did QuickQuid carry out proportionate checks when  assessing Miss Ns loan applications to 
satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a sustainable way?
Ref: DRN28372874I dont think that QuickQuids checks before lending any of the loans went  far enough. 
QuickQuid has told us what checks it carried out before lending to Miss N. It has said it 
searched her credit  file before granting  each loan and also checked her income and 
expenses as well. I can see that the first entry  of Miss Ns expenses within the information 
provided by QuickQuid was recorded in May 2014  the month after it agreed  to lend her 
loan 1. Although  its a month after loan 1 was taken, its likely Miss Ns circumstances would 
have been similar at the time of the loan.
QuickQuid hasnt provided the full result of its search into Miss Ns credit file so I dont know  
exactly what it saw. But Miss N has provided  a copy of her credit file and from what I can 
see, at the time of these  loans, there  were  no defaults or county court judgements  (CCJs) 
recorded on her file. QuickQuids records show that Miss Ns income varied  from £900  to 
£1,400 and her recorded  expenses varied from around £250  to £935.
Neither QuickQuid nor Miss N has disputed  the adjudicators findings on loans 1 and 2 and 
so Im not going  into the details of these loans here. But Ive reviewed these loans and I 
agree with the adjudicator  that  QuickQuids checks  should  have  gone  further  and had it 
carried out sufficient  checks, its likely to have found  that the loans were affordable for 
Miss N and so I dont think QuickQuid was wrong  to lend to her.
Turning to loan 3, Ive concluded  that QuickQuid was irresponsible to lend to Miss N 
because I dont think the checks it carried out went far enough. And proportionate  checks  
are likely to have shown  that Miss N was unable to afford to repay this loan. So I am 
upholding Miss Ns complaint about loan 3 I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for 
QuickQuid and Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
QuickQuid has explained in some detail how it carried out its assessment of Miss Ns loan 
application. It said that the assessment was conducted properly and that by the                    
1 March 2015 it had implemented [an] affordability review that is consistent with the FCA 
Handbook.
QuickQuid says that it began implementing changes to its affordability  assessment in 
June 2014, and all the changes were  completed by 28 February  2015this  assessment was 
conducted properly  and individually for this last loan.
In response to our adjudication In response  to FOS assessment which recommends 
CashEuroNet UK uphold loans which were funded after March 2015,  we regret to inform you 
that we cannot  agree  to FOS recommendations.
It also sent this service a 13 page documents predominantly detailing  its general approach to 
lending after March  2015. The document isnt specific to Miss Ns complaint and doesnt 
show me its specific assessment of Miss Ns loan application
With this document,  QuickQuid seems to be saying that because it reviewed its processes 
and incorporated  regulatory changes as it was required to, all loans for all customers  granted 
from 1 March 2015 onwards were granted responsibly. 
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow that a firm cant  have treated any consumer 
unfairly simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA. This assumes 
that an authorised  firms regulated activities are always  implemented  in a way that results in 
fair outcomes for all consumers. This is not the case, as the experience of this Service  bears 
out.1 
Ref: DRN28372875QuickQuid says that the checks it conducts  at the time of lending  are proportionate in every  
circumstance. And it considers these checks to have been  enhanced through  its review.  But, 
as Ive explained above, the FCA is not prescriptive  about how the relevant rules and 
guidance set out in CONC should  be implemented, specifically CONC does not set out how 
a lender ought to go about its affordability assessments. 
The CONC  guidance does say the assessment that should be carried out is dependent on 
what is appropriate for both the consumers circumstances and the particulars  of the loan in 
question. So it doesnt follow that a standard way of assessing  loan applications, whatever 
the extent  and scope of it or whatever the type and source of information it uses  is 
automatically the right thing to do for all consumers in all circumstances. And so I cant  pre-
judge Miss Ns complaint  about irresponsible lending on the basis that the affordability check  
QuickQuid carried out was the right thing to do in her case. 
There are also other considerations which this Service is required  to take into account when 
making determinations on complaints. As the FCA Handbook sets out in the rules and 
guidance relevant to dispute handing  The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.  
(DISP 3.6.1R)
So, Im required to consider more  than the rules  and guidance set out by the regulators in 
making my determination on a complaint.  And so I wouldnt  be acting in accordance with my 
statutory role if I only considered the extent to which QuickQuid complied with rules and
guidance set out by the FCA in my determination.
Before QuickQuid lent this loan, it recorded Miss Ns income  as £1,400  and her monthly  
expenses as £425. This included her housing, utilities, transport, food, other  credit  
commitment and other expenses. But given that Miss N had now either been borrowing and 
repaying QuickQuid  for about a year by this time, she requested  this loan on the same day 
she repaid loan 2 and she had struggled  to repay  loan 1 when it was due, QuickQuid should 
have been doing more  before agreeing to lend this loan.
QuickQuid has said Our assessment for affordability especially focuses on validating 
Monthly Credit Commitments  expense category to ensure that any short  term credit and 
payments are included  in the category. To this effect, we validate the reasonableness  of the 
customers self-reported expense amount with the CRA data to ensure the customer  is being 
truthful and providing  an accurate picture of his or her financial situation,  including any of the 
customers other high cost short term loans. Given this external validation process which has 
been in place since 01 March 2015, we firmly believe our checks  went far enough with 
respect to verify customer expenses.
QuickQuid goes on to say that it uses  this validated data to determine  a customers  
estimated disposable income. And based  on this QuickQuid estimated Miss Ns disposable 
income to be £348. QuickQuid hasnt provided the result of this validation or given a full 
explanation about the calculation behind how it arrived at this figure.  
QuickQuid also said the total cost of the loan was £307.20 and this was 27% of Miss Ns 
disposable income over the three  month term to repay this loan. This statement  seems to 
suggest that Miss N wasnt  due to repay  the capital she borrowed from QuickQuid. Miss N 
1 http://www.ombudsman-complaints-data.org.uk
Ref: DRN28372876had to repay the capital and the interest and based on QuickQuids  own calculation of her 
estimated disposable income, she didnt have sufficient disposable income  to repay  the 
maximum of £492.80. The loan was for £400  due to be repaid in three  payments - £118.40, 
£96 and a final payment  of £492.80
Ive tried to reconstruct Miss Ns circumstances  at the time of this loan and from the 
information Ive seen, Miss N didnt  have any disposable income left to repay this loan. And 
had QuickQuid carried out a full review  of her circumstances including  verifying some of the 
information its likely to have found that her income  was around £1,350. Miss N was in more  
than one repayment plan and was borrowing  substantial  sums from other payday lender. At 
the time of this loan, she had more than £400  outstanding in short term loans.  Effectively, 
her outgoings exceeded  her income and I cant see how she could sustainably afford the 
loan repayments.
In QuickQuids 13 page document, it says that where the final balloon  payment of the loan 
exceeds the validated estimated disposable  income for that last month, the customer  must 
read and check a box that advises them of the fact that they may need  to save income from 
the previous months in order to have  sufficient funds to pay the final payment.  
The declaration states:
By checking this box you acknowledge  you can afford to make a repayment  of [£X] on 
[date] and [£Y] on [date]. You acknowledge that you understand your final repayment is 
greater than you[r] normal disposable  income and you may need to save  money over the life 
of the loan in order  to make the final repayment out of disposable income. 
I dont know the context within which this statement appeared,  or how prominent it was. But 
irrespective of this, advising Miss N that she may need to take some  action  in order  to be 
able to make  a repayment that is more than the money she would usually have available to 
her does not take away QuickQuids own responsibility to assess  whether or not the loan 
was going to be sustainably affordable for Miss N. 
CONC 5.2.1(2) (b) R stated that a creditworthiness assessment  needed to consider  the 
ability of the customer  to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the credit 
agreement 
If QuickQuid felt Miss N needed to take some extra  action to meet her loan repayments 
when they were due, this suggests that it understood that there was a risk that she wouldnt 
be able repay her loan the way it was structured  unless  preventative  action was taken. It 
then left this to Miss N to address.  It didnt, for example,  offer to structure the loan 
repayments to reflect  its expectations of Miss Ns money management. 
QuickQuid seems to suggesting  that Miss N would have saved over the first two months 
before she needed to make the balloon  repayment  in month three  but it hasnt specifically 
said why it thought this would be reasonable in Miss Ns specific  circumstances. In any 
event, my assessment of Miss Ns circumstances at the time showed that she had no 
disposable income left. And as a responsible lender, QuickQuid shouldnt have lent her loan 
3.
did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?  
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
Ref: DRN28372877that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss N in some  
other way.  
putting things right
As I dont think QuickQuid should  have given Miss N loan 3 in March 2015,  I require  
QuickQuid to:
refund  any interest and charges  Miss N paid towards this loan
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to the amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
as theres an outstanding balance on Miss Ns account, QuickQuid can offset the 
balance with the redress and any surplus should  be paid to Miss N.
QuickQuid should buy back Miss Ns debt before making any deductions to the 
redress. If its unable to buy back the debt then it shouldnt make  any deductions 
from the settlement  figure.
remove any adverse information  including the default recorded on Miss Ns credit  file 
in relation to this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
must give Miss N a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ns complaint in part and require CashEuroNet  UK LLC to put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2837287