K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a used car he paid for in part with credit  provided by TSB Bank plc was 
of unsatisfactory  quality.  He brings this complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974.  
background
Mr F got this car on 14 February 2018.  The car broke down shortly after and Mr F had 
concerns about  the gearbox  - amongst other  things - so he got in touch  with the dealer. 
The dealer  said any issues should  be covered by a warranty Mr F bought  when he got the 
car. But Mr F says the warranty provider  told him the gearbox wasnt  covered - as its not an 
internal fault. 
Mr F paid the £200 deposit for the car with his TSB credit card so he phoned TSB to 
complain. TSB said it would need to see some  evidence  of whats  gone  wrong  and 
suggested Mr F should get an independent  report. Mr F took the car to two local garages  for 
checks and hes been told it needs repairs that are likely to cost over £6,000.  
The dealer  that sold the car to Mr F says not all of these repairs  are faults in a car of this 
age and mileage  and it thinks the estimated cost looks too high. The dealer offered to collect 
the car, have it checked by a third party specialist (in this particular type of vehicle) and 
arrange for any faults found to be fixed.  TSB thinks thats a reasonable offer and any liability 
it has under  section 75 has been discharged. 
Mr F says the dealer didnt want to know when he first got in touch and he has no faith that 
repairs will be done properly. Hed rather TSB (or the dealer) pay for a garage near him to do 
the work  or - if thats unacceptable - take the car back and provide a full refund. 
Our investigator is satisfied that this car seems to have a significant number of serious faults.  
He thinks it was probably of unsatisfactory quality  when it was sold. And, in view of the 
number of faults and the time its likely to take to repair, he recommends  Mr F should be 
allowed to reject the car and receive  a refund. 
TSB doesnt think this is fair. It says the dealer should have the chance to repair under 
legislation and Mr F has been offered a reasonable resolution to his complaint. It asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the matter.  
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 21 June 2018  and Ive set out a summary  of my 
provisional findings below. 
Section 75 gives consumers an equal right to claim against a supplier of goods  or services 
or the credit provider,  in certain circumstances. I make my decision based  on what  I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances  taking relevant law into account among 
other things.  And Section  75 is relevant to whether TSB has taken appropriate steps  in 
response to Mr Fs complaint. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  says this car should have been  of satisfactory quality 
when it was sold to Mr F - and consumers  have a short term right to reject faulty goods 
within 30 days of sale. The level of quality thats  considered to be satisfactory will vary 
Ref: DRN25968122depending on the circumstances. In the case of most cars its generally thought to be 
reasonable to take age, cost and mileage at the point of sale into account.  
This car was around fourteen years  old with over 90,000 miles on the clock and cost just 
over £5,500. As such,  I think  a reasonable person  would appreciate  theres likely to be some 
wear and tear present  and parts  will probably  need  to be replaced  sooner or later - and thats 
reflected in the price paid. 
I have spoken  to Mr F and hes explained that he owned this car some  years ago. He kept it 
well maintained so he was interested when it came  up for sale again. He spoke  to the dealer 
- located  some distance away - on the phone and felt reassured that the car was still in 
excellent condition.  He flew down and took the car on a test drive. He says his ability  to take 
a close look was bit limited by poor weather but he took some comfort in paying the deposit 
by credit card and agreed to buy the car. 
Mr F was able to drive the car about  400 miles home but it broke down  the next day. Over 
the next week or so he became concerned about the gearbox and the cars overall  condition.  
He had it checked by a local garage and found theres a problem with the gearbox - which 
will cost about £1,200 to fix and isnt covered by the warranty.  After  speaking to TSB Mr F 
had the car checked by another garage, M, and it found a number of issue. I accepted this 
was a long list and, taken with the fact the car broke down within 24 hours of purchase,  I 
could see why our investigator  thought it was likely the car was sold with significant faults. 
From speaking to Mr F however, I understood the reason the car broke down was that it 
had in fact run out of fuel. I accept  this was due to a faulty fuel gauge. But I think  its 
important and relevant  to note that the car didnt break down as a result of some problem 
with the engine or other mechanical  issue. 
I think it is entirely understandable that Mr F was unhappy to see the list of issues  identified 
by M. He says this work is required to make  the car roadworthy. And, given the price he 
paid, its uneconomical to repair so he should just be allowed to reject  the car. But, the car 
passed an MOT with only one advisory two weeks  before it was sold to Mr F. I think  that 
indicates the car was considered roadworthy  at that point - and it seems unlikely, on 
balance, that the car had become unroadworthy by the point of sale.      
I accept the standard of quality Mr F was reasonably entitled to here is probably a bit higher 
than that required  to pass an MOT. But, I think some  of the items  on the list look as if theyre  
probably wear and tear related - and, as such, might  reasonably be expected to be present 
in a car of this age and mileage. On the evidence I have at the moment, I cant be sure 
which (if any) of the issues  listed should reasonably be considered a fault.  And, even if I 
were to accept that its likely some of these are defects - meaning this car probably wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale - I have to consider the appropriate remedy.  
The CRA says a purchaser like Mr F has the short term right to reject faulty goods but that 
right must be exercised within the first thirty  days of purchase.  On the current  evidence,  I am 
not satisfied that Mr F did so here.  And I cant fairly  find he should be entitled to reject  the 
car now, solely on that basis. After the first 30 days the CRA allows  for a price reduction or a 
final right to reject goods if:-
there has already  been one repair or replacement  and there is still a problem;
repair or replacement  is impossible or disproportionate; or
Ref: DRN25968123the consumer  has asked for a repair or replacement but the trader hasnt done so in 
a reasonable time and without significant  inconvenience to the consumer.
Taking everything I have  seen into account,  I am minded to find the appropriate remedy here 
would be to give TSB (or the dealer) an opportunity to repair. I am satisfied the dealer 
offered to do that in April 2018. I have seen  emails the dealer sent to TSB then, offering to 
have the car collected from Mr F, taken to a third party specialist for inspection, have any 
faults fixed and return the car to Mr F - all at no cost to him. 
I appreciate Mr F had concerns about the dealer - because he felt it didnt take his complaint 
seriously at first and he was worried that an email address didnt look right. But, I cant  fairly 
find that Mr F should be entitled  to reject the car on those grounds.  I think its reasonable to 
give the dealer  the chance  to have this car checked  and get any defects  (beyond  wear and 
tear) that were present at the point of sale repaired.  
I understand TSB has already  refunded  £240  to Mr F for diagnostic checks  that he paid for. 
If Im wrong about that please let me know. It looks as if Mr F has also paid for some  repairs 
which he says were  required to keep the car on the road. But, this seems to have happened  
after the dealer offered to have the car fixed in April last year. So, whilst I am sorry to 
disappoint Mr F, I dont think I can reasonably require  TSB to refund those costs. 
Based on everything  Ive seen so far, I dont think TSB has acted unfairly  in response to 
Mr Fs complaint. Im satisfied it considered  his claim for breach of contract  and contacted 
the dealer who offered to fix any faults at no cost to Mr F within a reasonable time. TSB says 
it will consider the matter again if the problems arent fixed and I think that sounds fair. If 
Mr F then has reason to complain to TSB and hes unhappy with the response,  he may be 
able to bring another complaint to this service.  
I invited both parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
evidence or comments by 5 July 2019.  I said Id review everything again after that and make  
my final decision.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
TSB accepted my provisional conclusions and had nothing further to add. Mr F is most 
disappointed and said (in summary):-
TSB is jointly and severally  liable  with the supplier under section 75 and it has failed 
in its duty of care to him as a customer;
the car was misrepresented and faulty  and the warranty is unfit for purpose;  
he remains concerned  about the dealers business set-up  and refers  me to on-line 
reviews; 
the dealer wouldnt  take responsibility when Mr F contacted him initially  and it didnt 
get back to TSB within the time limit TSB gave; and 
its unfair to give the dealer another chance to put things right at this stage. 
Ref: DRN25968124I have considered everything  Mr F has said carefully. I understand he feels  TSB owed him a 
duty of care and should have done  more to help. But, as I explained in my provisional 
conclusions, what I have  to consider  here is whether TSB has taken appropriate  steps in 
response to Mr Fs complaint. 
Ive seen nothing  to show that Mr F paid for the warranty with credit  provided by TSB. 
For the reasons  Ive given already, I remain of the view that the offer thats been made is 
reasonable - and proportionate. I appreciate this offer was made  outside  of the time limit 
TSB set for a response when it first got in touch with the dealer. But, I am not persuaded 
that means I should  not reasonably take it into account. 
I know Mr F has serious misgivings about the dealers actions and intentions - but I cant 
fairly uphold  this complaint on those grounds, from the evidence I have seen. I think the 
dealer made a reasonable offer to have the car checked by a third party and fix any faults 
found. And TSB says it will consider this matter again if the problems arent fixed.  If Mr F 
has reason to complain  to TSB then,  and hes unhappy with its response,  he may be able to 
bring another complaint  to this service.  
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr F wanted and Im sorry its taken some time to reach this 
point. But, I am not persuaded  that there are enough fair and reasonable grounds to uphold  
this complaint - in that I cant fairly require TSB to do more than has already been offered. 
I leave it to Mr F to decide if he wants to contact TSB and/or the dealer to accept the offer.  If 
he doesnt, he remains free to pursue  any legal  rights  he may have against those parties.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint - in that I do not 
require TSB Bank Plc to do more  than has been offered already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2596812