K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say The Co-operative Bank Plc, Britannia Building Society at the time, 
(Co-op) mis-sold  them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy at a meeting in 1996, around  five months after taking a 
further advance  on their existing mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. For a successful claim it would pay £360  a month to help Mr and Mrs H with their 
mortgage and related  costs for up to 12 months. Co-op says the policy  cost £10.82  a month
Mr H was an accountant. Hes told us hed been  with his employer four years at the time of 
the sale, but from what was said on the further  advance application, from five months earlier, 
hed been with his employer seven  months  at most. Mrs H wasnt in employment  at the time. 
Aside from any entitlement  Mr H had to redundancy pay, Mr and Mrs H have told us they 
didnt have other means, like savings,  to pay the mortgage with if Mr H was unemployed. 
Mr H told us of having  treatment for a health issue around fourteen  years before the sale.  
Co-op has sent us evidence  to show the mortgage  account closed in 2003. Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Co-op  should  have  told Mr and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN27388682Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Co-op  at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case.
 
Ref: DRN27388683Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Co-op was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Hs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Co-op, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs H have said they had no 
interest in PPI and have  said it was just included with their mortgage package.  But their 
further advance  application form gave the option to say either  yes or no to further details of 
the PPI  indicating this was optional. On Mr and Mrs Hs form this was answered  yes. Also 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was already in place, and the further advance  had already been 
offered and started,  before Mr and Mrs H signed  the application form to apply for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN27388684So I dont  think the PPI was just included  with the lending package.  The use of a separate  
form for the PPI, needing to be signed separately, wouldve also tended to suggest the PPI 
was something separate. Also, as Mr and Mrs H already had the mortgage and further 
advance when they signed  this, I think it likely  they wouldve known they didnt have to have 
the PPI to have  the lending  and known  the PPI was something separate.  
The PPI application  form was marked to request unemployment cover only (accident and 
sickness cover was available  instead or as well). Ive not seen  anything  to make  me think  
Mr and Mrs H were pressured into opting  for the PPI or into opting  for unemployment cover 
and not accident and sickness  cover. Taking  everything into account,  I think  its more likely  
Mr and Mrs H knew the policy was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Co-op provide  advice?
Co-op says it didnt provide advice during the sale. With what  Mr and Mrs H have told us in 
mind, Im persuaded Co-op didnt  provide  advice.  This means Co-op  didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H. Instead,  it had to give them sufficient,  appropriate 
and timely  information  to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
policy, including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  related payments 
if Mr H were unable to work due to unemployment)  and of the approximate costs.  I have  
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Co-op  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take the policy.  
So I dont  think Co-op gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN27388685-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Co-op ought to have done either. 
what effect did Co-ops  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent  did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Co-op  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Co-op  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs H had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr H being unable to work. As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs H chose to 
take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to conclude they had some interest in the 
benefits offered  by this type of insurance.  But they made this decision based on incomplete 
information. So what they thought they were getting is not exactly what  they got. The extent 
to which  this differed  is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs H have 
suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt  appear Co-op  told them the exact premium  when  they 
applied. But, as Ive said, I dont think it likely they wouldve taken  the PPI without an idea of 
the approximate  cost. 
Also, when they started to pay for the PPI, if the cost had been significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the sale,  its possible Mr and Mrs H mightve raised this with Co-op  or 
reconsidered their decision, rather than continuing  paying for the PPI for a number of years.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Co-op made clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs H would get if  
they made a successful  claim. But the benefit  they requested on their application  form was 
£358.99 and the actual  benefit was £360. So I think its unlikely their expectations about  
what the policy would pay were significantly different to what the policy actually did pay.
Ref: DRN27388686Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr H wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may have caused them  to conclude the policy  wasnt  
as good as they thought  and they might have  decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs H  should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr H wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions   he 
was in permanent  employment, for example. So, I think Mr and Mrs H still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
Mr H was covered for unemployment only, so the terms relating to disability (accident and 
sickness) claims, and any additional  exclusions  or requirements on such claims relating to 
back or mental health conditions, arent  relevant here. Nor are the limitations and exclusions 
on disability claims related to existing  health issues.
Co-op may not have told Mr and Mrs H any claim they made would be limited to 12 months.  
This may have differed  from what they expected and mightve hoped for  but its unlikely 
Mr Hs redundancy entitlement was worth as much as 12 months pay, given his length of 
service. In any case, the policy  would pay out on top of any work  redundancy pay. 
In those circumstances, and bearing  in mind Mr H was the sole wage earner at the time, I 
consider it likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly 
payments to help with mortgage related costs, would be of benefit and help them manage 
the consequences should Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances  the policy covered. 
By covering mortgage related costs, the policy benefit could help reduce their outgoings  at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  making  it less likely their home would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H would still have  taken the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what its likely  
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences were  Mr H made redundant. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  
than not Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken  the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  
on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN27388687That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Thats because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs H would not have taken the policy,  
Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not they would still have taken the 
policy had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Co-op should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs H think Co-op  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Co-ops statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Co-op failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Co-op gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1996  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Co-op negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Co-op had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN27388688my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2738868