K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that when HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) closed his foreign currency  
account, due to mistakes  and failures  in its systems, it caused him a financial loss. 
background
Mr S lives overseas, and held a foreign  currency account with HSBC.  In November 2017, 
HSBC decided to withdraw these sorts of accounts,  so wrote to its customers  giving notice 
and information  as to what alternatives  they might  have.  This included by which  means they 
wanted the balances in their accounts  paid out to them.
Mr S said he didnt  receive any communications from HSBC  about this until it was too late. 
And that as they were  sent by international mail, there was a long delay between  the letters  
being issued and received. Mr S says when  he realised  his account was showing a zero 
balance, on 27 February 2019 he called HSBC  to ask what  was going on. It was explained to 
him that his account had been  closed, and he said he didnt want  them to send him a 
Sterling £ cheque. He said he wanted  a bank transfer. 
But he says this request  was ignored,  and that after some further delay with international 
post, he received  a Sterling cheque, that when he cashed it meant  he lost out on a 
significant amount  of money due to the exchange rate and cheque collection fees. 
He was very unhappy  with HSBCs  actions, and wanted it to refund him what he lost.
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong, and didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr S 
brought it to this service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and sought further info from both parties. He then 
decided that HSBC hadnt made mistakes, or treated Mr S unfairly, so he wouldnt uphold 
the complaint.
Mr S still didnt  agree. He remained adamant that HSBC didnt communicate effectively with 
him, and that he wasnt given the proper notice of the closure of his account. And he 
maintained that he told HSBC not to send  him a cheque, but it did so anyway,  which caused 
his financial loss. 
He asked for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im in agreement with our Investigator  that this complaint cant be 
upheld.
I know this will come as a great disappointment  to Mr S, and I hope I can explain why I think 
this is a fair outcome  noting that my role is to be fair to both parties, given all the evidence 
available to me.
Ref: DRN24190892In order for me to agree  that HSBC made mistakes, or that it directly caused  Mr Ss financial 
loss, Id need to be convinced  that it didnt give him sufficient  notice of the account  closure,  
and that it deliberately ignored his instructions and sent him a Sterling cheque, when there  
were other options available. 
Im afraid I havent been persuaded of either of these things. 
Im satisfied that the closure notice letters were  issued  correctly, and that Mr S didnt 
respond by the deadline  given to ask that a cheque not be issued to him. By the time he 
called in February 2019, it was too late, so any request he had about  not being  issued a 
cheque couldnt  have been actioned  anyway.
Mr S is very critical of HSBCs practice of sending international mail, which can be beset with 
delays, when it could  have contacted him by phone or email  instead. While I can understand 
the logic of this argument, our service isnt a regulator, and its not for me to tell a bank how 
to conduct its business  and communicate with its customers. Thats a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
There will be a number of reasons why HSBC chose  to communicate in the manner it did, 
and with certain matters  such as account  closures, I can see that an actual paper letter may 
be seen as the most official, secure and reliable  method. In addition, the account in question 
wasnt an online account. Rather, customers would have to call or visit a branch to conduct 
their business. Further,  Mr S wasnt registered  for internet banking, and HSBC  has told us it 
didnt send emails  as they wouldnt  have  been  secure. I cant say any of this is 
unreasonable.
Mr S is upset  that when  he called  HSBC on 27 February 2018, and asked for a cheque  not 
to be sent to him that this was done anyway. Unfortunately,  hed missed  the clear  deadline  
that had been given  in the previous closure  notices to tell HSBC  about what he wanted it to 
do with his money, so this became  the legitimate  and forewarned  default option. I cant  
criticise HSBC  for this.
I can entirely understand why Mr S is upset  that he lost so much  money  in the exchange 
from Sterling to his home currency, but on all the evidence I havent  been persuaded that 
this was HSBCs fault.
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2419089