K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2001  at the same time as he 
applied for a mortgage. Its most  likely the sale took place in one of the banks branches. The 
plan included life and critical illness cover, as well as the PPI which  gave him accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.  He paid a monthly amount for the cover. This complaint 
looks only at the sale of the PPI, not the life and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as
some of it is here),  Ive based my decision on the balance of probabilities   so, on what  I
think is most likely  given  the available evidence and what  we know about how Halifax sold
PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr P says he had no understanding what he was signing for as it wasnt  adequately 
explained. I cant know what  was said in the meeting and Halifax  hasnt got the paperwork
from Mr Ps sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago  and it doesnt automatically 
mean it was mis-sold. Based on what we know about the banks sales process,  I think its 
most likely Mr P completed a TMPP application  form selecting which  elements of the cover  
he wanted, after discussion  with the bank. I say this as Halifax  has provided  samples  of the 
documents it used  when  selling TMPP at this time. And I cant find enough evidence to 
conclude that it didnt follow its standard sales process for this sale.
So, overall, I think its most likely Halifax made  it clear Mr P had a choice about PPI - and
he opted to take it out. Mr P says he didnt  understand what he was signing for - but I think  
its reasonable to expect  that he would have read and checked what he was signing before 
agreeing to go ahead. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P. And I think it seems to have been right for him
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances.  Mr Ps told us he was entitled to one
months full pay and then the statutory allowance if he was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to his work benefits  for up to 24 months for each successful accident and
sickness claim. And it also offered redundancy cover for up to 24 months. 
Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr P was sick or lost his job. It gave him
protection beyond  his other means.  And this could have been  important given the
consequences of defaulting on a debt secured  against his home.
Ref: DRN21157632Mr P says the PPI wasnt adequately explained  and I agree that its possible Halifax didnt 
give Mr P all the information he needed before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know that it 
pointed out the main  things the policy didnt cover. But Mr P doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont  know when it first made the cost clear,  
but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the policy wouldve changed  his mind about  buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr P has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115763