K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) upgraded his account to a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) without  his consent. He has also 
complained about how he was treated by Halifax since  he made his complaint.
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think  that the URCA had been 
mis-sold. But he did think that Halifax should pay Mr S a total of £200 for the trouble and 
upset that had been caused to him. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when  considering  this complaint.
Having considered everything  that Mr S and Halifax have  said and provided, I agree with the 
adjudicators findings  that the URCA wasnt mis-sold but that the award of £200  for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr S was reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain why.
Was the URCA mis-sold?
I think it might help by explaining that where  matters  are in dispute  or evidence is lacking, as 
is the case here, I am required to decide what I think was most likely  to have happened,  
based on all the evidence (which includes everything that Mr S has said) that is available. 
Mr S says that his account was upgraded to a fee-paying URCA without his consent  or 
knowledge and says that he was not in a Halifax branch on the day the account  was 
upgraded. Whereas Halifax has provided a copy of its customer notes which  includes a note 
dated 11 December  2012 that says:
taken o/d charges off as goodwill gesture. upgraded  account  to urca as will benefit  from 
this, as pays for AA at the mo etc. made aware no further refunds will be issued unless bank 
error.
Halifax has also provided a copy (albeit  a poor-quality copy)  of an URCA upgrade form that 
suggests the URCA was recommended to Mr S on the basis  that it provided breakdown  
cover and mobile phone  insurance. And Mr S has said that he was aware  that breakdown 
cover was provided with his account.
Ref: DRN25378972Based on the evidence  available, it appears  that Mr S went  into a Halifax  branch to discuss 
overdraft charges and as a result of this conversation, Halifax  sold him an URCA - 
presumably because the account benefits  included an interest  and fee-free overdraft facility 
of up to £300. And as Mr Ss overdraft  limit was £100 at the time, this meant he would  no 
longer have to pay the planned  overdraft charges (for example, Mr S was charged £23 in 
planned overdraft  charges  on 3 December 2012). Instead he would pay the monthly  URCA 
fee - which at the time was £15 per month.  In return for which  he not only got the overdraft 
benefit set out, but also several  insurance  benefits, which  Ill discuss below.
 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  than not that Mr S agreed to 
upgrade his account to an URCA and, as he already had a fee-free account, I think he did so 
knowing that he didnt  have to have a fee-paying  account if he didnt want one.
The adjudicator said that he didnt think the URCA had been recommended  to Mr S. 
However, from what I can make out on the upgrade form, it appears that the account  was 
recommended to Mr S. This meant Halifax had to make sure the account was right for Mr S.
At the time the account cost £15 and provided  worldwide travel  insurance, breakdown  cover, 
mobile phone insurance,  home emergency  cover  and card protection, alongside other 
benefits including the overdraft benefit  I mentioned above.
Mr S says he was aware of the breakdown cover and Halifax has provided evidence to show  
that he went on to claim on the breakdown cover on 25 July 2013 and 28 March 2014.  And 
Mr S has said that he occasionally travelled within the UK and Europe. I appreciate that Mr S 
might not have needed all of the benefits the account provided. But as it was provided as a 
package, he was unable to pick and choose what it came with. Nevertheless, given that he 
was able to benefit from the breakdown cover,  travel  insurance and overdraft benefit, I think 
Halifaxs recommendation to upgrade his account to an URCA was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
As well as making sure the account  was a good fit for Mr Ss circumstances, Halifax  was 
also required  to ensure that Mr S was given all of the important information about the 
account and the associated benefits.  Due to the lack of information from the time, its not 
clear exactly, what information Mr S was given. But he was clearly  given some information 
about the account  especially about the breakdown  cover  it provided. And looking at Mr Ss 
circumstances, Ive not seen anything to suggest that he wouldve been put off from 
upgrading to the URCA had he been  given more information about  the account.
So taking everything into account, I dont think that the URCA was mis-sold to Mr S. 
Should more be awarded to Mr S for the trouble and upset caused?
As well as complaining  about being mis-sold his account, Mr S has also complained about 
how he was treated by Halifax.  Looking through  Halifaxs  contact notes, between 12 
September and 15 September  2018  I can see that Mr S made a number of calls to Halifax  
and was on the phone for long periods of time as he did not agree with Halifaxs final 
response to his complaint. 
It appears that there was uncertainty about  whether  Mr Ss complaint should be dealt with by 
a fraud  team  (because Mr S said he did not consent to the upgrade)  or a packaged bank 
account mis-selling team. I can appreciate that this mustve been very frustrating for Mr S.
Ref: DRN25378973The notes suggest  that Mr S then called again  in early October 2018 and the complaint was 
then passed back  to the package bank account  team to look into. And following this Halifax 
wrote to Mr S to say that it would listen to the telephone calls Mr S had with Halifax only if he 
can provide the number  he called from. It also reminded Mr S that if he remained unhappy 
with Halifaxs response,  he could refer his complaint to our service,  and that he had six 
months in which  to do so. 
Mr S then provided the telephone number  hed called  from on 12 October  2018. Following a 
number of calls in which Mr S asked for an update,  Halifax called Mr S on 17 October  2018  
to say that it had changed  the outcome on his complaint and had found in his favour.  It said 
its offer will include a payment for distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr S. 
However, Halifax contacted Mr S on 24 October  2018 to say that it had changed its mind 
again and was not finding in his favour. Mr S was unhappy with this and Halifax informed 
Mr S that he should contact our service if he remained  unhappy with its decision. It appears 
that Mr S called Halifax back on 24 October 2018  and spoke to a complaint handler who said 
that shed contact the complaint manager  assigned to his complaint as it seemed the matter 
was already being looked into  when it was not.
Following this, Mr S called Halifax a number  of times  to discuss his complaint, but he was 
repeatedly told he should  contact our service if he remained unhappy with its decision. Mr S 
did not accept  that explanation and wanted to speak to someone at Halifax  about his 
complaint, so kept calling  back.
Following the adjudicators assessment  of the complaint,  he recommended that Halifax pay 
£200 in total for the trouble and upset  that Mr S experienced   and Halifax  agreed  with this. 
But Mr S did not accept this offer, so I have considered whether, in light of what has 
happened, this amount is reasonable.
Firstly, I note that a large amount of the delay (including time spent on hold whilst on the 
phone) that Mr S experienced  in September and October 2018 was essentially because 
Halifaxs complaints  department  couldnt  decide which  team was best placed to respond to 
Mr Ss concerns. And I also note that on 24 October  2018 Mr S was given the impression 
that his additional concerns were being  looked at again, when they werent - this only added 
to Mr Ss inconvenience and resulted in him chasing  up a response again.   
Further frustration was clearly caused  to Mr S when Halifax said it had changed the outcome 
on this complaint, to find in his favour,  when  in fact it had not. And I can understand why, 
given the mixed messages hed received, Mr S then contacted Halifax  again to get a clearer 
idea on what was happening with his complaint. And I cant  see that an explanation  was ever 
given to Mr S as to why the outcome was changed back to not being in his favour.
So given what I have  seen, I think that Halifax has caused Mr S trouble and upset that, on 
the most  part, was avoidable. But I dont think that a higher award  is warranted,  as an 
element of the trouble  and upset experienced (at least  in the latter  stages of the complaints 
process) was caused by Mr S essentially refusing to accept Halifaxs decision on his 
complaint. And I can see that Halifax told him a number of times  that if he remained 
unhappy, he should contact our service,  yet he chose to call Halifax  back  a number of times 
- which I expect wouldve  only added  to Mr Ss frustration. 
Ref: DRN25378974I have also taken into consideration that there will usually be an element of trouble and upset 
caused to consumers when having  to go through a financial businesss complaints  process  - 
that doesnt warrant a compensatory award. And so, when taking everything into account, I 
think that an award of £200 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr S is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
putting matters right
As I dont think the URCA was mis-sold,  I dont  think a refund of account fees or interest is 
warranted in this case.
However, because  of the trouble and upset caused  to Mr S, I think the £200 that Halifax has 
already agreed  to pay to him is reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  think Mr Ss account was mis-sold and Bank  of 
Scotland plc does not need  to do anything more, than what it has already agreed  to do, to 
put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2537897