K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited declined his claim and 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy from the start (voided it) after the theft of his car. He 
wants the policy reinstated and the claim paid.  
background
Four months after Mr T bought a car it was stolen from his driveway. But AA declined  his 
claim and voided  his policy because it said Mr T hadnt told it about modifications  and 
alterations made to the car. It said it would never  have offered cover  if it had known about  
the alterations. AA returned Mr Ts premiums. But Mr T said he didnt  know the car had 
modifications. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought AA had 
asked Mr T a clear question about  modifications and hes answered  no. But he thought that 
Mr T knew the car had modifications. And so hed answered the question incorrectly. He 
thought AA wouldnt have offered cover if it had known about the modifications. So he 
thought AA hadnt made a mistake  in voiding the policy  and declining the claim.
Mr T replied that the car didnt have  modifications but enhancements. He said hed insured 
the car before hed been given a certificate showing the car had been modified. He thought  
AA should have asked a clearer  question  about the modifications. He thought it was unfair 
that he had to declare the cancellation to future insurers.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this has been a costly experience for Mr T. Hes lost his car which  was worth 
£10,000. He had to pay for hire whilst he waited for AA to make its decision about  his claim. 
And he now has higher  premiums because of the cancellation he must  declare to future 
insurers. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
Like the adjudicator,  Ive listened to the call between AA and Mr T and Mrs T (a named 
driver on the policy)  when  he changed his car and took out cover for the new one. I think AA 
asked clearly if the car had any modifications and the answer given was no. 
Mr T thought the car had enhancements rather than modifications. But I think  they are both 
changes from the manufacturers product and so AAs question covers  both. Mr T thought 
the question should have  been more specific about  the modifications  made  to his car. But I 
wouldnt expect AA to then go into further  detail  about the particular modifications it didnt 
cover. I think its question was sufficiently  clear.
Ref: DRN28555492Mr T said the modifications were detailed on a certificate that he passed  to AA to validate his 
claim. He said he received this after he took out his policy.  But I think  Mr T could then have 
noted the contents of the certificate and told AA about it. It had already asked him about 
modifications. The statement of insurance  says that the car has no modifications.  Mr Ts 
previous car was the same  make,  so I think he should have reasonably  known that the car 
had been modified. And I think he should reasonably have known that this information was 
important to AA as it had specifically  asked  him about it. 
AA has provided us with an extract from its underwriting  guidelines. These say that cover 
wouldnt be provided for cars with the modifications  made to Mr Ts car. So I think that as AA 
wouldnt have offered cover in the first place it was fair and reasonable under the relevant 
legislation to void the policy and decline the claim.  
AA said that it thought  Mr Ts misrepresentation was careless rather  than reckless or 
deliberate. I think thats fair and treasonable in the circumstances. So, under  the relevant 
legislation, it refunded Mr Ts premiums. But I dont  think it needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2855549