K821x#15complaint
Miss G and Miss T are unhappy with the way HSBC Bank Plc handled their request to add 
Miss T to Miss Gs bank  account. 
background
Miss G was an existing current account  holder with HSBC. In early March 2018,  she made 
an appointment with HSBC to add Miss T to her account. Miss G says she wanted to add 
Miss T to her account because they were to receive funds from a sale of a property  which 
was in both of their names.
Miss G and Miss T provided HSBC with the necessary information in order  for it to add Miss 
T to the account.  
Miss G contacted HSBC  in late March 2018  to find out if Miss T had been  added to the 
account, but was informed  that this requested had not been processed. She was informed 
that HSBC had lost the application paper work and that they would  both have to go back to 
branch to complete a new application.
Miss G complained to HSBC about  the failed application. HSBC responded to Miss G in May 
2018. It apologised for the error  in not processing  the application sooner, and offered Miss G 
£100 for the inconvenience it had caused.  
Miss G was unhappy with this response. She said that as a result of HSBC failings, she and 
Miss T had to contact  a tax specialist in order  to make alternative arrangements  for the 
proceedings of the property sale. Miss G and Miss T brought a complaint to our service.  
Our investigator considered the complaint,  and agreed that HSBC had made an error when 
processing their application.  She felt that £250  was a more  accurate reflection of the 
inconvenience that had been caused.  Miss G and Miss T disagreed,  and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
HSBC has acknowledged  it has made  an error in the handling of Miss G and Miss Ts 
account administration. It has apologised for this error and offered Miss G and Miss T £250 
to recognise the impact  this had on them.
However, Miss G and Miss T disagree  that this sufficiently recognises the impact  this error 
has had. In particular  they point to the time they had to invest in fixing  the problem, and 
finding a solution to not having  the account  open.  
Ive carefully considered  these arguments, and whilst I dont doubt there was inconvenience 
caused, Im satisfied the amount offered is sufficient.  The amount is in line with an award I 
would expect considering the time line involved  and the fact that HSBC has confirmed 
what Miss G and Miss T would need to do in order  to fix the solution. I appreciate this places 
further inconvenience on them both, but that is why our investigator recommended the 
amount be increased  from the original £100  offered. This feels  fair and reasonable  to me.
Ref: DRN23784162Miss G and Miss T have  also spoken of the distress caused by the potential of the loss of the 
sale of their property. Ive no doubt this was a distressing  time,  but ultimately the sale of the 
property did go through,  and HSBCs  actions didnt  impact  this. So I dont think  I can 
reasonably say this situation should warrant further compensation. Instead, I need  to 
consider the distress and inconvenience  caused  as a whole, and Im satisfied the £250 
awarded recognises this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require HSBC Bank Plc to pay Miss G and Miss T a total of £250 to recognise  the distress  
and inconvenience  it has caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2019.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378416