K820x#14complaint
E  Limited, represented  by Mrs J a director, complains about  the way HSBC UK Bank Plc 
handled a payment to an overseas supplier.
 
background
Mrs J went into an HSBC branch on 26 July 2018  to make a $200,000 payment  from 
E Limiteds  business  account to one of its overseas suppliers. HSBC  said it couldnt make  
the payment as there was a problem with the IBAN number. Mrs J then arranged  for the 
payment to be made in two instalments online on 26 and 27 July 2018.  They  reached the 
supplier on 31 July and 2 August 2018. But as the terms  of the contract  between  E Limited 
and the supplier said that the payment must arrive  by 30 July the price for the product had 
increased. Mrs J wants HSBC to reimburse E Limited for this extra amount as she says if it 
wasnt for the problems  with HSBC the payment wouldve arrived  in time. She also says she 
was in branch  for a couple  of hours trying to resolve matters and it was very stressful. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
HSBC has now explained the payment in branch didnt work  as the member of staff 
shouldve deselected a tick box asking for the IBAN given this was a payment to a 
country outside the EU. So, HSBC got things wrong.
To say that HSBC  should be responsible for the increased price  of the products shed 
have to see that a payment made on 26 July 2018 would  definitely have reached  the 
supplier by 30 July and that the price of the product wouldve remained at the 
contract price and not increased. 
The terms and conditions of the account say payments usually take up to four 
working days but may take longer depending on the country.  A payment made in 
branch isnt guaranteed to have reached  the supplier by 30 July 2018. The 
contractual price  for the product also wasnt guaranteed if payment arrived  on 30 July 
2018. So, she cant say HSBC should be responsible for the increased cost.
Mrs J tried to ensure there wasnt a problem with the payment being made and then 
to resolve things. This was stressful and time consuming for her. Disappointingly 
HSBC also didnt  discover the error  until some time after its final response letter.  So, 
its fair for it to give compensation for the inconvenience and stress  caused. Its offer 
of £200 compensation is reasonable.
Mrs J remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary she says 
there was a problem  at HSBC which stopped the company making a legitimate transaction.  
The issue  was identified  the previous year when the company tried to make  a large 
payment. HSBC was indifferent  to the problem. In the end two payments were made on 
consecutive days to avoid  going  over the daily account limit. Both arrived after the 30 July 
2018. The business has lost $5,000 on the second payment and shes  spent  a day dealing  
with the bank and the complaint. Based  on its turnover that represents another £4,000  of lost 
opportunity costs. A £200  fine isnt an incentive to a bank to make any serious changes.  
Ref: DRN25563062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC clearly made an error in branch on 26 July 2018 which meant  the payment wasnt 
made while Mrs J was in the branch. But she still managed to make  a smaller part payment 
online on that day and a second  payment of the balance the next day. Unfortunately both of 
these payments arrived after the 30 July 2018.
As the investigator  has said the terms and conditions of the account  dont  guarantee when 
payments will arrive,  whether theyre made online  or in branch. They say payments usually 
take up to four working days but may take longer depending on the country.
Here the payment sent online on 26 July arrived after the 30 July. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest a payment made in branch on the same day wouldve arrived any earlier or that 
HSBC wouldve guaranteed a branch made  payment wouldve arrived  on or before 30 July.
I also note Mrs J says the company experienced a problem sending  a payment from a 
branch the previous year. That shouldve perhaps  served as a warning that making  
payments could be problematic and it mightve therefore been  prudent for the payment in 
2018 to have been sent a little earlier than the 26 July if its arrival by a particular date was so 
important.
Ive also seen nothing  saying the contractual product  price  was guaranteed by the supplier.  
A letter from the supplier  states what the original  agreed price  is but not that this price  is 
guaranteed.
Overall, although I sympathise with the situation  the company  and Mrs J found themselves in 
I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require HSBC  to reimburse  the company for the extra 
cost it had to pay for the product.
I also acknowledge that Mrs J has experienced stress  in dealing with HSBC. But even  
though shes a director of the company she isnt HSBCs customer. The business, E Limited, 
is. So, I can neither award compensation to Mrs J for any stress  shes  suffered personally 
even when acting  as a director, nor to the limited  company for distress as being a corporate  
entity it cannot experience stress  or distress.
Mrs J would like us to compensate E limited it for lost opportunity costs. But that isnt an 
actual quantifiable loss. So, I dont think I can fairly ask HSBC  to reimburse the company for 
this.
Even so the business has clearly been inconvenienced by HSBCs error.  And HSBC  has 
offered to pay £200 compensation for this.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think this is fair and 
I dont think I can reasonably require HSBC to pay any more  for the inconvenience  caused to 
E Limited.
Mrs J also says a fine  of £200 isnt enough to prompt change at HSBC. But this service 
isnt a regulator. We cant fine or punish  a business or require it to change it practices and 
Ref: DRN25563063procedures. General issues about  how the banking industry works are a matter for the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
Overall, although I recognise  Mrs Js frustration and strength of feeling, I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case. I simply leave it to her to 
decide on behalf E Limited, if she hasnt already done so, if she wishes  to accept HSBCs 
offer of £200 compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J, on behalf of 
E Limited,  to accept  or reject my decision before 1 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2556306