K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about what Lloyds Bank PLC did when he wanted  to close  his business 
account.
background
Mr L told us that he had a business account with Lloyds that he wanted  to close  at the end of 
2017. He spoke to Lloyds  in early November about  this. But Lloyds  said that because he still 
had a business loan he was paying  off, that meant  he had to keep the account open, so the 
loan could be paid from it. Lloyds said it would turn that current account  into a loan servicing 
account. Mr L told us that he didnt want that, but he wasnt given any choice. 
Mr L also said that he had a mortgage being paid from that account too. He said Lloyds  told 
him to make  a manual  payment for the next mortgage payment that was due, so he did that. 
But then Lloyds tried to take a payment from his old business account  too. And it charged 
him over £100 for that. 
Mr L said that after this, he asked Lloyds not to take the loan payments from his account  any 
more, but it was still trying to, and charging  him when it failed. He said hes been writing to 
Lloyds about this each time it tells him hes been charged,  but he hasnt had a single reply. 
He said it was still charging him. 
Mr L says Lloyds said he has no option  but to pay money into the loan servicing account to 
pay his loan. But he said he didnt want to do that, because the money would just be eaten  
up by charges that Lloyds was improperly  levying on the account. He said hed found out 
that he could just make manual payments onto the loan through  a branch, and that was what 
he was doing.  
Mr L wanted Lloyds  to answer his letters, and to refund  the charges it was improperly  levying 
on his loan servicing account. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr L early in 2018  to say it didnt  think  it had made  a mistake in charging  
him, and it had explained to him why his account  had been converted into a loan servicing  
account to allow him to repay his loan.  He wasnt being charged just for having that servicing  
account. 
Lloyds said that it did think though  that Mr L had received poor service,  and it had failed to 
update his address properly. So Lloyds paid him £25 in compensation, and waived some 
charges. It had now sorted out a separate  problem with his address, and it said that if he 
paid his loan payment  into this servicing account the day before it was due to be taken  out, 
that should resolve things going forward.  
Lloyds said it had listened to the relevant  calls, and it felt it had explained to Mr L that he had 
to pay off his business  loan from this particular account. So he needed to put his loan 
payments into the account, in good time for them to meet the loan repayment schedule. He 
hadnt done that, and hed been  charged  as a result. Lloyds didnt think  that was a mistake. 
When Lloyds wrote to us about  this complaint, it said that Mr Ls loan is also substantively in 
arrears, due to either missed payments or to cash  payments being made directly onto the 
loan by Mr L. The loan wouldnt recognise any payments which  were made directly to it, 
rather than from the loan account.  
Ref: DRN28177002Mr L has repeatedly raised with Lloyds the issue of £105 of charges relating  to a mortgage 
payment. Mr L has told Lloyds that it hasnt addressed this at all, and it needs to do that. 
Mr L also said that he hadnt been told that any charges could apply  to the converted  
account. He said that Lloyds  cant enforce those  charges unless hes agreed to them, and he 
hadnt. He said that he was withdrawing any authority for Lloyds to debit his loan servicing 
account, or any other account he held with it, for any loan repayments.  He said that if Lloyds 
did this now, it would  be in breach  of the law. 
Mr L said he was making  manual payments  to pay off the loan, which he said he had 
discovered how to do with no help from Lloyds. So he said that Lloyds could now close  this 
loan servicing account. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that that it wasnt unreasonable for 
Lloyds to require  Mr L to maintain an account  for his loan payments to be taken from. Our 
adjudicator said that the charges on Mr Ls account  had been  applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of his account,  so they didnt have  to be refunded. 
Our adjudicator said that he thought that Lloydss service had fallen short  of expectations 
because it didnt respond to many  of Mr Ls letters. It had tried to call him in response  to 
some of his letters. But Lloyds had notified Mr L of what he needed  to do to keep  up to date 
with payments, and it had apologised for the fact that it hadnt always responded.
Our adjudicator said that Mr Ls complaint about  his mortgage wasnt  part of his initial  
complaint to Lloyds,  so we couldnt  consider it as part of this complaint. He asked  Mr L to 
raise this with Lloyds. 
Mr L said that he didnt  want to start using the loan servicing account again, because  
payments to that account would just be used to repay the disputed charges on the account. 
He said that if Lloyds opened  a new loan servicing account, he would  happily  credit that. 
Mr L also said that he knew when  calls were  made  to him, and Lloyds hadnt rung, as it had 
suggested. He also said that he hadnt  received  any apology for not responding to his letters. 
He said that the two letters that our adjudicator said were final response  letters, from 
January and March,  werent final response letters, because they didnt contain  that phrase. 
And he said that he had complained about  the improper debiting  of the mortgage sum. 
Lloyds just hadnt replied to that. 
Our adjudicator replied  that the charges that have been applied  to Mr Ls account were 
applied in line with the terms and conditions  of his account. He wouldnt expect Lloyds to 
open a new loan servicing account when there was one already open. Mr L would have to 
raise a subject access request with Lloyds to see the evidence that Lloyds had sent us, 
because it refused permission for us to share it. 
Our adjudicator said that Lloyds had asked  him to pass on its sincere apologies for not 
having responded to all of Mr Ls letters during  the course of the complaint. And the letters  
that Lloyds sent on 16 January and 8 March met our service's definition  of final response  
letters even  though they didnt contain that phrase
Mr L repeated that he had raised  the mortgage  point from the start. He didnt  think  this was a 
separate complaint. And he said that he was making  payments over the counter to his loan,  
Ref: DRN28177003so a loan servicing  account isnt a requirement.  He said hed now found out when Lloyds 
tried to call, and it was after the letters that said it had tried to call him. 
Mr L wanted his complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mr L rang in November 2017 to ask Lloyds to close  his business current  account. The 
terms for Mr Ls current account allow him to close the account  on a months notice. 
-Mr L was told then he couldnt close the account. He does seem  to have agreed on the 
call to keeping the account open, although in a different form. He agreed to that because  
he was told he couldnt close it. Mr Ls account was then converted  into a loan servicing 
account, a form of dormant business account  which Mr L no longer  pays  to have.
-It is clear that Lloyds has a policy requirement  for its customers  to maintain a servicing 
account to pay off a business loan. And its clear why it has that, its to do with how any 
payment taken other than from a business current account  shows  on the loan. Its been 
rather more difficult to get to the bottom  of where  Lloyds had agreed with Mr L that this 
was how he would  operate the loan. Thats caused some  delay  in resolving this case. 
-At first, Lloyds  sent us its internal procedures, and said they were authority for requiring 
Mr L to keep the account open.  They clearly werent, Mr L hasnt agreed to that policy. 
But Lloyds has, more recently,  responded to my repeated request for sight  of the terms 
of Mr Ls loan. It has sent our service  one page  from the loan agreement, which  states 
that Unless otherwise  agreed  by the Bank you shall at all times during the term of this 
agreement keep  a servicing account  with the Bank and all amounts  from time to time due 
to the Bank under  this agreement may be debited to that account.
-I only have one page of the agreement,  so I cant be certain  that this is the wording on 
the document that Mr L signed. But I think (subject to any evidence on this that Mr L 
would like to offer)  its more likely  than not that Mr L did agree when he took out this loan 
with Lloyds to keep a servicing  account open, and to pay off his account with it. The rest 
of my decision is based partly on this finding. I think thats an important point  in this case.
-Mr L says that someone  in the bank has told him that theres a different way to pay his 
loan. That person may not be aware  that Mr L has agreed to pay his loan from a 
servicing account. 
-I think, on the call where Mr L was told he had to keep this account open, Mr L did agree 
to pay money into the loan servicing  account  each month.  But Lloyds also says on this 
call that on this sort of account  you dont pay any bank charges. Mr L ended that call, 
before things like the arrangement for the loan servicing account could be explained  to 
him. Thats unfortunate, because  it meant  that Lloyds didnt get the chance to qualify its 
earlier statement, and explain that it meant  Mr L wouldnt pay just to hold the account, 
but he would  pay a charge for things  like failed  direct  debits.  I dont think its Lloydss 
fault it didnt get a chance to explain the arrangements for the servicing  account  fully.
Ref: DRN28177004-Charges have been applied to this account.  Mr L complained  he was charged £105  for a 
failed direct debit for a personal mortgage. Thats  been part of this complaint for some 
time, and Lloyds doesnt seem to have addressed that issue  in its responses to him.
-In fact, I think this point could have  been  resolved quite  easily.  Mr Ls statements dont 
seem to me to support  what  he says about that charge. His statements seem to show 
that he was charged £105 (£35 each) for three  direct debits to HMRC which  failed. I 
understand that these charges for a failed direct debit are the same  charges that Mr L 
paid when this account was an active business current  account. And Ive explained why 
Mr L had to keep  this account open. I dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong when it 
charged him that. 
-Mr L was then charged £35 for a failed mortgage direct debit. Mr L told us that hed been 
advised to make  a manual payment for his mortgage for that month, so the direct debit 
shouldnt have  been taken. His mortgage  statement indicates that his payment was due 
at the start of December, and that no manual payment had been made at this time.  So I 
dont think that Lloyds did anything wrong  when it tried to take the payment for his 
mortgage from this account at the start of December, and when it charged him because 
that payment  failed.   
-I do think though  that the issues with these payments were part of a complaint by Mr L, 
which Lloyds didnt  respond to. He mentioned this in his letter of 22 January. I think  the 
complaint response which Lloyds  sent to Mr L in early  March shouldve dealt with this 
point. And I think Mr L was then reluctant to use his servicing account,  because Lloyds 
hadnt explained to Mr L that these charges werent incurred in the way he suggested.  Ill 
bear that in mind  when I think about the appropriate  resolution  in this case.
-Mr L has then had a number of charges applied to his account, for failed  loan payments. 
These continue to be applied, although Mr L does seem to be making some manual 
payments to his loan.  Mr L objects strongly  to these charges. 
-I think that Lloyds  should  have explained to Mr L why it was saying that he had to make 
payments from a servicing account.  It shouldve shown him the term of his loan, which 
says he must maintain  a servicing account,  and must use that to pay off his loan. I cant 
see that it has ever done that. 
-Lloyds seems to me to have an agreement with Mr L that Mr L will pay from this account. 
But it hasnt just explained to Mr L why it thinks it can insist  on that. And as a result, Mr L 
hasnt complied with what it seems to me he has considered isnt a legal requirement. 
-A considerable amount  of charges have now built up on Mr Ls servicing  account.  And 
positions have  become  entrenched on either  side, with Lloyds repeatedly writing to Mr L 
to tell him his loan is in arrears, and Mr L saying  that he wants  to charge Lloyds for each 
time he has to write to it. I think that this entrenching of positions, and the amount of 
charges that have  accrued, couldve been avoided  if Lloyds had explained the position 
clearly rather earlier.
-I think that Mr L initially agreed to make  payments from this loan account. So there was 
no need to explain  on the November call that he was legally obliged to do so. But I do 
think that Lloyds  should have explained this position once it became clear that Mr L was 
determined not to make payments from the servicing account.  I think it shouldve  done 
this, at the very latest, in its letter  of 8 March 2018.  That letter makes reference to the 
Ref: DRN28177005banks policy  that Mr L should pay off his loan from a servicing account, but makes no 
reference to the nature  of the agreement between Lloyds and Mr L that requires this. I 
think that it was sufficiently clear by this stage that Mr L didnt regard this as something 
that he was bound to do. 
-I think if Lloyds had explained this at that point, its more  likely than not that Mr L would 
then have complied  with the terms of the agreement hed entered  into. For that reason, I 
think Lloyds should refund all the charges it has made for missed loan payments which 
were attempted after 8 March  2018.  And it should  also refund any interest it has charged 
on these amounts, from this date onwards.  
-I dont think that Lloyds has to make  a refund of charges before this. Some  of those 
charges are unrelated to the loan. There are failed  payments to HMRC or for a 
mortgage, which incurred  charges, that Ive dealt with above. Other charges before 
8 March were, in my view,  incurred because Mr L didnt pay the loan off from his 
servicing account, although he had agreed  to do that. 
-Lloyds has suggested that the arrears showing on Mr Ls account are partly a result of 
him having made payments  directly onto the loan, which arent  recognised because they 
were made in cash. If that is the case,  then I would also expect Lloyds to rework Mr Ls 
loan so that it no longer shows any arrears which are solely  the result of payments being 
made in cash,  rather than from his servicing  account. I expect  Lloyds to send Mr L a 
clear breakdown of payments made, explaining any remaining  arrears.  
-Going forward, Mr L is now aware  of the nature  of the agreement he entered  into, so I 
expect that he would wish to observe that agreement in future. I wont require  Lloyds to 
refrain from adding any charges to the servicing  account in future, after its complied with 
my final decision on this case.
-I think its clear  that Lloyds has provided a poor service to Mr L in this case.  It hasnt 
given him the simple  and straightforward  explanation  of why it feels it can insist  on 
payments being made from his loan account.  It doesnt ever seem to have responded to 
his complaint about charges for a missed  mortgage payment. But I dont  think  that Lloyds 
has to pay any additional compensation  for that. Thats because  I think that a refund of 
charges from 8 March  2018, and any interest accrued on those charges, provides the 
right amount of compensation  in this case.
-There are other outstanding issues to resolve  in this case, including  the charges that 
Mr L said he would make  for writing to Lloyds, and his revocation  of authority for Lloyds 
to debit his servicing account. Ill look at those now. 
-Firstly, I dont think that Lloyds has to pay Mr L for each letter he has written it. A bank 
applies charges  to a customers  account  as part of its agreement with that customer. But 
theres no agreement  between Mr L and Lloyds allowing Mr L to charge for letters he has 
written. I dont think hed able to unilaterally  enforce  such  a requirement,  and I dont think 
it would  be fair and reasonable for me to do so. 
-Similarly, I dont  think that Mr L is able to unilaterally alter the loan agreement that he 
entered into with Lloyds. So, although  he has said that he is revoking the authority for 
Lloyds to take money out of his servicing account, I dont think  that changes  the loan 
agreement he entered into. And I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable, given the 
Ref: DRN28177006problems that are apparently caused to Mr Ls loan by payments  coming  from elsewhere, 
for me to require  Lloyds to accept payments from elsewhere. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides sent detailed  responses to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr L said that the first time Lloyds had ever told him that the charges applied  to his account  
in December 2017 were in respect of unpaid  HMRC debts was in October 2018. He felt he 
shouldve been  told that earlier. I said in my provisional decision that I thought it couldve 
helped bring this complaint to an earlier resolution if Mr L had been told this sooner. But I 
dont think it was solely Lloydss responsibility  to tell Mr L he had made  a mistake about what  
hes been charged for on his account.  I think that Mr Ls statement was clear on this point.
 
Mr L also said that it was clear that he had phoned  the mortgage department of Lloyds 
before the date for the December payment, knowing that the mortgage wouldnt be paid from 
the defunct business account, and was told to make a manual payment  to the mortgage 
account before the end of December, which he did. He wanted our service to request  a 
recording of this call from Lloyds. He said that hed done what Lloyds asked him to do, but it 
still presented the mortgage for payment, and then charged him for it bouncing. He said that 
hed like me to reconsider  whether those charges should be repaid  to him. 
Our service has asked Lloyds whether it has a record of this conversation.  It hasnt  shown us 
anything to support  what Mr L says about when he contacted it. And, as I noted in my 
provisional decision, Mr Ls mortgage payment for December was due at the start of the 
month, so it would be a little surprising if, as he says, hed been  told that he didnt need to 
pay until the end of the month. I also note that Mr L had agreed  in early November to keep 
this account open, so that he could keep making loan payments from it, so it seems  as if he 
couldve made a mortgage  payment from this account too. 
Ive considered all the evidence  available  to me, including  what  Mr L himself  has said, but I 
dont think Im able to reach a conclusion, on the evidence  I have  seen, that its more likely  
than not that Mr L had agreed with Lloyds  that it wouldnt take this direct debit from his 
business account at the start of December. And that means I dont think it would  be 
reasonable for me to ask Lloyds to pay back to Mr L the money he was charged when this 
direct debit didnt clear.
Mr L also said that Lloydss behaviour  towards him had been very poor.  He said that Lloyds 
shouldnt be sending him sensitive material with no covering letter  explaining what  it was, in 
an old envelope from a different bank, with no marking to say it was confidential  or contained  
personal information. He said that hed asked for the name of the person who did this to 
lodge a complaint, but hadnt  received  a reply. Mr L said hed also received  letters  with no 
postage, and hed kept those envelopes.
Our services starting point is that Lloyds  would usually  be responsible overall  for the actions 
of its staff. I dont think that Mr L would  need to be given the name of an individual, in order  
to complain about actions taken  by a Lloyds staff member.  I do realise that Mr L has been 
Ref: DRN28177007very unhappy with how Lloyds  has communicated  with him. And Ive taken the service that 
Lloyds has provided  into account in my decision. 
Mr L said hed continued to make the loan repayments, in a way that a branch member had 
told him was entirely appropriate. And he said that his business  loan wasnt  in arrears.  He 
said that the bank had accepted he was repaying  the loan, but not in the way it would like. 
Lloyds has said that Mr L has made  some  payments  to the loan. But it has also said his loan 
is in arrears. I havent got an up to date breakdown of payments, so I dont know  the latest 
position. Im also aware that the position of Mr Ls loan is complicated  by the fact that 
Lloydss system expects him to pay from a loan servicing account, and hes made  some  
payments in cash. But, even after we set aside any argument about how payments were  
made, it did look to me as if there  have  been  arrears on the loan at some  points during the 
time period covered  by this complaint. 
Ive asked Lloyds  to write to Mr L about  the current position of his loan,  as part of my 
decision in this case. Ive asked it to set out the payments which have  been  credited to his 
loan and to explain  whether he is in arrears or not. Lloyds will make sure that this written 
explanation of Mr Ls loan does not include any arrears which  may have build  up solely  
because of the method of payment he has been  using, up until the date of my decision.
Mr L also said he didnt need  to make payments through the loan servicing  account.  He 
could pay in cash instead. If a member  of Lloydss branch staff has told Mr L that it was 
acceptable to pay his loan by making payments over the counter, then I think  that staff 
member made a mistake. Lloyds has shown our service the terms that I understand Mr L 
agreed to when he took out the loan. Those  do require payments from Mr L to be deposited 
into his former business account, now a loan servicing account. My decision doesnt require 
Lloyds to continue  to accept cash payments towards this loan from Mr L.
Mr L said that he still wasnt  receiving  responses  to his letters from Lloyds. He said that this 
wasnt a fresh complaint, it was an ongoing theme  with Lloyds, and it was very frustrating.  
Ive taken into account in my provisional  decision that Lloyds failed to respond  to a number 
of letters  from Mr L, before he contacted us. I think that once Mr L has brought  his complaint 
to us, then Lloyds is in a difficult position. Our service  would  usually expect any further  
correspondence about a complaint, at that point, to go through  us. The situation becomes  
very complicated if a business writes directly to a complainant about their complaint,  at the 
same time as we are considering it. So, whilst  Lloyds should acknowledge Mr Ls 
correspondence, I dont  think  its necessarily a mistake if Lloyds chooses not to provide  Mr L 
with a substantive response  on the same  issues, once  our service is considering a matter.
Mr L said that he would make any payments to Lloyds that were as a sole and direct result  of 
the failed HMRC payments, but he wouldnt make  any payments in respect of the allegedly  
unpaid business  loan, and he would litigate this if necessary.
Mr L is free to decide, once my decision is finalised, whether he wishes  to accept it, or 
whether he would prefer to take legal action instead. 
Lloyds also replied to my provisional  decision. 
Lloyds said it had listened again to the call Mr L made to it in early November, and it said 
that it had explained then that a servicing account  would be required because Mr L still had a 
Ref: DRN28177008loan with Lloyds.  So Lloyds didnt think it had failed to inform  Mr L of the way forward.  And 
Lloyds said the loan agreement wouldve been sent to Mr L when he took out the loan. 
Lloyds said it didnt  understand  why I had asked it to refund charges from 8 March  2018. 
I said in my provisional decision that Mr L had agreed, on the November call, to make 
payments from the servicing account, formerly his business account. So I didnt think that 
Lloyds needed  to tell Mr L then that he was obliged to do this. But it became clear  later that 
Mr L didnt want to keep  this account  open.  So I think that, by 8 March 2018,  Lloyds 
shouldve explained  to Mr L why he was obliged to make payments from this loan servicing 
account. And I still think that, having  failed to do so, Lloyds should  refund any fees it has 
applied to Mr Ls loan servicing account  for failed  loan payments attempted  after 
8 March 2018, and any interest charged  on those  fees.
I dont think its reasonable for Lloyds to expect  Mr L would recall that a loan agreement hed 
signed six years earlier  said he must  make  payments from a loan servicing account, if he 
wished to close his business account.  I note that it did take some time, and some prompting,  
for Lloyds  itself to be able to locate the obligation on Mr L to pay from this account. 
Lloyds also said that there  were  arrears to the loan while Mr L had the business account.  So 
Lloyds said Mr L had known for some  time that there  would be arrears recorded to the loan. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence of this. But I dont think the historical position of Mr Ls loan, 
before November 2017, is relevant  to this complaint.
Lloyds said that it wouldnt reconstitute the loan statements  to remove  arrears,  as this would 
not be a true reflection  of how the account has been managed.  It said that it would have 
difficulty producing  a statement of Mr Ls account that wasnt affected  by the way the 
payments had been made. But it would be able to let Mr L know what  arrears, if any, remain 
on the loan by letter. And once the account  was up to date and Mr L was paying via the loan 
servicing account, no further arrears letters would be generated.
Lloyds also said that if I also wanted  it to remove any adverse marks that may have been 
placed on Mr Ls credit report as a result  of payments made by alternative means, not 
through the servicing account, then it would need to see a copy of his personal credit report. 
It also said that it didnt  think it should  have to amend his credit file. It said that it would not 
be a true reflection of the repayments to the loan if it were to remove  this.
I replied to Lloyds on this point, to say that I wasnt minded to ask Mr L to send Lloyds his 
personal credit report. I noted that a full credit file contains a considerable amount of 
personal information, which Mr L might not wish to share with Lloyds. And I didnt think  that 
this would be necessary  for Lloyds to remove any adverse  marks that might have been  
placed on Mr Ls credit file, as a result of payments made to his loan after 8 March  2018 
other than through the loan servicing  account.  
I dont know if Lloyds  has actually placed any such adverse markers on Mr Ls credit file as a 
result of him making payments after 8 March 2018 in cash rather  than through his loan 
account. But if it has done so before the date of my final decision,  then I confirmed that it 
should remove those  markers. 
I note Lloydss view that it wouldnt be a true record of Mr Ls payments to make  these 
changes to his credit file. But I disagree.  I think that its important to make sure that, during  
the period that Lloyds hadnt  explained  to Mr L why he needed to make payments from his 
loan account,  that he shouldnt be penalised if he had made  his payments to the loan, but by 
Ref: DRN28177009a different method. I dont think it would be a true record  of Mr Ls payments to record 
problems with his payments  during  this time,  if the only reason for those problems was 
because of the way the payments were made. 
I did say though it appeared to me that, if Lloyds is recording this loan on Mr Ls credit  file, 
then even after these  changes were made, his file may still show  a number of late payments. 
I said that I wouldnt expect that any adverse markers which  may have been  placed on 
Mr Ls file for any periods  when he made  no payments at all should  be removed. It looked, 
for example, as if Mr L may not have made any payments to this loan between  
December 2017  and March 2018.  I didnt think that any adverse markers  noted on Mr Ls 
credit file because he made  no payments between those times would need  to be removed.
I also noted in my decision that I expected  that Mr L, once he was aware of the nature of the 
loan agreement hed entered  into, would wish to observe that agreement in future. So I said I 
wouldnt require Lloyds  to refrain  from adding any charges to the servicing account in future. 
And similarly, my decision doesnt  include any requirements about  what information Lloyds 
should or should not show on Mr Ls credit file in the future. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I havent changed my mind.  So Ill now proceed to make  
the decision I initially proposed, with one amendment  for clarity. As there seems to have 
been some  confusion about  what Lloyds  should do to Mr Ls credit file as part of updating his 
loan account,  Ill make sure that is stated clearly in my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must repay any fees it has applied to Mr Ls loan 
servicing account for failed loan payments attempted  after 8 March  2018, and any interest 
charged on the amount of those fees.  Lloyds Bank PLC must  also rework Mr Ls loan so that 
no arrears appear on his credit file solely as a result of payments to the loan being made in 
cash, and it must send  Mr L a clear breakdown of his payments to date, showing any 
remaining arrears. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2817700