K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  two 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies in 2000.
background
In March 2000, Mr and Mrs W took out a joint personal loan and were also sold a single 
premium PPI policy to protect  their repayments. Mrs W was the sole policy  holder at this 
time. Mr and Mrs W took out the insurance  during a phone call with a representative from 
Nationwide. Mr and Mrs W took out a top up loan in July 2000 and did so through  a phone 
call again. They were  again sold single premium PPI. This time Mr W was the sole policy  
holder.
Mr and Mrs W believe that Nationwide mis-sold them both PPI policies in 2000. They say 
they were offered PPI as a caveat to having  the loans on each occasion.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. I will explain why.
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional  and they chose to 
have it on both occasions. I say this because  I can see that they signed sales 
documentation. These documents made it clear that PPI was optional and had separate 
costs displayed for it on both occasions.  So I cant fairly say that Nationwide didnt explain 
that PPI was an optional feature. I have regard  for what Mr and Mrs W have said,  but the 
sales happened many  years ago and recollections  can fade over time. I am persuaded 
based on what I have  seen that Mr and Mrs W were given a choice to have the two PPI 
policies.
At the time of both sales, Mr and Mrs W were both employed, residents in the UK and in 
good health and were  therefore eligible for the cover that the policies provided (Mr W was 
the policy holder  in March 2000  and Mrs W the policy holder in July 2000). They  would not 
have been caught by any of the significant  limitations and exclusions of the cover  such as 
those relating to health or unusual employment  terms.  
Mr and Mrs W say that they had the benefits  they could have relied upon for each sale.      
Mr W in particular had very good sick pay arrangements with his employer. But, as a non-
advised sale, Nationwide only to provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
two PPI policies;  it was not required  to take into account any existing cover arrangements or 
to comment on the policies suitability  for Mr W in March 2000 and Mrs W in July 2000. The 
Ref: DRN23275712policies were optional,  and the sales were  on a non-advised basis; it was therefore Mr and 
Mrs Ws choice  whether  to purchase the policies and add to their existing arrangements.
Information was provided  in both loan agreements about costs. Both loan agreements set 
out the separate cost of the loan and the PPI, what  interest  was applicable to each element 
and the monthly  repayment that applied respectively. I am therefore satisfied the cost of 
each policy  was made clear.
Both policies  provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon  cancellation.  So 
Mr and Mrs W were not disadvantaged if they wanted  to repay a loan early or cancel a PPI 
policy. In addition, the term of each policy (and the protection  it offered) matched the term of 
the corresponding loan, so the policies were flexible to meet their changing needs and 
circumstances.
I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs W may feel that their information needs  may not have  
been properly  met, but I am not persuaded that they were  disadvantaged  to the extent  that 
they would  most likely have acted differently  and declined either policy  had they been more  
fully informed about it.
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs W have not been mis-sold PPI by Nationwide on both 
occasions in 2000.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2327571