K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP treated him unfairly when he asked to delay 
one of his loan repayments.
Mr T wants Uncle Buck to pay him compensation. 
background
Mr T had taken  out a short term loan with Uncle Buck. In December  2017,  Mr T contacted 
Uncle Buck  to ask whether he could delay  his repayment that month  due to unexpected car 
repairs. 
Mr T wasnt happy with the way that Uncle Buck treated him during the call. Mr T says he felt 
as though the representative didnt believe he was being truthful  and kept asking him for 
documentation which  Mr T explained he couldnt provide. Although Uncle  Buck later agreed 
to put Mr Ts account on hold, the collection activity continued.
Before this service became involved, Uncle Buck agreed that the agent who spoke to Mr T 
couldve handled the call better. Uncle Buck also said that it couldve  agreed to suspend  
collection activity during the call after Mr T explained that he couldnt  supply the 
documentation within  a week.
Uncle Buck  said that it would keep Mr Ts account on hold until early February 2018 so that 
he could repay the outstanding balance. Uncle Buck didnt offer to pay any compensation.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ts complaint be upheld. She didnt think that Uncle  
Buck really  needed  to keep asking for evidence from Mr T after he explained his problem 
and said that he would  make up the missing payment in the following month.
The adjudicator didnt think that Uncle Buck responded  to Mr Ts difficulties in a positive or 
sympathetic way. She thought that it wouldve been reasonable to expect Uncle Buck  to 
immediately freeze interest  until the next payment date. Instead, the agent from Uncle Buck 
continued to question Mr T about his outgoings.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr T was further inconvenienced when he had to call Uncle  
Buck again  and ask that a manager  listen to the call recording.
The adjudicator recommended that Uncle Buck pay Mr T £150 compensation.
Uncle Buck  said that it wasnt willing to pay £150  but agreed to pay £100  compensation. 
However, Uncle Buck wanted to apply the compensation payment against Mr Ts 
outstanding balance. 
Mr T was initially willing  to accept  the offer of £100 but he wanted  Uncle  Buck to pay this to 
him direct rather than applying it to the outstanding balance. 
The adjudicator made  Uncle Buck aware  of Mr Ts wishes but it didnt reply by the deadline 
the adjudicator  gave  so the complaint has come to me. Mr T has since  said that hes no 
longer willing  to accept Uncle Bucks  offer of £100 as this was less than the adjudicator 
recommended.
Ref: DRN26571862my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions of the adjudicator. 
Ive listened to the recording of the call that Mr T had with Uncle Buck in early December. I 
can appreciate why Mr T found the agents line of questioning rather intrusive.  I can also 
understand why Mr T felt Uncle  Buck didnt necessarily believe his explanation  of why he 
couldnt afford the repayment that he was due to make.
Mr T explained to Uncle Buck and to this service  that he found the whole experience  
embarrassing. Mr T points out that he was trying  to do the right thing when he made contact 
rather than just ignore  the fact he couldnt  make his payment.
Mr T had to contact Uncle Buck again after he received a text reminding him of the arrears 
despite having already  reached an agreement to put his account  on hold until 22 December 
2017. 
Mr T explained to Uncle Buck that the nature of his work and the distance that he had to 
travel to work each  day meant that it was very difficult for him to make  phone calls during 
office hours. I accept  that Mr T was concerned to be chased  for payment after hed agreed 
that his loan account would be on hold for a time.
Since I was asked to make my final decision, Uncle  Buck  has confirmed that its willing to 
pay £100 direct to Mr T. As the question  of paying compensation directly to Mr T rather than 
using it to reduce  his outstanding balance appears  to have been settled, I dont think I need  
to say any more about  this aspect of Mr Ts complaint. 
Overall, I agree  with the adjudicator that £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. It better 
reflects the upset  and embarrassment  that Mr T has felt than the £100 Uncle Buck  offered to 
pay.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mr Ts complaint. To put things right, I direct Uncle Buck  LLP to 
pay Mr T £150.  Uncle Buck should  make this payment directly  to Mr T rather than using it to 
reduce his outstanding balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2657186