K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain Santander UK Plc (Santander) applied  different rates  and charges 
to transfers made from their current account to a Euro account within a short time of each 
other. Theyre also unhappy about Santanders  actions when they tried to cancel the online 
transfer.
background
On 28 February around 11.30 Mr and Mrs O made  and online transfer from their current  
account to an overseas  account held in Euros.  They said a number of minutes later they 
discovered Santanders One Pay FX App (the app) which  they then used to transfer a 
smaller test amount of £100 to the same  account. Mr and Mrs O were unhappy as they got a 
better exchange rate using the app and werent charged a £15 fee as they had been  using 
their online banking. They complained as they thought the ability to use the app for such  a 
transfer shouldve  been highlighted during the online process and asked for Santander to 
apply the lower exchange rate to the first online  transfer and to refund the £15 fee.
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. They said the fees for the online transfer had been 
applied correctly and that during the online  process the customer  is made aware before 
completing the transaction that once done  they are unable to recall the transfer once its 
authorised. Notwithstanding their position,  during our investigation, Santander  refunded the 
£15 fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought both the online and the app transfer methods made the exchange 
rate and costs  clear  before  Mr and Mrs O chose  to commit to making the transfers, so he 
didnt think Santander  need to apply  the lower exchange rate. He also thought when asked  
to stop the online transfer  Santander  followed the correct  process  and did what they 
shouldve done  to try and stop the payment  whilst explaining that although theyd attempt to 
stop the payment successful cancellation couldnt  be guaranteed. So overall he didnt think 
Santander had acted unfairly  or unreasonably.  And he thought  Mr and Mrs Os request for 
Santander to change their procedures or offer a better service was a matter  for the regulator  
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). 
Mr and Mrs O accepted  that responsibility  for some  of the points theyd raised rested with 
the FCA but said they felt very hard done by at the single  end user customer level. Although  
they thought the investigator  had gained a good  overall grasp of the issues they asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and raised additional points for the ombudsman to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusion as the investigator and for much  the same reasons. 
I think its perfectly understandable that when  anyones transferring money overseas they 
want to minimise the cost of that by achieving the best possible  exchange  rate and reducing 
or avoiding  any fees involved. So Ive got sympathy  for the situation  Mr and Mrs O find 
themselves in. But what Ive got to decide is whether  what the higher cost theyve ended up 
paying was because of anything Santander  have done wrong.  Im afraid, I dont think it is. 
And theres  not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told them  in his 
Ref: DRN22743542detailed view and the letter endorsing  sent on the 5 and 10 June 2019 respectively  I think  
hes covered the points  clearly. 
Shortly after transferring  the money  via online banking Mr and Mrs O say they happened 
upon the app which at that time offered  a better  rate and had no fees.  Although the app was 
available to Mr and Mrs O and suited  the circumstances  particular to their transfer it was 
more restricted than an online transfer so wasnt a direct alternative to it. The app had a 
number of features  which limited its use so I cant agree its something Santander shouldve 
highlighted as an alternative available during the online  process.
From all the information Ive seen  Im satisfied Santanders website set out the different  ways  
in which  an international payment could be made which included  the availability of both the 
online payment  and the app. Im also satisfied that before completing the online transfer  Mr  
and Mrs O were  advised of the indicative  rate that would be applied and the charges 
associated with the payment. Its also clear from the calls that, although Santander took 
details and told Mr and Mrs O theyd try to cancel the payment, they pointed out this wasnt 
guaranteed. So I dont  agree that a lack of coordination or failure to communicate internally 
was to blame. Overall  I cant  agree that Santander have done anything wrong and it follows  
that I cant fairly and reasonably uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274354