K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) wont  refund several transactions 
made from his current account that he didnt authorise.  
background
Mr T travelled abroad on holiday  on 10 March  2018 with his wife. Upon arrival, Mr T used  his 
Nationwide debit card to withdraw  cash from an ATM.  On the evening of 13 March 2018,  and 
leading into the early hours of 14 March 2018, several transactions were  made  from Mr Ts 
Nationwide account  which took it into an unauthorised overdraft. Mr T disputes  that he 
authorised these transactions. Mr Ts wages were also paid into his account on the 13 March 
2018. 
The transactions in dispute  are well known to both parties, so I wont set-them out in detail 
here. 
Mr T says he went out in the evening of the 13 March 2018 to buy milk as he was staying in 
a holiday apartment.  He went alone whilst his wife stayed  at the apartment for the evening. 
He remembers taking  his wallet  which was in the pocket  of his jeans. Whilst out Mr T says 
he initially  stopped  off at a local bar for a couple  of drinks and paid for them using cash,  
before returning  to the apartment  with the milk. 
The next morning  Mr T says he attempted to book  their seats  for the flight  back  home. His 
payment was declined.  He was then sent a SMS  message by Nationwide which  asked if he 
had tried to make the payment  he just attempted. Mr T replied saying he did, and he was 
sent another message  which said he can now try the payment again.  Mr T did that and his 
payment was declined.  This led him to search for his wallet, which  he couldnt find. Mr T 
reported his cards  including his Nationwide debit card - as lost or stolen.  
Around this time, Mr T says he discovered  a substantive amount of money  had left his 
account by way of several transactions he didnt authorise and had no knowledge of. A 
further text message alerted him as hed gone into an unarranged overdraft. Mr T also 
questions how Nationwide  could let his account  go into an unauthorised overdraft. 
Nationwide says theres no viable point that Mr Ts PIN couldve been compromised and that 
it was unusual that no balance enquiries  were carried out. In summary, it concluded the 
transactions were  genuine and so rejected Mr Ts claim. 
Our investigator looked into this matter, and they thought it was most likely Mr T did 
authorise the transactions. And they didnt  think Nationwide did anything  wrong  by permitting 
Mr Ts account  to go into an unauthorised overdraft. In reaching their conclusions,  our 
investigator also considered evidence given  to this service by Mr Ts other  card and account  
providers. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T raised  further points relating to how this type of fraud couldve been 
carried out and why Nationwide hadnt contacted  him sooner when this irregular activity was 
occurring on his account. 
As Mr T hasnt agreed with our investigator, the complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide.   
Ref: DRN28403252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator.  Ill explain why. 
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr T liable for the disputed  withdrawals  if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that he made  or authorised them himself. Im satisfied from 
the banks technical evidence Mr Ts genuine  card and PIN were used to make the disputed 
transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not necessarily enough to enable 
Nationwide to hold him liable. So that means I also need to think about  whether the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not that Mr T consented to the withdrawals being  made.  
Ive thought very carefully about this and having  done that I think  this is a finely  balanced 
matter. Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or unclear I need to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what  I think  is most likely to have happened.  
Mr T says that he did not write his PIN down nor had he disclosed it to anyone  including 
his wife. In his wallet he had at least two other  cards; a debit card for Business A and a 
credit card for Business B.  He says all three of these cards had different PIN numbers, and 
they would  have been based on different memorable  dates. Mr T has said that he had a 
European health insurance  card in his wallet which, if his memory serves him right, had his 
date of birth on there. 
Ive already said that Im satisfied from the technical  records Nationwide  have given me that 
the transactions in dispute here were predominantly  carried out by CHIP and PIN. I note 
Mr Ts comments and research about how fraud of this type could be carried  out, but as 
things stand its unlikely  a cards CHIP can be cloned by fraudsters unlike transactions  
where only a magnetic  strip is required. So that would mean Mr Ts genuine card was likely 
used to carry out these  transactions.  
A key question I have  to ask myself is how Mr Ts PIN number was compromised if he didnt,  
as he says, authorise these transactions. 
Mr T says he last used his Nationwide debit card when he arrived  at his destination, likely at 
or near the airport.  So that wouldve been  three  days before his wallet was lost or stolen and 
when the transactions took place.  If a potential fraudster shoulder-surfed Mr T whilst using 
his card,  and watched him enter his PIN number, theyd have had to follow him to his 
apartment and then waited three days for the opportune moment  to steal his wallet.  To my 
mind, this scenario  appears highly unlikely. 
Nationwides technical records also show the PIN was entered correctly for the first two 
transactions. So I think whoever it was knew the PIN and its less likely they deduced  it using 
other information they had. 
Given the time that has elapsed, Mr T cannot remember  what his PIN was for his Nationwide  
card. I appreciate  that memories fade with time. Ive considered whether its likely his date of 
birth, which wouldve likely been  on his European Health card, could have  been  the basis  for 
his PIN. And if it was, that it wouldve aided  a potential fraudster. But technical information 
detailing the use of Mr Ts debit card with Business A somewhat diminishes this possibility. 
Ref: DRN28403253I say that because, having considered and interrogated the information Business A have  
given me, Im satisfied  it shows  that during the night  of these disputed transactions the 
correct PIN was also entered for this card. Specifically, it shows  one of the transactions  
attempted was declined  due to insufficient funds   the records wouldnt show this entry 
unless the correct PIN was first entered. 
So given Mr T says he had different PIN numbers for all his cards, I cant think of an 
explanation as to how an unauthorised party couldve  known both PINs  for this and his 
Nationwide card. 
Mr T did have  another card, his credit card with Business B. Ive also seen the technical 
records for this card too. Mr T says he carried out the 11 March 2018  cash withdrawal using 
this card.  But there were also two failed attempts  due to the incorrect  PIN being entered on 
the 13 March  2018   and no further  attempts were  made. These two attempts happened  at 
around the same time as the use of the Nationwide and Business A cards on that evening.   
Mr T questions that if he had authorised the Nationwide transactions,  why he wouldnt 
similarly have  done so for transactions on his Business B credit card given it had a 
substantive credit limit. I also note that this credit  limit significantly surpassed  the funds 
available in his Nationwide  current account.  I think this is a very valid point, especially as no 
valid PIN attempts were made on the night of the disputed transactions  on the credit card. 
Mr T also questions  why he would have even bothered using  his Business A debit card as 
he rarely  used that account and it had a very small balance. I note that the information Ive 
seen from Business A is consistent with what Mr T says about the balance and use of this 
account. 
Ive carefully considered  these points. Having done  that, Im persuaded on balance, that its 
more likely Mr T did authorise  the transactions he disputes with Nationwide. This is a finely  
balanced matter,  given the nature of the events and information I have, and the arguments  
Ive been presented with. But ultimately, I cant explain  how any potential  fraudster wouldve 
known two different  PIN numbers for both the Nationwide and Business A cards.  
I note Mr T was paid his wages on the 13 March 2018 into his Nationwide  account, and no 
balance enquiries  were made on the card before the first attempts were made. This is 
unusual and though not definitive evidence in of itself, suggests  some level of knowledge of 
the account and its activities.  
In reaching the conclusion  that Mr T more likely than not authorised these transactions, I 
havent discounted the possibility that he may have shared his PIN numbers with another 
party. But this would  still mean he likely  authorised  these transactions.  This means I dont  
think Nationwide are liable for the transactions Mr T disputes.  
I note Mr T has said that Nationwide ought  to have done more  to flag the unusual  activity on 
his account sooner than it did, and thereby raising it with him sooner. But given I think its 
likely he authorised the transactions, Im not persuaded this wouldve made any difference.  
Lastly, Ive gone onto consider Mr Ts other complaint point   that is why Nationwide allowed 
his current account  to go into an unauthorised overdraft. Nationwide  have given me a copy 
of the applicable terms and conditions  for Mr Ts account. And on it I can see a section that 
deals with Unarranged Overdrafts. 
Ref: DRN28403254I note section 35 says If you do not have enough money to use (including  any arranged  
overdraft) to make  a payment you ask us to make, well decide whether  or not to make the 
payment. Your payment  instruction  will be treated as a request for an unarranged overdraft.  
Ive considered what Mr T has said about this, including that he has never  had an overdraft 
with Nationwide  and that in the UK he would likely  be declined a payment if there  werent 
enough funds  available. 
The terms Ive cited above  leaves it to Nationwide to decide on an individual  basis, whether 
to grant  an unarranged overdraft  and I imagine  its systems and processes and designed to 
deal with different  scenarios to do this. 
I must decide if I think Nationwide has acted fairly  in its decision to give Mr T an unarranged 
overdraft. And given what the term and conditions say about  this, and that I think its most 
likely Mr T authorised the transactions that led to the overdraft, I dont  think  Nationwides 
done anything  wrong.  
So in summary,  taking everything into account, I find, on balance,  that Mr T most likely 
authorised the disputed  transactions. It follows that Nationwide is entitled to hold him liable  
for them. I also find that Nationwide havent done  anything wrong in giving Mr T an 
unarranged overdraft. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840325