K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 1998 and 2002. Miss B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold the MPPI policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Miss B case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss B took out her original mortgage with Nationwide in 1982. No MPPI was taken at this 
time  and Nationwide has said it didnt start selling MPPI until about 1987. In 1988,  Miss B 
applied for a further advance on her mortgage  again, she didnt take out MPPI. 
Nationwide has provided a copy of an application  for MPPI which was completed in 1998  
but she didnt  take any extra borrowing at the time.  Miss B then applied  for another  further 
advance in 2002  and completed another application to increase her level of MPPI  cover to 
include this new borrowing. Nationwide has also provided a copy of this application  which 
shows that the MPPI is an optional, separate product to the advance.
So taking everything in to account,  I think Nationwide made  it clear  that Miss B didnt have to 
take out the MPPI policies  and that she chose to take them out  although I can understand 
if she cant remember this as they were taken  out so long ago.
Nationwide didnt recommend the MPPI  policies  to Miss B so it didnt have to check  if they 
were right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss B got the information she needed  to 
decide if they were  right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss B about  the MPPI  policies  wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the MPPI policies - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time she took 
them out, it doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI cover - so they would have  been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  
like the MPPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI policies 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI policies to 
Miss B.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Miss B because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Miss 
B, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN21454272To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premiums  - and I think  that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policies were  mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Miss B any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premiums. Nationwide should also pay back  to Miss B any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Miss B the extra she paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI policies. 
Nationwide should  also pay Miss B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss B can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI policies to Miss B.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2145427