K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Z complain  that Santander  UK Plc was unsympathetic when Mr Z was unable  to 
work for a period  and they struggled  to pay their mortgage as a result.
background
Mr and Mrs Z have  a mortgage with Santander.  In early 2018  Mr Z was taken ill and as a 
result was unable  to work, so Mr and Mrs Z had a reduced income.
Santander agreed a reduced payment arrangement,  and Mr and Mrs Z have no complaint  
about what happened during this time.
The payment arrangement ended in November 2018 and Santander got in touch with Mr Z in 
early December. He explained  that he was still having some  health problems and was still 
unable to work, but expected to return to work  in around February 2019. The advisor that 
Mr Z spoke  with didnt agree to extend  the payment arrangement.  Instead he asked Mr Z to 
get some  further  information, including medical information.
Mr Z complained. Santander said he needed  to speak to a specific team and accepted  he 
should have been put in contact with that team immediately. It offered £30 compensation, 
and put Mr Z in contact  with the team. Mr Z spoke to the team a couple  of weeks  later, and it 
agreed to extend  the previous payment arrangement. 
Mr Z returned to work in February  2019  as he had planned, and was then able to clear the 
arrears. But he remained unhappy about  how the December  call had been handled, and 
what he saw as the change in attitude  from when Santander had been sympathetic and 
helpful earlier in the year. Our adjudicator  didnt  think  things had been  badly handled  so 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr Z asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of Mr Zs illness, and Im sure it was a difficult  and stressful  year for both 
Mr and Mrs Z. Im glad to hear that Santander was able to be sympathetic and helpful  at first, 
agreeing a reduced payment arrangement to assist them.
This complaint is about what happened  when  that arrangement came to an end. Its not 
unusual for payment arrangements  to be relatively short-term. This is because  a borrowers 
circumstances can change  and even if they dont, reduced payments means arrears build 
up. Those arrears have  to be paid back at some  point,  and if a reduced arrangement goes  
on too long theres  a risk the arrears  will get to a level the borrower  will struggle to repay  
even when their situation  improves.
I dont therefore  think it was unfair for Santander  to want  to review the arrangement in 
November / December 2018.
When Mr Z spoke to the advisor  for that review, it seemed that his situation might  have 
changed. It had always been understood that he would  be unable to work for a time. But 
during the call, Mr Z explained  that he had been back in hospital again recently, and his 
Ref: DRN28629442return to work had been delayed as a result. Following the conversation, the advisor wasnt 
willing to extend  the previous payment arrangement without  considering  further evidence, 
which he asked Mr Z to get.
I dont think this call was handled in an unprofessional or unsympathetic manner. Mr Zs 
situation had changed, and his return to work  had been delayed.  It wasnt unreasonable for 
Santander to want to understand more about  his situation before agreeing a further 
arrangement, including to obtain  further  medical evidence   as there was a risk of the 
arrears increasing to an unsustainable level. 
Santander could  have referred  Mr Z to the relevant team  immediately, and it offered £30 
compensation to say sorry  for that. And, in the early  December  call, the agent also agreed to 
refund two arrears  fees that had been  charged  since the previous arrangement had ended. 
A couple of weeks later,  Mr Z provided  more information and Santander agreed to extend  
the previous arrangement. Overall, I think it treated  him fairly   and Im pleased to hear that 
Mr Z has now returned to work  and managed  to repay the arrears, and the mortgage is back  
on a sound footing. I do understand why this was a worrying time. But I dont,  on balance, 
think Santander treated  him unsympathetically or harshly, and I dont therefore uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Z to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 November  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862944