K820x#14complaint
Ms P and Mr P have complained about  the way in which  Barclays  Bank UK PLC has 
administered their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage account. Specifically, they are unhappy that 
Barclays failed to update the addresses  it held for them, resulting in correspondence  being 
sent to an incorrect  address.  
Ms P and Mr P have also complained that Barclays didnt let them know when their two-year 
fixed rate mortgage  product was due to expire.  
Ms P (who has dealt  with the complaint throughout)  says that if Barclays  had sent the 
mortgage documents to their correct address, theyd  have been able to switch  the mortgage  
to a lower interest  rate before the fixed rate expired.  Ms P says this has cost them  an 
additional £3,825.18 in interest on the product which expired in 2016  and £550  on the 
product which  expired  in 2018,  which they want Barclays  to reimburse.
background
Ms P and Mr P have a BTL mortgage  with Barclays. It was on a two-year  fixed rate taken out 
in July 2014, with an expiry  date of April 2016. In 2014  Barclays was informed of Ms P and 
Mr Ps correct  address,  but failed to update  its details. It had an address on file which Ms P 
and Mr P say they have  never lived at.
As a result of Barclays error, when the fixed rate was due to end in 2016, a letter about this 
was sent to the incorrect address.
In May 2016  Ms P noticed a higher monthly repayment and contacted Barclays about this on 
21 May 2016. Barclays was unable to switch mortgage products over the telephone  so an 
appointment was made with an adviser  in June 2016. 
It wasnt possible to proceed with the product  switch  at that time because Barclays  didnt 
have a record of Mr P on the mortgage.  The application was processed on 22 June 2016  
with the product switch taking effect from 2 July 2016, and the first payment under the new 
rate from 3 August 2018. Unfortunately the address was still not updated on Barclays 
system.
Ms P and Mr P say that Barclays  failure to update their address has had a catastrophic 
financial impact on them. They  say that, if Barclays had made them aware  their rate was 
due to end in April 2016, they could have switched to a new rate three months before the 
rate was due to end in 2016,  saving them £3,825.18. 
Ms P has also said that, because Barclays didnt update the address  in 2016  even  though 
it was aware it had the wrong address in its records  they werent told in 2018 that their 
fixed rate was due to end. Again, Ms P says that if theyd  been told this, theyd have been 
able to switch  to a lower  rate three months  before the expiry  date in 2018, saving them £550 
in interest.
Barclays acknowledged that its service had fallen  short in relation to its recording of the 
addresses on file. Barclays offered compensation of £650 for this. But Barclays  didnt uphold 
any other part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN24260482Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Ms P and Mr P brought the complaint to us, where it 
was considered by an investigator.  He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He was 
satisfied the offer of compensation of £650 was fair for the errors relating to the address. 
But he also explained that because this is a BTL mortgage, Barclays obligations towards its 
customers in terms of running the account  are different from those of a regulated residential 
mortgage customer. The investigator was satisfied Barclays hadnt done anything  wrong in 
its handling of the account.
Ms P replied to say that she didnt  agree  with the investigators findings. In summary, Ms P 
says that Barclays should  refund two of the higher payments taken  in 2016, because  they 
werent able to switch  products in June  2016. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad to see Barclays has acknowledged that its service fell short in relation to its 
record- keeping. Correspondence that should have gone to Ms P and Mr P was not sent to 
their address, but to an address they were  unfamiliar with. 
Ms P argues that, because of this, the financial consequences for her and Mr P have been 
catastrophic. I will look at the points Ms P has made about this.
I will begin by explaining  that this is a BTL mortgage. As such, it is considered to be a 
business venture.  This means that its up to Ms P and Mr P to manage their commercial  
mortgage as an investment.  It is their responsibility, not Barclays, to make  sure they were 
fully aware of the terms of the mortgage,  including the date when  the fixed rate products 
were due to expire.
Barclays has explained that it is possible to apply for a new fixed  rate product before the 
expiry of the existing one, but that the new product will not take effect until the existing term 
has expired. 
But Ms Ps argument (in relation to both the 2014  and 2016 products) is that, if she and Mr P 
had been notified by Barclays  that the fixed rate was due to end, they could have switched to 
a new product three months before the expiry dates. But if theyd done that, Ms P and Mr P, 
would have incurred  an early repayment charge on each product equivalent to six months  
gross interest. 
For the 2014 product this would be £9,434.40 and for the 2016 product it would be 
£5,107.86. In the circumstances, I cant see that Ms P and Mr P have  suffered any loss by 
not switching to a new product before the expiry  of the fixed  rate; indeed,  if theyd done so, 
theyd have incurred  substantial expense.
In 2016 the mortgage  was on a higher rate for the months of May,  June and July. Ms P 
thinks Barclays should refund at least  two of those payments. But I disagree.  It wasnt 
Barclays fault that Ms P and Mr P were unaware of the date of the expiry  of the fixed rate 
product. Theyd  been given all the information about  this in 2014 and it was their 
responsibility to diarise the date when theyd  need to refinance  the loan.
Ref: DRN24260483Given this, I cant hold Barclays responsible for the May 2016  payment that was made at the 
higher rate.
Ms P first spoke  to Barclays about this matter on 21 May 2016. It wasnt until 11 June  2016  
that Ms P and Mr P met with Barclays about  the new rate. The new rate was applied for on 
22 June 2016,  with the product taking  effect  from 3 July 2016 and the first payment under 
the new rate due on 3 August 2016.
Given the timeline, I think its unlikely that a product switch could have taken place  sooner  
than it did. 21 May 2016 was a Saturday  and there  was a bank holiday on 30 May 2016 and 
so only five working days in the month  after 21 May 2016. In the circumstances, given that 
Ms P and Mr P needed to see the adviser, Im not persuaded  the product switch could have 
been applied  for in May 2016.  
So Im satisfied that June  2016 was the earliest the switch could have been applied  for, 
which is what happened. The new product was effective from July 2016,  and the first 
payment under the new rate was from August 2016.  I dont think,  looking at what  happened, 
that the switch  could  have  happened sooner. This means that I dont  hold Barclays  
responsible for the three payments at the higher rate which Ms P and Mr P made for May, 
June and July 2016.
Ms P and Mr P switched to a new rate in 2018 when the 2016 rate expired.  Ive explained 
above why it wouldnt have been feasible to switch rates  three months before the rate 
expired, due to the early repayment  charge  theyd have  had to pay.
conclusion
Im satisfied that Barclays failure  to record the correct address on file has caused distress  
and inconvenience  to Ms P and Mr P. Barclays  has offered  compensation of £650 for the 
trouble and upset  its caused by this. 
I think this is fair in all the circumstances. My reason is that the incorrect address has not 
resulted in Ms P and Mr P having  to make  higher payments under their mortgage. The 
higher payments were made because Ms P and Mr P had overlooked the date when the 
fixed rate was due to expire in 2016. 
Because this is a commercial mortgage, its the responsibility of Ms P and Mr P to manage 
their investment, and so for that reason I cant hold Barclays liable  if Ms P and Mr P hadnt 
diarised the date when they would need  to re-arrange their borrowing onto a new product.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  I simply  leave it to Ms P and Mr P to decide 
if they want to accept Barclays Bank UK Plcs offer of £650 compensation for trouble and 
upset caused  by recording an incorrect address in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 January 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ref: DRN24260484ombudsman
Ref: DRN2426048