K820x#13complaint
Mr S complains that Newcastle Building  Society (NBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S applied for a mortgage from NBS in September  1988 at the time Mr S didnt  take out a 
PPI policy.
In December  1988, Mr S took out a monthly  premium PPI policy to cover  the mortgage  
repayments in event of him not being able to work due to an accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment.
In October 1991, Mr S took out a further advance. The PPI policy  was amended  to cover  
the increased borrowing.
Mr S took also took further advances in September 2004, November 2006 and December 
2008. 
Each time the cover  on the PPI was increased to cover the further  borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr S disagreed  with the adjudicators  
findings so the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done so Im not upholding Mr S complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S has told us that it wasnt made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Ive thought about this but NBS has shown us a copy of the original PPI application form.       
I can see Mr S completed the application  form for the PPI in November 1988. NBS has also 
shown us a completion  notice  for the mortgage which  is dated  September  1988. So Mr S 
had already held the mortgage for two months before applying  for the PPI. So I think hed be 
aware the PPI was something he didnt have  to have.
NBS has also been able to show us copies  of all the further advance applications. And I can 
see that on each  of them a box has been ticked to confirm Mr S wanted  the PPI cover.
Mr S representative has pointed to the 2004 mortgage offer dated September  2004  which  
included PPI as evidence Mr S didnt have  a fair choice.  But NBS has shown us a copy of 
the further advance application  Mr S made in July 2004 and I can see a box has been  ticked 
to indicate Mr S wanted PPI. So the mortgage  offer reflected Mr S requirements.
And Mr S paid the PPI premiums for over 20 years. If it was something he didnt want or 
need Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage but Ive not seen any evidence  
that he did. 
Ref: DRN21726422Taking everything into account  I think NBS made  Mr S aware the PPI was optional  and he 
chose to take it out.
I dont think NBS gave  Mr S a personal recommendation to take out the PPI. So it didnt 
have to make sure it was right for him. But it did have to give him the clear information he 
needed so he could decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example Mr S has told us he didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions that wouldnt have been  covered.
Mr S told us his employer would not have paid any sick pay if he couldnt work. And he told 
us that he had no savings or other  resources  he could have used to pay the mortgage  if he 
couldnt work. So the PPI would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put Mr S off taking  out the cover. 
Mr S representatives have told us Mr S wasnt told by NBS that he could seek cover from a 
different provider. But I dont think NBS had any obligation to do so. So I wouldnt uphold     
Mr S complaint on this point.
In summary  I think the policy was likely  presented as being optional  when it when it was first 
sold to Mr S and when it was later increased  to cover the further borrowing. And I think  Mr S 
chose to take out the policy. I cant be sure of the information that was given to Mr S at the 
time. But even if NBS had given Mr S all the clear information it should have, I still think  hed 
have bought the PPI in 1988  and agreed  to the subsequent increases in cover.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Newcastle  
Building Society. Under the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2172642