K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained to Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life)  
about a whole-of-life (WoL) critical illness policy he was sold in 1998.
background
Mr D is represented in making the complaint.   In April 1998 he went to an adviser to discuss  
financial plans for his future.  He took out a modest  pension plan, but it was also identified  he 
had a need for critical illness  cover and income protection.  Mr D was single  and aged  49.  
The adviser sold Mr D a reviewable WoL policy providing a sum assured of £40,000 in the 
event of a qualifying critical illness.  The premium at outset was £50 per month.  It was also 
recommended that Mr D take out permanent disability benefit and income protection,  but 
these were not available due to medical  underwriting.
Mr D maintained the payment of premiums for the policy for around  20 years, but has 
recently surrendered  it and took the encashment  value.  Hes since  raised a number of 
concerns about  the policy, but in summary said:
The policy wasnt suitable for him, and wasnt properly  explained.
He tried to cancel the policy  on more than one occasion in 2001 and 2002 but was 
pressured to keep it.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  recommended that it shouldnt be upheld.  
He said the cover provided by the policy was suitable for Mr Ds circumstances, and was 
satisfied it had been explained properly.   He also said that whilst Mr D had enquired  about 
cancelling the policy and was persuaded not to, he didnt think there was undue pressure to 
keep it.
Mr Ds representative responded disagreeing.  He questioned whether there was a real need 
for critical  illness cover and if it was a priority  for his future financial security.   He also 
commented that most people dont read all the specific  details  of policy  documentation  and it 
was the responsibility  of the adviser and provider to ensure  Mr D understood the policy.  He  
reiterated that had Mr D known the limitations of what  was covered, he wouldnt have taken 
out the policy.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator,  and for much the same  reasons.
When considering  whether  the policy was suitable for Mr D, Ive reviewed his overall  
circumstances.  As  a single person wanting  to ensure he was financially secure, critical 
illness cover  can be a valuable benefit.  In the event that he was severely  unwell, a 
successful claim  under  the policy would provide a financial buffer  if he couldnt work or 
needed funds  to make adjustments to his lifestyle.
Ref: DRN29771892Mr D said he thought  the policy had a savings  element, but was disappointed with the recent 
surrender value. Although putting money  away in savings or investments is a sensible way 
of planning for the future, its not the same as a WoL policy.  The benefit and cover is in 
place from the outset and provides the reassurance of immediate protection.  Whilst some  of 
the premium amounts  paid were used to invest,  this was only to achieve the purpose of 
subsidising premiums in later years as the cost of cover became more expensive.
When the policy was taken out in 1998  Im satisfied it was likely  explained  to Mr D.  The 
documentation accurately refers to the how the policy works and what cover  is provided.  I 
note the argument that often not all paperwork is read, but I cant hold Sun Life responsible 
for that.  As other types of insurances were recommended, but then werent  available due to 
underwriting, I think its likely the implications  of different cover were  discussed. All critical 
illness policies cover a different  range  of conditions, and none cover  every health issue. But 
Mr Ds policy  did protect against a wide range of conditions and whether he was aware or 
not, it undoubtedly provided  a genuine  protection over the last 20 years.   So even knowing 
that not all conditions are covered, I think Mr D would have likely  still taken  the policy.
Its not disputed  that Mr D enquired about  cancelling the policy  in 2001  and 2002.  The  fact 
he didnt suggest  to me that the benefits of keeping  the cover  was explained to him.  Had  he 
wanted to ultimately  cancel the policy I believe he could have done so then, or in the 
subsequent years.
Overall I believe the policy was suitable  for Mr D and provided a genuine  benefit.   The  WoL 
nature of the cover meant he had the flexibility to maintain the protection as long as he 
wanted and could afford to. Instead  he chose  to surrender the policy  and take the 
encashment value.  But as I believe the policy provided a benefit  whilst in force, and cant 
say Mr D was treated unfairly, it would be unreasonable for me to now ask Sun Life to do 
anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  detailed  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  Mr Ds complaint 
against Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada (UK) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2977189