K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1996, and then a second  policy taken  out in 2003. Mrs B says Nationwide 
Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the 1996 policy was mis-sold, but that the 2003  policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain  why below.
1996 sale
Mrs B initially took out PPI with her mortgage in 1996.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint in relation to this sale because  I dont think  Nationwide  
gave Mrs B clear enough information about  the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mrs B knew about at 
the time or had suffered from in the 12 months  before  the sale. And I havent  seen clear 
evidence that Mrs B was made sufficiently aware  of these terms during the sale.
Nationwide has said that Mrs Bs mortgage  application form directed her to read a PPI policy 
leaflet, and that the leaflet  explained that pre-existing  medical  conditions  werent covered by 
the policy. But I dont  think directing  a customer to a separate leaflet is enough to highlight  
the exclusion. And I dont think the exclusion was prominent  enough  in the leaflet to make 
Mrs B sufficiently aware of it. So I still dont  think the exclusion was made clear enough to 
her.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B because shes told us that at the time of this sale she 
was suffering from medical conditions. Shes  told us shed had to take time off work and had 
seen a doctor about these conditions. And that she receives ongoing treatment.
Based on what Mrs B has told us, I dont  think shed have taken the policy out if it had been 
made clear to her that any time off work as a result of these conditions wouldnt have been  
covered by it. So I think shes lost out as a result  of Nationwide not making  the exclusion 
clear to her.
Nationwide has also said Mrs B kept the policy even  after having a claim for one of her 
medical conditions  declined, so she must have been happy with it even though it didnt cover 
her conditions. But I dont  think  not cancelling the policy means Mrs B was happy with it. So I 
still dont think she would  have taken the policy if the exclusion had been made  clear  to her.
Ref: DRN238017422003 sale
In 2003, Mrs B amended the PPI policy to increase the level of cover and monthly benefit it 
provided. A new policy was set up to make these amendments.
When the policy was sold, Mrs Bs mortgage  had already been running for a number of 
years. So I dont think she can reasonably have thought that she had to have the PPI to get 
the mortgage. And Mrs B has said she understood that the monthly cost of the PPI would 
increase. So I think  it was made clear to her that the PPI was separate from the mortgage 
and had a separate cost.
And so, based on the evidence I have, I think its likely that Nationwide  made  it clear  to 
Mrs B that she had a choice about  the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Nationwide gave Mrs B any personalised advice about the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means it didnt have  to check  if the PPI 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she received. 
And it wouldve meant she didnt need to rely on her savings to make her mortgage  
repayments if she wasnt earning.
The terms of the policy excluded claims resulting from pre-existing medical  conditions,  but 
only for the first 12 months. So the policy  wouldve  covered  Mrs Bs medical conditions after 
the first 12 months. She could also have  claimed  for any other medical condition and for 
unemployment as normal during this period. And a mortgage is a long-term financial risk. So 
I think the policy would still have been useful  to Mrs B, despite this initial period when her 
medical conditions  wouldnt have been  covered.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs B off taking it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of this PPI policy  to Mrs B.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of this PPI policy  to Mrs B because :
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Mrs B has said she didnt  make a claim on this policy  as she assumed it wouldnt be 
successful. But the insurer  has said it would consider a retrospective claim.  So I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to require Nationwide to pay any further compensation as a result of 
this. If Mrs B wants to make a retrospective claim, she should contact the insurer  directly.
Ref: DRN23801743Mrs B has also questioned why the policy ended when her mortgage  was closed, as the 
terms of the policy  say she couldve been covered until she was 65. But the policy was to 
cover the repayments  on Mrs Bs mortgage. So I think it was reasonable that it was 
cancelled when the mortgage  ended. So I dont think Nationwide  should  have  to pay any 
further compensation as a result of this either.
what the business needs  to do
For the policy sold in 1996, Nationwide should put Mrs B in the position shed be in now if 
she hadnt taken  out the PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Nationwide should:
Pay Mrs B the amount  she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on*.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
For the policy sold in 2003, Nationwide should pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide  should also pay back 
to Mrs B any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mrs B the extra she paid each  month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mrs B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back  the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partially  uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2380174