K821x#15Complaint
Mr A complains that a business NewDay Ltd is responsible for giving him a credit card that 
was unaffordable.  He also feels the business acted irresponsibly by increasing  his credit 
limit.
Background
Mr A took out a credit card with a business  Ill call L in 2007 with a credit limit of £500. In 
April 2014 this limit was increased to £1,250 and in October 2014 it was increased again to a 
£2,000. NewDay  took over the account in 2015, so its now responsible  for what happened.  
Mr A complains that L didnt carry out an appropriate  level of checks  when the account was 
opened, and increased his credit  limit to an unaffordable level.  So hed like his interest and 
charges refunded and any negative credit markers removed from his credit  file. He said that 
as hed previously  had payday  loans,  and defaulted on his existing borrowing - so L 
shouldve been  aware that hed struggled  to manage his finances and was in financial 
difficulty. He said that if theyd done  the correct checks, they might not have lent to him and 
wouldnt have increased his limit.
NewDay said the necessary checks were  carried  out when Mr A applied for his credit card. 
An affordability check was carried out on the income Mr A had told them he earned on his 
application form. They also said that when Mr As credit limit was increased,  L had reviewed 
how the account had previously been  run. And before it was increased, a letter  was sent to 
Mr A explaining  the credit  limit increase would take effect within  40 days and to contract  L if 
he didnt want this to happen. But Mr A didnt  do this. 
Mr A didnt agree. He felt that by not undertaking an income check,  L had breached  the 
lending code  as they hadnt  checked he could afford the repayments in a sustainable way. 
So he asked this service  to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think we could look into Mr As credit card application  or the fees 
applied before December 2011.  Thats because Mr A had complained to NewDay more than 
six years  after hed opened the credit  card account, and more than three years after he 
ought to have known he had reason to complain.  The rules that govern our service  say that 
we can only consider complaints brought to our service within six years of the event 
complained about,  or if later, within three  years  of the time when a customer ought to have 
realised they had cause for complaint.
However, our investigator did think we could look at the charges Mr A had incurred since 
December 2011,  and the credit limit increases. 
Our investigator was satisfied that all relevant charges had been set out on Mr As 
statements - so she didnt  recommend this part of the complaint be upheld.  However,  she 
felt Mr A was showing signs of financial difficulty before the credit limits were increased  in 
April and October 2014. So she thought NewDay should refund  all the interest and charges 
Mr A had paid since his limit had been  increased  from £500, plus 8% standard interest. She 
also thought NewDay  should remove any adverse credit information  linked to these 
increased limits. 
NewDay didnt agree. They felt if they changed the information on Mr As credit  file it 
wouldnt be an accurate  reflection  of the conduct  of his account.  They  also said Mr A was 
still using the credit card he has complained about, and was still utilising the higher limit, so 
Ref: DRN21525802they wanted an update  on Mr As financial position. They  also didnt feel they should have to 
pay the 8% interest.  So they asked for an ombudsman  to look into the case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
Credit card application and charges pre-December 2011
As both parties have  accepted the investigators position,  and I agree with the investigators 
reasoning, I see no reason to reach  a different conclusion.  
Increased credit limits
When deciding whether to lend to a customer,  a finance company has certain obligations  
that it needs to meet,  including carrying out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  to see if a 
customer can afford to repay  any new borrowing. Its clear that L made a number of checks  
to assess the affordability of the new credit card limits they gave Mr A, so Ive thought 
carefully about whether what they did was reasonable, or if they should have done  more. 
Based on the information they had, I think L should  have done  more  to check  the 
affordability of the increased limits given Mr As financial position.
NewDay said that Ls decision to increase a credit limit was based on utilisation of the 
account, account maintenance, account  balance, credit reference  agency information and 
their risk strategy. They also said Mr As credit limit wouldnt have been increased if his 
account balance  had been over its limit at the times  in question.  And that they didnt have 
any record of Mr As financial  difficulties until after he contacted  them to say theyd lent him 
money irresponsibly  in December 2017.  
It isnt for me to tell a business what lending criteria they should use before agreeing  to lend 
to someone, but they do need to make sure their checks are reasonable and proportionate 
to the lending. In addition,  the business  shouldve  checked to see whether Mr A could repay  
his borrowing in a sustainable manner.
Ive looked at Mr As account statements before the increased limits were agreed  and Ive 
seen there  were late fees and over-limit fees applied  for several months before the increases 
took place. Ive also seen that the credit  limit was regularly exceeded towards the end of 
2013 - before the credit limit was increased  for the first time.  So this suggests  Mr A couldnt 
afford the credit limit increases. And based  on the account management Ive seen from Mr 
As statements, its difficult for me to conclude that sufficient checks  were made before the 
credit limit increases were applied to Mr As account. 
As Mr A was already incurring late fees and over-limit  fees for several months before the 
increased limits were agreed, I dont  think the increased limits he was given were affordable, 
or sustainable. Based on the evidence  Ive seen, there were opportunities for L to identify 
that Mr A might struggle to sustainably  pay back what he borrowed. I also think  that if L had 
asked more questions  about Mr As income  and expenditure,  its likely that they wouldnt 
have given him the credit card limits  they eventually did.
Ref: DRN21525803Mr A complains that L didnt tell him his credit limit was being increased.  However  Ive seen 
system records  which show letters  were  sent to Mr A at the address held on file on 14 
February 2014 and 16 September 2014. So this makes me think  L did send Mr A notification 
of the increases in line with their terms and conditions.
Mr A hasnt disputed hes had the benefit  of the credit he was given, so I think its fair for 
NewDay to be able to ask Mr A to pay that back at a rate that takes his financial position into 
account, and doesnt cause him financial difficulties. But I think they should refund  the 
interest and charges added to the account  since the limit was increased from the original 
£500. Those are charges  Mr A wouldnt have had to pay if the credit limit on his account 
hadnt been increased. NewDay  should  also remove any record  of the adverse credit 
information and increased limits  since April 2014 from Mr As credit file so he isnt negatively 
impacted because of whats  happened. I appreciate that NewDay  says that Mr As credit file 
needs to show  an accurate  record  of the conduct  of the account. But as Ive already said,  Mr 
A wouldnt have got into the difficulties he did on the account  if the credit  limit hadnt  been 
increased. 
I understand that Mr A is looking to enter into a repayment plan with NewDay  to repay the 
outstanding balance until it decreases  below  the £500 limit. I would encourage Mr A to 
contact NewDay about this.
Bearing in mind the circumstances  of this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for NewDay to charge Mr A any interest on the outstanding  balance until it is 
below the £500. Thats because he shouldnt have  had the increased  limits  in the first place. 
However, I should point  out that going  forward, NewDay is entitled to record information 
about the conduct of the account on Mr As credit file. Mr A should  be aware that this means 
the future  information  about repayment plans or defaults on the account may be recorded on 
his credit file.
My final decision
I instruct NewDay Ltd to:
remove all interest and charges applied to Mr As credit card account since the credit 
limit on his account was first increased  in April 2014;
freeze interest and charges on the account until the outstanding balance  is back 
within the original  £500 credit  limit;
discuss an affordable  way for Mr A to bring his account back  within the original £500  
credit limit;
remove any adverse information  about  the account from Mr As credit  file from April 
2014;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
 
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2152580