K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Standard  Life Assurance Limited amended  their endowment  
policy to a life policy without their consent.  
background
Mr and Mrs R held a with-profits endowment policy with Standard Life which  they took out in 
1988. They  altered the terms of their mortgage  around ten years later and thought they were  
making regular payments  into their endowment plan. 
However, Mr and Mrs R believe that Standard  Life had in fact changed the terms of their 
endowment plan at the same time their mortgage  was altered. They say the plan 
administrators converted their endowment policy into life cover only, which  they complain 
was carried out without their consent and was not needed as they already had life cover  in 
place. 
Mr and Mrs R believed their policy had been  changed following a letter  sent by Standard Life 
on 19 July 2018,  which stated that The monthly premium of £72.70  was paying for life cover 
only.  Mr and Mrs R are also unhappy  that Standard Life did not stop their plan automatically  
when their mortgage was redeemed.  As a result, they want  Standard  Life to compensate 
them by repaying  all the monthly premiums theyd unknowingly paid towards  life cover rather  
than the endowment plan.
Standard Life confirmed that no alterations  had been made  to Mr and Mrs Rs plan  which 
was an endowment policy providing  both life cover and savings  since the date it was taken 
out in 1988. It said that the letter stating the monthly premiums  were paying for life cover 
only was incorrect, so it apologised  for the confusion caused and offered £100  
compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that there hadnt been any 
alterations made to Mr and Mrs Rs endowment plan without their knowledge, and thought  
the £100 compensation for mistakenly being told that they were paying  for life cover  only 
was fair. The investigator also thought that it was for Mr and Mrs R to contact the plan 
administrator if they wanted to surrender the plan sooner than the scheduled maturity date. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Standard Life said that Mr and Mrs Rs endowment policy was set up to provide a life and 
savings element, which guaranteed a basic sum assured of £12,540 plus bonuses that 
would be paid upon death or maturity in 2008. Mr and Mrs R were paying  £72.70  per month,  
which was made up of £62.95 for the basic sum assured, and £9.75 for an additional  
guarantee that the amount paid upon  death within the 20 year period of the plan would never 
be less than £30,000. 
I appreciate that Standard Life told Mr and Mrs R in July 2018 that their premiums  were 
paying for life cover  only. But Standard  Life has apologised and said this was a mistake, and 
Ref: DRN25515832that the plan had ran unaltered since its inception in 1988, with both a life and savings 
element. And aside  from the error made  by Standard Life in its letter of July 2018,  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that the plan was in fact altered in any way when Mr and Mrs R decided 
to change the terms of their mortgage.  So Im satisfied this was a genuine mistake,  and I 
think Standard  Lifes offer of £100 compensation is fair in recognition of the confusion 
caused.
However, Mr and Mrs R maintain that this wasnt a mistake, and continue  to assert that their 
endowment policy was converted to a life policy when they changed their mortgage.  But 
Standard Life has provided us with a copy of the endowment assurance statement sent to 
Mr and Mrs R in March 2007  a year before  maturity  which set out the plans current 
value at that date (£22,686.05), the minimum amount that will be paid upon maturity 
(£21,720.19), as well as the amount that would be paid upon death (£30,000). 
This is all consistent with the original endowment policy Mr and Mrs R originally took out in 
1988, and theres  nothing  to suggest that it had since been altered to offer life cover only.  
Indeed, I note that Mr and Mrs R eventually surrendered  the policy in May 2007  a couple 
of months after the above statement was sent out  where Standard  Life say theyd paid a 
total of £16,793.70 in premiums and received  a payment of £23,020.95  for the surrender 
value, which  was paid into their Halifax account.  So Ive not seen enough to persuade me 
that Standard  Life altered Mr and Mrs Rs policy without  their consent.
Mr and Mrs R are also unhappy that Standard Life didnt  stop their plan automatically  or 
contact them  when  their mortgage was redeemed.  This was on the basis of a redemption 
statement sent by Abbey National  in November 1996 which  said that where  the company 
pays Masterplan endowment premiums  on a borrowers behalf,  and no new mortgage is 
being taken out with the company, the assurance company will contact you direct . 
I dont think the letter  Mr and Mrs R received from Abbey National suggests that their plan 
would be stopped automatically  by the plan administrator  once their mortgage was 
redeemed, and Standard Life say it received no instruction  in this regard, and that it wouldnt 
have known if the mortgage had been redeemed or not. Given that the maturity  date of the 
plan was scheduled for March 2008, I wouldnt have expected  Standard Life to have 
cancelled the plan early without proper  instruction  from Mr and Mrs R, so I do not think it has 
acted inappropriately  by not doing so. 
So after considering all the evidence, Im not persuaded that Standard Life has done 
anything substantially wrong, apart from providing  incorrect information in its letter  of 19 July 
2018, which I think theyve already  paid fair compensation for. So I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further.  I note that Mr and Mrs R have raised  certain points in relation  to the mis-
selling of the endowment policy and the shortfall  on their mortgage.  But this service  has 
already looked  into this matter previously, so Im unable to comment on these points  any 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Ref: DRN25515833Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2551583