K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with borrowing she took 
out at a retail  store in 2001. Mrs D was buying  some  electrical  equipment at the time. The 
account was branded  with the name of the retailer and the credit  facility was provided  by a 
high street bank.  But a company called  Financial Insurance Company Limited  is 
responsible for answering Mrs Ds complaint.  
Ill therefore refer to FICL throughout this final decision.  
background
The PPI was taken  out in the shop and added  after Mrs D signed  a loan application form, 
most probably at the counter. Mrs D says she doesnt recall  agreeing  to it or having the PPI 
explained. She says she didnt  want this type of cover.
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mrs D disagreed  and so its been passed  to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
I certainly dont doubt Mrs D now genuinely believes she was mis-sold this cover. However, I 
was sent the agreement  she signed when she took out the PPI and I can see there was a 
section on this about PPI. The PPI box said ONLY  SIGN HERE IF YOU WANT COVER. 
Mrs D signed in this box and also signed elsewhere on the form, to agree to the credit terms. 
So I think this shows she agreed  to the PPI when she applied for the credit.  
FICL provided a non-advised sale. This means it needed only to provide enough  clear  
information for Mrs D to decide  herself  whether she wanted the cover. It didnt  need  to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for her.
I think FICL  could have set out the information  about the PPI on the leaflet in a better  way. 
But I can see the monthly premium of £2.19 was set out on the form and overall  I do think 
Mrs D had access to enough information  to allow her to make an informed decision. 
Mrs D told us she had some  sickness  protection  already with her job, implying  she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs D says she enjoyed. But these dont necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Ref: DRN28715082This is because the decision  about  the PPI was for Mrs D to make. Ive also checked that 
Mrs D was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tended  to 
see in some of these policies. If shed  become  unable to work or lost her job, the PPI 
wouldve helped pay off her credit balance each month until she returned to work or until all 
the balance was returned to zero and these benefits  wouldve been in addition  to any other 
means Mrs D had in place at the time.
So although  I cant say why Mrs D decided to agree to this cover when she applied for the 
credit, I think the PPI policy  was something  that would have been of use to her. 
For me to uphold Mrs Ds complaint, Id need  to think it was more likely that she wasnt given 
an option or there were other serious  flaws in the way the policy was sold.  But the sale was 
a long time ago now and I simply dont have that evidence.  Instead, what Ive seen makes 
me think Mrs D agreed to the PPI and probably had access nearby to the information she 
needed about the PPI policy  and its rules. I dont  think theres evidence that any better   or 
more  information wouldve changed how Mrs D would have acted. 
I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint and I dont require Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2871508