K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) incorrectly  categorised  his car, following
an accident that he claimed  for on his car insurance. He also complains that UKI incorrectly
valued the car when settling the claim.
background
Mr B was involved  in a car accident  and made a claim on his car insurance.  UKI appointed
an engineer who assessed the car and said it was beyond economical repair. The engineer
said it was a Category  B, which meant it wasnt suitable  for repair  but had some usable
parts. UKI told Mr B it would pay out the market value of the car, which it valued at £450.
Mr B was unhappy with this, as he said when he had spoken  to the engineer  on the phone,
he had been told the car would just need  a new door, but there was no structural  damage.
Mr B provided UKI with a recording he had made of this call. He made  a complaint and said
the car should  be a Category N, rather than B, as it was repairable.  He was also unhappy
with the service UKI had provided as it hadnt  responded to his emails.
After some back  and forth, UKI agreed that the category could  be changed from B to N and
the car would be returned to Mr B. It said this was due to Mr Bs persistence and not
because it thought the original decision to assess it as Category B was incorrect. It said its
engineer originally classed the car as Category  B because it was considered  to be end of
life due to its age and condition and UKI didnt think it should be on the road. However, it
accepted that its customer service  could have been  better, as it hadnt responded to some of
Mr Bs emails.  It offered  him £50 compensation  to make up for this.
Mr B didnt agree that the car could be considered end of life because he hadnt had any
problems with it and had been  able to drive it after the accident. He said UKI should
compensate him further due to the inconvenience it had caused him by not settling the claim
sooner. He also thought UKI should give him a pro-rata refund for his road tax and insurance
which was suspended while the claim was dealt with. He brought  his complaint to us.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators  view so he asked  for his complaint to be looked at 
by an ombudsman.
my provisional decision
Since the complaint has come to me, UKI has confirmed that the claim has now been settled
as non-fault. It says it will therefore refund  Mr Bs insurance premiums  from the date the
policy was suspended until the end of the policy period.
Therefore, the two issues left to consider are whether UKIs valuation  of Mr Bs car was fair
and if it has caused  him undue  distress and inconvenience when handling  his claim. I will
consider each of these  in turn.
Valuation
I have considered the information UKI has provided  about how it calculated  its valuation, in
order to determine  if it is fair. It is usual  that a valuation will be calculated from the retail
market price of a vehicle  of the same make  model, model, age and mileage. UKI has
provided adverts for three cars that are the same  make and model as Mr Bs that range from
Ref: DRN28143452£499 to £995. I can see that Mr Bs car is older  than all the cars advertised  by at least three
years, so understand why UKI may calculate a lower  value. UKI has further explained that
the pre-accident  damage to the car would cost a lot of money to repair and if the cost of
these repairs was taken  into account  in the valuation, it would fall into negative equity. Its
explained this is why it thinks £450  is a fair valuation.
UKI has provided photos of Mr Bs car to show the pre-accident  damage. Ive looked  at
these photos and considering the car is 20 years old, I cant see any significant  damage
beyond what I would  expect to see on a car of that age due to wear and tear. There  are a
number of scratches, some minor dents and part of the brand badge is missing.  However,  I
dont agree that this damage  would  have a significant impact on the market  retail price, as it
is just aesthetic  and to be expected on a car of that age.
Our investigator gathered values from motor trade  guides when making his initial
assessment of the valuation. This service  considers these to be the most reliable guide of
the market value of cars, because the quotes are based on likely sales achieved, not just
advertised prices. The average  of the three quotes  was £710.66. I think  the prices from
motor trade  guides  are more likely to be a true reflection of the market  retail price of the car,
so I think it is fairer  to base the valuation on these. However, although I dont agree with UKI
that the pre-accident damage is significant,  I can see there is some damage  to the 
aesthetics. Taking that into account,  I think a fair valuation of the car is £650, just under the
average of the motor  trade guide  prices. I therefore intend to require UKI to settle the claim
based on that valuation.
Claim Handling
Mr B originally made a complaint due to the fact he felt UKI had incorrectly categorised  his
car as Category  B. I appreciate it has now changed the category and returned the car to
Mr B, however I still need  to consider if UKI have  treated Mr B unfairly  and if it has, the
impact this has had on him.
UKI said that it changed the categorisation of the car due to Mr Bs persistence and not
because the original category was incorrectly applied. If this is the case  this means that UKI
considers the car to be unsuitable  to go back on the road, but allowed it to due to Mr Bs
persistence. This would  be very irresponsible and it suggests that the categories  applied
during the assessment of damage to a car are interchangeable, which  isnt a true reflection
of their purpose. If a car is categorised  as a Category B then this category should remain.
The fact Mr B was persistent, doesnt  change whether the car is safe to go back  on the road
and therefore  how it should be categorised. Further, UKIs engineer  said on the phone  to Mr
B that the car could  be returned to him, which suggests that Category B wasnt an accurate
reflection of the condition of the car. Because UKI did change the category from B to N, it
seems likely that the original category was incorrectly applied by UKI.
As I have decided that it is likely  UKI originally incorrectly categorised Mr Bs car, I also need
to consider the impact this had on Mr B. When Mr B was originally told his car would not be
returned to him, he contacted UKI straight away. He then had to write a number of letters
and provide the recording of his call with the engineer,  before UKI reversed its decision  and
changed the category. This would  have been inconvenient for Mr B, as he had to spend time
writing detailed letters and emails. He has also explained that the car holds sentimental
value, so it would have been  frustrating  and distressing to be told that UKI wouldnt  return his
Ref: DRN28143453car to him. Particularly when he had been told that there was no structural damage  by the
engineer he spoke to on the phone.
Further, the tone of UKIs correspondence with Mr B has been dismissive and a number  of
his emails have not received responses. This would have been distressing for Mr B
considering the car had sentimental  value and it was therefore particularly important to him
that it was assessed  correctly.
For all these reasons, I propose  UKI pay an additional £200  compensation on top of the £50
already offered, to make up for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused  Mr B by
incorrectly categorising  his car.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr B accepted my provisional decision, although  he pointed out that he had not yet had the 
policy premiums refunded and wanted  assurance that this would happen. He also explained  
that UKI have not yet paid the £50 compensation it originally offered, so wanted to make  
sure it was clear that the £200 compensation  I awarded is in addition  to the £50 already 
offered.
UKI responded to say that it categorised Mr Bs car as category B because it considered the 
car to be end of life, so had no real value  from a salvage perspective.  UKI said that the 
change to the category was only made because the car had sentimental  value to Mr B and it 
didnt want to cause  him distress by depriving him of the vehicle. 
In regards to the valuation,  UKI said that the dents and scratches  on the car would cost more 
than the top book price to repair. It said from the adverts it provided,  a newer vehicle in 
better condition would cost £499  so the £650 valuation I had suggested was not fair.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision that categories shouldnt be interchangeable and if Category 
B was correctly applied  to Mr Bs car, it should remain that category regardless of Mr Bs 
requests. UKI has said that it based  its original category on the fact its engineer  thought the 
vehicle was at the end of its life, and not because of structural damage.  I have considered 
this and it doesnt change my view. Whatever the rationale, the guidelines for categorising 
vehicles say that category B applies  to a vehicle that has been declared  unsuitable  or 
beyond repair. Therefore when its engineer assessed the car, they should  only have applied  
that category  if they believed the car met this definition. Category N is when the car is 
suitable for repair. I dont  think  a car can be both of these things at the same time.  Therefore 
either the category was incorrect initially, or UKI applied an incorrect  category to please 
Mr B. As Mr Bs vehicle  has subsequently  passed  its MOT,  it seems  more likely that the 
original category was incorrect. I am therefore  not persuaded from my view that UKI got the 
category wrong  initially.
I have also considered UKIs comments about the valuation of the car. As I said in my 
provisional decision, this service  considers  trade guides to be the most reliable indication of 
the value of a vehicle,  so I see no reason to depart from this. Further, I understand UKI have 
said that there was significant pre-accident damage to the car that would reduce the value. 
Ref: DRN28143454However, the damage has to be considered in the context of the age of the car. Mr Bs car is 
20 years  old, so its reasonable  to expect that there  would be a number of dents, scratches 
and damage to the aesthetics. However all the damage UKI has pointed out is just aesthetic  
and, from looking at the photos,  not beyond what would be expected from car that is 20 
years old. I therefore disagree  that this would have  an impact on the valuation  of a car that 
age. I therefore  think  that the average  valuation  taken  from the trade guides is the fairest 
assessment of the value.
On considering the points raised  by UKI in response  to my provisional decision, I havent 
seen a reason  to depart from my original conclusion.
Since I issued my provisional  decision UKI has confirmed that it has issued  a refund to Mr B 
for the premiums paid during  the time the insurance was suspended. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.  I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Settle the claim based on a valuation of £650.  U K Insurance  Limited should also pay
interest on the amount due to Mr B at eight percent per annum simple. If it has already
settled the claim then this should be on the additional £200 above the original valuation.
If it has not then this should  be on the full amount. Interest should be paid from the date
of the claim until the date of payment.
Pay Mr B a total of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused him.
This should be paid within  28 days of us telling them that Mr B has accepted  my final
decision. If U K Insurance Limited  pay later than this they must  also pay interest  on that
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814345