K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund a cash machine withdrawal that she says 
she neither made nor authorised. 
background
Ms P was in a pub in central London. She made  a purchase using her bank card. A few 
minutes later a £500 cash machine  withdrawal  was made with the same  card a short 
distance away, following  a balance enquiry. About  an hour-and-a-half after that Ms P made 
another purchase at the same pub. Later that night she checked her account  using internet 
banking and then contacted Lloyds  to say that she didnt  recognise and wasnt  responsible 
for the cash machine withdrawal. 
Ms P initially said that her card had been  in her possession all evening. She later corrected 
herself and explained that she had mislaid her purse  but found it on the floor of the pub after 
about 10 minutes. 
Ms P had used the banks mobile app to log onto her account immediately after the cash  
machine withdrawal. When she was asked  about  this, she said she was about to stop the 
card, but then found her purse and didnt  need  to; she didnt check  her account at that point. 
Lloyds concluded  that Ms P had been  responsible for the cash machine withdrawal and 
didnt agree to refund  it. Ms P referred the case to this service, but our investigator  broadly 
agreed with the bank.  Ms P asked that an ombudsman review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached a very similar  
conclusion to that of the investigator. 
There have been  some inconsistencies in Ms Ps account of events. Ill return to them,  but 
first Ill consider what Ms P now says happened   that her card went missing for a short  
while and that she then found it on the floor of the pub. 
The banks records show that the genuine card was used to make the withdrawal. That is of 
course what Ms P says as well  since she says her card went  missing. 
Its possible that someone could have watched Ms P entering her PIN to make a purchase, 
taken her card without her noticing and used it very quickly  at a nearby cash  machine. That 
can happen. Its also possible that she dropped her card or purse  and then found it a few 
minutes later. Again, thats quite possible. But Ms P has suggested here that both of those 
things happened. That means  that, having  seen Ms Ps PIN and taken  her card and used it 
successfully to withdraw cash,  a thief then returned to the pub and either abandoned  the 
card or tried to return it to Ms P without her noticing.  In my view, thats most unlikely; a thief 
might have abandoned the card or kept it with a view to making further withdrawals  or 
payments later  but I doubt they would return to the place where they took it. 
I turn then to the inconsistencies  in Ms Ps version  of events. Ms P sais initially that the card 
was with her all the time, in her trouser pocket.  She then said shed lost it for a short period 
and that she found it in her purse  on the floor. That was obviously quite  important, so it 
seems odd that she didnt  mention it at the outset. The loss of the card was sufficiently 
Ref: DRN20381292concerning to her that she felt the need to try to report it, but didnt then mention  that to 
Lloyds a few hours  later.  
I note as well that Ms P says she didnt check her account at that point, since  she found her 
card. But she did check her account a few hours later  which led to her reporting the 
withdrawal to Lloyds.  
For these reasons, I dont  believe that Ms Ps recollection of events is accurate. I think its 
more likely than not that she made the withdrawal  or allowed someone else to do so. It 
follows that it wouldnt be fair to require Lloyds  to refund it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything further to resolve 
Ms Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Ms P to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2019..
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2038129