K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H bought the policy in connection  with a credit card that he took out some  time between
1996 and 2000. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account  at 
the same  time as Mr H applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr H applied for his card some time between 1996 and 2000 and its possible that he
bought PPI at the same  time. But Lloyds doesnt  know for sure if this is the case. Ive
not seen anything to suggest  the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think its most
likely Mr H bought the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit  card.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr H aware  the PPI was optional and he chose  to
take it. I say this because  from what we know  about  Lloyds sales processes between 
1996 and 2000, Mr R wouldve had to actively select the PPI on his credit  card 
application form. I accept  it is possible PPI wasnt discussed, but it is equally likely 
that it was  although I can understand why Mr H may no longer  remember this.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr H, but it doesnt look as if
it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness. But the policy  wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Hs employer 
benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. So I still think  the policy  wouldve been 
useful to Mr H if he couldnt  work.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr H would have been affected by any of the main
things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it.
Ref: DRN21878072my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2187807