K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Allianz  Insurance Plc has refused to settle a claim for storm damage  
under his property  insurance policy for his buy to let property.
background
Mr M made a claim to Allianz for storm damage. He said that on 2 January 2018 a storm 
caused pebble-dashing to fall off the front of his property and it damaged his tenants car. He 
also said because of the heavy rain, water  had got in through  the roof of his property  and 
damaged a ceiling.
He said he was kept waiting for weeks because hed been  referred  to the wrong department. 
Allianz sent a contractor  to assess the damage. It said the damage to the pebble  dashing 
had happened  as a result of poor workmanship. It also said it couldnt  see any damage to 
the ceiling. It told Mr Ms tenant the outcome of the claim.
Mr M complained to Allianz. He didnt think his claim should  have  been  declined. He was 
also unhappy that it had discussed the outcome of the claim with his tenant.
Allianz didnt change its decision to decline the claim. But it said if Mr M sent it a report which 
contradicted its contractors findings,  it would reconsider  the claim.  It apologised for the fact 
that its contractor had discussed the claim outcome with his tenant  and offered him £100 
compensation for that.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think  Allianz had treated 
him unfairly.  She thought  the storm was a contributing factor but the primary cause of the 
damage to the pebble  dashing was lack of bonding. She said Mr M should  provide evidence 
of damage to the ceiling  if he wanted  Allianz to reconsider that part of his claim.
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed  for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm  conditions the main  cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Its not in dispute  that there  were  storm conditions at the relevant time. I can see from the 
weather report that there was a wind storm in the area where the property  is.
Regarding the second question I accept that storm force winds can strip pebble  dashing off a 
wall and this sort of damage is associated with a storm. 
Ref: DRN29525822In relation to the main cause of the damage, the only professional  opinion  I have  is from the 
contractor sent by Allianz. He noted  that the pebble  dash render wasnt fitted  and bonding to 
the wall correctly. He thought it had collapsed due to its weakened state . 
Based upon this evidence  Im satisfied that the answer to question  three  is no and that the 
storm wasnt the main cause of damage to Mr Ms property. That means I dont think  Allianz 
acted unfairly in declining Mr Ms claim for storm damage to the pebble  dashing.
I agree  with our investigator that Mr M should  provide evidence of damage  to his ceiling if he 
wishes Allianz to reconsider that part of his claim.  I note however that Allianzs  contractor 
reported that the flat roof to the rear of the property was very old with evidence  of multiple 
repairs due to wear and tear.
I agree  that it was unprofessional of Allianzs  contractor to tell Mr Ms tenant  what  the 
outcome of his claim was and that it was a breach of Mr Ms privacy.  But Im satisfied that 
the sum of £100 offered by Allianz  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to 
compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset caused to him by this.
I appreciate that Mr M thinks  there were delays  on handling  his claim and it wasnt  always 
clear who was dealing  with it. Having looked at a time line of the clam, I dont think there 
were any unreasonable  delays. There  were  various different parties involved in the claim but 
I havent seen  any evidence of poor liaison or communication  between them, so I dont think  
this would have  been likely to have adversely affected Mr M.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2952582