K822xComplaint
Mr Gs representative has complained on his behalf  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
(RSA) have unfairly increased the cost of Mr Gs pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr G took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr G. Particularly  as it 
was marketed as a lifetime policy and its likely Mr G would  have intended to keep it for the 
whole of his pets  life. They have accepted the information they gave Mr G about the policy  
wasnt as clear as it should have been. And RSA have offered to pay him £350 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes been  caused as a result of this, including  an 
amount recognising Mr Gs complaint could also have been handled better  by them.  I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances of Mr Gs complaint.
Mr Gs representative has told us he is not happy  with the offer RSA have made.
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power  to tell a business what their
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how they 
should operate  and thats  not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Gs policy is too high, 
he should have  been charged less for the policy or that he should  be charged less in the 
future.
While Mr Gs premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to
suggest RSA have treated him differently to how they would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say RSA have singled him out and treated him 
unfairly compared to their other customers or that RSA needs to offer him cover for a lower  
premium going forwards.  
I understand this will cause Mr G a lot of disappointment. I recognise that the situation has 
caused significant upset. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr G the information he needed  to understand he
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost
out.
Ref: DRN28224822Mr Gs representative says Mr G wouldnt have taken the lifetime policy if hed known the 
premiums could increase  so significantly. But its hard to know  what he would have done 
back in 2009.  
Of course,  with the benefit of hindsight we now know he may have been better off not taking 
a policy  at all - or taking  an annual  policy  that wouldnt  cover ongoing conditions. And I 
accept its possible he may have chosen one of these options if RSA had given him better  
information.
But I cant say its more  likely than not he wouldnt have taken the lifetime policy  even if RSA
had made  it clear the premiums could increase significantly. While Mr G didnt need to make
a huge amount of claims and it doesnt look like his pet had any ongoing conditions,  he
wouldnt have known  this when taking out the policy. The nature of insurance is to protect
against what might happen in the unknown future.
Mr G chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his pet. And, as
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of
cover it provided. So I think its just as likely that Mr G would have still taken the policy out
even if hed known  the premium could  increase significantly in the future and understood that 
it may become too expensive or not cost effective to continue with the cover  at some point. 
I appreciate Mr Gs representative was able to get a quote for a new policy online that was 
cheaper than the premium Mr G is paying for his existing  policy.  But thats  not surprising. 
Any new policy  wont  provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions or anything linked 
to any claims  made. And therell have been an exclusion  period at the start, which would  
limit the risk RSA would be taking by providing  Mr G with a new policy.  Its also possible 
there would have been a new policy discount  by way of an incentive to consumers to take 
the policy out  something many insurers commonly do. 
When a policy has been active  for several  years, the risk presented  to the insurer  is greater 
than a new policy  especially  if the pet is fairly  old. RSA will factor in the possibility a pet 
may have  visited a vet since the policy started, even without a claim being made. Any 
subsequent claim  for anything related  to this wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it 
would be by Mr Gs existing policy. The premium  will reflect  this additional risk to them. We 
wont get involved with how they calculate this risk as this would be telling  them how operate  
 and as I said previously thats  not my role. 
If Mr Gs representative is comfortable  that Mr Gs pet has no ongoing conditions and will be 
adequately covered by a new policy, there is nothing stopping  him taking advantage of the 
quote for a lower  price. 
I know Mr Gs representative thinks RSA have  been taking advantage of Mr G. But as I 
explained earlier I havent seen any evidence to suggest RSA have treated him differently to 
how they would have treated any other  policyholder. I appreciate that Mr G is in a very 
vulnerable position but I dont think RSA have done  anything to single him out and take 
advantage of this. 
The compensation RSA have offered recognises that better information  about the longer-
term costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the trouble and upset  Mr G has 
experienced. It also recognises  that some shortcomings in their complaint handling have 
caused Mr G additional  upset. Having considered everything,  I think  this award fairly 
compensates Mr G for the reasons explained above.
Ref: DRN28224823My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr G £350  compensation is fair
and reasonable.  I dont  require them to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr Gs 
representative to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2020
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2822482