K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Mr G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr G aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  
adding it to his card. Mr G has told us that he didnt ask for the policy or chose to have it. But 
Barclays has sent us a copy of Mr Gs credit card application form. The form has a separate  
section for PPI where the policy has been selected.  Mr G has also signed the form in 
agreement with the selections made on it. So I think Barclays made  it clear  that Mr G didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why Mr G 
may not remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI knowing  the other means he had of making  his 
repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mr Gs sick pay, and would have allowed him to keep his savings in place to be 
used towards other essential expenses he may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN20879012my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2087901