K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains TSB Bank plc has registered  a default on his credit file unfairly.
background
Mr M had a current account with TSB and moved  to another  bank in July 2016 using the 
switch service.
In August  2016  TSB wrote to Mr M to say that a payment of just over £20 had gone out 
during the switch and that his account  had gone  overdrawn  as a result. TSB asked Mr M to 
clear the overdraft  giving details of how he should make the payment  saying that it 
wouldnt be able to close his account until he had done so. Mr M says he tried to clear the 
overdraft, but his payment bounced back.  He says he phoned TSB several times  about this 
and was either cut off or told that his account  was closed and to ignore the letter. So he did.
Six months  later Mr M says he discovered TSB had registered late payment markers on his 
credit file. He complained  to TSB asking for the late markers to be removed.
TSB investigated Mr Ms complaint and said that it had written  to him several times to say 
that his account  was overdrawn  in August, September and October 2016  and had 
registered late payment  markers on his credit file as it hadnt heard back  from him. TSB said 
that it wasnt, therefore, responsible for the payment being late, so it wouldnt  be right to 
amend his credit file. It did, however, clear his overdraft as a goodwill gesture.
Mr M complained to TSB again in 2019  saying that his credit  file now showed a default.  He 
said this was unfair as hed been  told that his account was closed and to ignore the letter  
hed been sent about his account being overdrawn.  TSB didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint. 
TSB agreed,  however,  to give Mr M the benefit of the doubt that hed been told to ignore the 
letter hed been sent about  his account  being  overdrawn and offered to pay him £25 for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. Mr M still wasnt  happy and so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into this complaint and didnt think TSB had done  anything 
wrong. Mr M disagreed  with our investigator  and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
He said TSB should remove the default on his credit file. So Ive considered his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has complained that TSB has registered a default on his credit file. Ive seen a copy  of 
his credit file and TSB hasnt registered  a default. TSB has registered late payments only. 
Im going  to decide whether TSB registered those late payments fairly or not.
Ive seen a copy  of the letter TSB sent Mr M letting him know that his account had gone 
overdrawn and that hed need to clear the overdraft  before it could be closed. That letter 
gave Mr M instructions to follow to make the payment. Had Mr M followed those instructions, 
his overdraft would have been  cleared and his account would have been closed. 
Unfortunately, he didnt. Instead he tried to pay money from his new account straight  into his 
old TSB account. I can understand why he did this  its the way people normally pay money 
into an account. The money, however, bounced back  or at least  thats how it appeared to 
Ref: DRN23364322Mr M  because  TSB was automatically forwarding payments into Mr Ms old account to his 
new account as part of the switching  process.  Thats why TSB had given Mr M instructions 
to follow   had he done so the payment wouldnt have been automatically  forwarded.
Mr M says he rang TSB after seeing his payment had bounced  to find out what  was going  
on. TSB accepts he rang. That was on 30 August. In other words, on the day hed tried to 
make the payment and it had bounced back. Mr M and TSB dont  agree  what was said 
during that call, and TSB says it no longer has a recording of that call (just a note). Mr M 
says he called TSB two more times.  TSB says it has no record of these calls.   On balance, I 
think its more likely  than not that Mr M tried to call TSB more than once about his overdraft.  
More importantly, Im satisfied that he wanted  to repay his overdraft and tried to do so.
Ive told TSB that I would have expected TSBs  staff to get to the bottom of what had gone  
wrong here.  Thats because I would have  expected  TSBs staff to work out that the payment 
had seemingly bounced  because Mr M had tried to make a payment directly  into his old 
account meaning it had been automatically forwarded onto his new account. I wouldnt have 
expected Mr M to realise the significance of the payment  methods  TSB had set out in its 
letter, or the importance of making the payment the way TSB had said. Had TSBs staff got 
to the bottom  of what had gone wrong,  as I would have expected  them to, Im satisfied Mr M 
would have tried again  to repay the overdraft and would have succeeded in doing so. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  its fair that TSB wont remove the adverse information on Mr Ms 
credit file. So Im going to tell TSB to remove it.
TSB has already written off Mr Ms overdraft and offered to pay him £25 in compensation. I 
dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to do more  than this as that seems  a fair and 
reasonable outcome. So Im not going  to ask TSB to pay any additional compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require TSB Bank  plc to remove the late payment markers  it has 
registered on Mr Ms credit file and pay him the £25 compensation it has offered if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr M to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Nicolas Atkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2336432