K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about poor service they received from Qmetric Group Limited 
(Qmetric) when claiming for damage  to their home, under their building  insurance policy.
background 
Mr and Mrs B originally  complained that the repairs to their home from an escape of water  
hadnt been fully completed by Qmetric. The repairs are now complete. Mr and Mrs B said 
the service they received was extremely poor causing them  huge  stress and ill health.
After a surveyor attended Mr and Mrs Bs home to inspect the damage,  Mrs B said some 
damage hadnt been considered and a further  appointment  was made.  There  was some  
dispute about the schedule of works and following initial repairs Mr and Mrs B complained  
about work that was unfinished  and the cash settlement for their contents.
Qmetric said it has now completed work that puts Mr and Mrs Bs home  beyond  the 
condition it was in before their claim.  It said it needed to verify  all parts  of Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim to be sure that damage was covered by their policy and this took some time.
The investigator recommended  that Qmetric pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for its 
poor service. She said there were some  avoidable  delays and the overall time taken to settle 
the claim exceeded what would've  been  expected. She said Mrs B had family responsibilities 
and shouldnt have  had to chase the business  for progress.
Qmetric agreed to pay £150  compensation. But Mrs B said the stress of getting  their home 
repaired and the effect on their health  hadnt been understood. She said the work took too 
long and it took even longer for snagging  issues to be fixed. She has young children and 
said their home was left in a hazardous state,  causing injuries  and illness. She said 
problems with the claim had led to her and her husbands separation. 
The investigator said there would need to be a direct  link between the actions of the 
business and the points  Mrs B had raised, but there was no evidence  that Mrs Bs problems 
were due to errors made by the business, and not other factors. 
Mrs B disagreed and requested an ombudsman review their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at the service provided to Mr and Mrs B by Qmetric to see if it has treated 
them fairly in its handling  of their claim.  Im pleased that Qmetric has now completed all of 
the repairs involved in Mr and Mrs Bs claim and acknowledged that the service it provided 
could have been better.  
Its worth  noting that claims  involving an escape of water generally take several  months to be 
resolved, and with that goes some stress and inconvenience to the unfortunate consumer. 
An insurers  role is to ensure that this isnt increased  by its own actions or inactions, so as to 
avoid unnecessary upset to its customers.  
Ref: DRN20263592I can see there was a dispute  between the parties  as to the level of work required and other 
aspects of the claim. Qmetrics surveyor wasnt convinced  that the escape of water had 
affected the floorboards and didnt  think all of the work requested by Mrs B involved damage 
from the escape of water.  All of this took time to resolve and overall  the claim took longer 
than it should  have, and Mrs B had to do some chasing to get repair work moving and had to 
clarify incorrect information that had been provided to her.
I was sorry to learn about the effect on Mr and Mrs Bs family from the way the claim was 
handled. I agree with the investigator that for us to consider compensation for injury, ill 
health, and relationship break-ups would require evidence from Mr and Mrs B to indicate a 
link to the poor service  from Qmetric. I havent  seen anything about this from Mr and Mrs B 
and so I think the compensation of £150 recommended  by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their claim.
Should Mr and Mrs B reject this final decision it will be of no legal effect and they can pursue 
their complaint by other means if they wish.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Qmetric Group Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 compensation for the poor service  they 
received.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2026359