K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited (Sun Life) 
misled him regarding the tax treatment of his pension lump sum payments causing him 
financial loss. He also complains that Sun Life sent him another customers information.
background 
The background to this case is set out in the attached provisional decision. In that decision, I 
said I was minded to uphold  the complaint on the basis  that Mr O had been misled about the 
amount of tax he would pay on his lump sum withdrawal and that if hed been properly 
informed, he would  have  waited to take those pension benefits.
I concluded that Sun Life should compensate Mr O for the difference in tax he paid on the 
lump sum above the 20% tax rate he would likely have  paid in retirement  with the addition 
of simple interest at 8% pa from the date that he paid his tax bill to the date of settlement.
Similarly, in respect of the loss of his personal  allowance, I said that Sun Life should  
compensate Mr O for any additional  tax hes paid as a result  of that  again with the addition  
of interest.  
Mr O agreed with my provisional  decision and made  no further representations. Sun Life 
disagreed, however. It said that:
Mr O had been told early on in the conversation  that the Careline agent could not 
give tax advice. This was because its agent was not qualified  to give tax advice and 
Sun Life was not regulated to give tax advice.
To ensure that there were no misunderstanding Sun Life always  sent customers the 
Money Advice Service Leaflet. The FCA requires businesses  such  as Sun Life to 
send this information to make  certain that all customers receive a clear  and 
consistent message  about the decisions they are making.  They have the time to 
understand and reflect  on the choices available to them  and understand the impact  
that these decision  will have on them going  forwards.
Stipulating that businesses  send this information  means that any misunderstandings  
that may occur between  companies and customers will become apparent. So there 
was certainty that customers  will have always received the correct  information 
whatever the circumstances.  Sun Life said this was why it goes  to such  lengths  
asking clients to complete its questionnaire and recommending  that they seek 
professional financial  advice.
Sun Life felt it was reasonable to expect  a client to read the information that it was 
obligated to send. Sun life said had Mr O done  so it would have led him to conclude 
that it was likely that his tax rate would  go up and the amount he would pay 
depended on the rate applicable to him.
It was made clear numerous  times  throughout the leaflet  that it would be classed  as 
earned income. As this was at odds with what Mr O had understood from the phone  
call this would, or should, have given  him cause  to question  it.
Ref: DRN24929422While  Sun Life accepts the verbal  information that it gave to Mr O in the later calls 
was lacking, the original call correctly informed him that the lump sum would be taxed 
as earned income. Therefore it is unfair to assume he would have  received  further  
incorrect information had he called at this point.
What it knew for certain was that Mr O was in possession  of the correct written 
information but didnt heed this- and proceeded with the payment.
Sun Life disagreed  with my conclusion that Mr O had already made  his decision and I 
hadnt seen anything afterwards which would reasonably  have altered that 
impression. It said that called into the question  the purpose of the FCA requirement 
for Sun Life to send  all of this information and why it was asked to direct customers  to 
the Government established Pension Wise Service. 
If there  is no expectation that customers should  have to use this information and 
instead can rely solely on a conversation with a Careline  agent who is not financially 
qualified, it becomes pointless to insist that Sun Life sends it.
It felt it was reasonable  to expect Mr O to read the information  it had provided.  As a 
result it was unable to agree with the proposed  method  of compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the representations 
received in response to my provisional decision,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
To recap, Mr O was looking to cash in two of his pension plans. He contacted Sun Life to 
ask whether he could  access  those plans as he was approaching  55 years of age. 
Sun Lifes responses to my provisional decision focus on the fact that its representative told 
Mr O that they couldnt give him any tax advice and that he received a leaflet which, if read, 
would have given  him the information he needed to be aware that the lump  sums would be 
taxed as additional income at his marginal rate.
To address the first part of this, the problem  with Sun Lifes position  is that its representative 
did give Mr O information on the tax hed pay. Whether this was technically advice  is not 
really the point  I think Mr O would justifiably have taken that information at face value and 
similarly might  justifiably have formed the impression that special rules, i.e. basic  rate tax, 
applied to small pots. 
As to the second part, whilst I agree  that theres  a very good  reason as to why the leaflet 
should be included,  I think this misses  the point. Theres an obligation on a business to 
provide that information, and its designed to give the consumer as much information as 
possible before  making important financial  decisions. But I dont  think  its fair and reasonable 
to expect a consumer to read everything theyve  been sent if they justifiably consider that 
theyve already been given the relevant information they need  as was the case  here.  And 
in the same way that a business cant simply rely on a leaflet produced  by a third party to 
provide the relevant information to a consumer, it cant rely on that alone to undo  incorrect  
information given  directly to them in a phone conversation.
Ref: DRN24929423Mr O wasnt to know whether or not the representative  he was speaking  with had sufficient 
training or knowledge to give him that information. Mr O relied  on what he had been told in 
the telephone conversation. And I dont think thats  unreasonable. He had received 
information directly from Sun Life and he would have attached credence to what he was 
being told. Whilst the letter sent by Sun Life referred  to the Money Advice Service  leaflet in 
general terms there was nothing to specifically direct Mr Os attention to the relevant 
information on taxation. Nor did it require him to confirm  that hed read the leaflet before 
proceeding. So I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Mr O to rely on 
what he had been  told by the representative,  particularly as he had specifically raised the 
issue of taxation  and his personal  circumstances. 
But even if Im wrong on that, as I said in the provisional decision,  if Mr O had read the 
leaflet, its more likely than not that hed have contacted Sun Life again   as the leaflet would 
have contradicted what hed previously been told. And my view was that it was more likely 
than not that hed be given incorrect information  again.
My position  on that hasnt  changed. Sun Life agreed  that the information in the calls after  
Mr O had taken his lump sum was incomplete. I would  go further - as I said in the 
provisional decision, my view was that they were  again misleading. Mr O was told that under 
the small pots provisions, the amount would  be taxed at 20%. So Mr O would have been in 
the same  position,  and would more likely than not have acted on the information  given  to him 
by Sun Life. And this would  have  led to the same  overall outcome.
Summary
For the reasons  given,  my position on this remains unchanged.  I think  Mr O acted upon 
incorrect information given to him by Sun Life, and my view is that he was entitled to do so in 
good faith. Furthermore, and although  I dont  think  Sun Life can reasonably rely upon  a third 
party leaflet to undo the error, even if Mr O had read it, I think its probable  that the end result 
would have been the same.
It follows therefore that Sun Life should compensate Mr O as directed in the attached  
provisional decision.
In respect of the additional tax hes paid on the lump sum, Sun Life should pay Mr O the 
difference together with interest at 8% simple per year from the date he paid that tax, until 
the date of settlement. 
With regard to the loss of his personal  allowance, Sun Life should also compensate  Mr O for 
an additional  tax hes paid as a result  of this  with the addition  of interest at 8% simple per 
year from the date that the tax was paid until the date of settlement.
 
Sun Life should also pay Mr O £200  in respect  of the trouble and upset  hes been caused, 
for the same reasons  given in the provisional  decision
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint against Sun Life Assurance Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited for the reasons outlined in my decision. It should compensate Mr O in 
the manner set out above 
Ref: DRN24929424Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN24929425Provisional decision
complaint
Mr O complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) misled him 
regarding the tax treatment of his pension  lump sum payments  causing him financial loss. He also 
complains that Sun Life sent him another customers information.
background
Mr O contacted Sun Life in August 2018 to discuss taking his two pension plans as lump sums.  Sun 
Lifes representative established that the plans had values below £10,000 and told Mr O about  the 
small pots rules.  She said the first 25 percent of the payment would  be tax free and the rest would be 
subject to tax as earned income. The representative then explained that there were two different ways  
to take the lump sums. She said that for one of those options  the taxable  portion of the payments 
would be taxed at basic rate.
Sun Life sent Mr O a questionnaire  and a retirement pack containing some other documents. Mr O 
completed the questionnaire and decided to take the lump  sum payments under the small  pots rules. 
He was sent an application  form which he completed and returned. Sun Life then sent Mr O payment 
of the proceeds of his two plans by way of a cheque. Unfortunately Sun Life mistakenly enclosed 
another customers post with the cheque.  After Mr O had cashed in his two plans he contacted Sun 
Life on two occasions. On both occasions he was told, in effect, by Sun Life that the payments were  
taxable at basic rate (after the first 25 percent which was tax free). On the second occasion  Mr O 
asked Sun Life to confirm this in writing which  it did.
Mr O then became  aware that, after the first 25 percent, the rest of his payments were  taxable as 
income, so for him that meant  at 40 percent. Also, as Mr O earned over £100,000 payment of those 
sums reduced his personal  allowance, which in turn increased his basic rate tax liability.  He 
complained to Sun Life that it had misled him as to the tax he would pay on the proceeds of his plans.
Sun Life upheld Mr Os complaint in part. It didnt  agree that Mr O had been misled during the first 
call. It noted its representative had said she was unable  to provide Mr O with a personal tax 
calculation. It also pointed out that the documents  subsequently provided  to   Mr O had explained the 
tax position correctly.
Sun Life accepted it should have given Mr O a fuller explanation during the second and third calls.  It 
accepted it had omitted to explain to Mr O that further tax might be payable depending  on his 
personal circumstances. But as these calls occurred  after the cheque had been issued, it felt they 
hadnt influenced his decision to cash in the plans as lump sum payments.
Sun Life apologised for sending Mr O another customers post. It said this was caused by a manual 
error and it was an isolated incident. Sun Life said this has been fed back to the relevant team  and its 
Data Protection  Officer had been informed  of the breach.
Mr O disagreed with Sun Lifes conclusions and referred his complaint to our Service.  Our adjudicator  
considered the complaint  and thought it should  be upheld. He disagreed with Sun Life in relation  to 
the first call. He thought  Mr O had been led to believe  that the payments would  be taxed at basic rate. 
But as Sun Life had then issued documents which he felt explained the position  correctly he didnt 
think Sun Life should have to compensate Mr O for the additional tax liability.
The adjudicator didnt think the later calls had impacted  Mr Os decision because they occurred after 
he had cashed in the plans.
Ref: DRN24929426The adjudicator was satisfied that the data breach was an isolated  incident  and amounted to an 
accidental disclosure  of data. So he didnt think we needed to refer it to the Information  
Commissioners Office. But he said it was of course open to Mr O to do so if he wished. He felt that Mr 
O had been caused trouble  and upset by Sun Lifes errors and he recommended Sun Life should  pay 
Mr O £300  in compensation.
Sun Life accepted the adjudicators view but Mr O disagreed. He still felt Sun Life should  compensate 
him for his tax liability. He pointed out that Sun Life had volunteered the information  relating to small 
pots and had told him that they would be taxed at basic rate. 
Mr O said he had made his decision based on the initial call. He felt he had been entitled to rely on 
what he was told. Mr O said if he had contacted Sun Life again,  before taking his retirement benefits, 
he probably  would have been misled again. He pointed out Sun Life had recognised it had a training  
need in this respect. So he didnt feel the actual order of events should make a difference  to the 
outcome.
As the complaint could not be resolved it was referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O was looking to cash in two of his pension plans.  He contacted  Sun Life to ask whether  he could 
access those plans as he was approaching 55 years of age.
August 2018  phone  call
Mr O indicated  he was looking to take the money from the plans as a lump sum.  Sun Lifes 
representative initially  informed him correctly that at 55 he could take 25 percent  of the proceeds tax 
free and the rest would be taxed as earned income.
She then went  on to explain  that as the amounts involved were  less than £10,000 he could take them  
under the small pots rules. She said there were two different ways  of taking the proceeds and carried  
out a quick calculation to show Mr O what he would receive under  each option.
The representative explained that if Mr O chose option A under the small pots rules  he could take 25 
percent of the lump  sum tax free and the remainder would be subject to basic rate tax. Mr O queried 
this and said Even  though I am paying  40 percent tax? The representation said yes. She also said 
...again we dont go into personal  taxation...  The representatives calculation showed  Mr O would get 
slightly less under option  B.
The representative was correct that under the small pots rules  tax would be deducted from the 
payment at basic rate. But what  wasnt made clear  to Mr O was that he would still be liable for any 
additional tax payable because the payment would  be treated as earned income. Mr O specifically 
queried this so I think it should have been addressed  by the representative.
I dont think the difference between tax being deducted at source  and the tax ultimately  payable on 
the proceeds was made sufficiently clear to Mr O. So, I can see why Mr O was left thinking  at the end 
of that conversation that he would  only have  to pay basic rate tax if he took the payments under the 
small pots rules  (option A as described by the representative). 
After that telephone call Sun Life sent Mr O a retirement pack  containing a Money  Advice Service 
leaflet and other  information.
The Money  Advice Service leaflet talked about the different ways of taking the pension benefits. It 
looked at taking  the benefit as one lump sum and under  the title Things to think about it said:
Ref: DRN24929427This option won't provide a regular income  for you - or for your spouse,  civil partner or any dependant  
after you die. Get guidance  from Pension Wise and consider taking financial advice before you 
commit.
Whatever is left after you take your tax-free cash is taxable, so there's a strong chance your
tax rate would  go up when the money is added to your other income.
If you choose this option you can't change your mind - so you need to be certain  that it's right for you. 
For many people  it will be more  tax efficient to consider one or more of the other  options.
Under the title Tax you will pay it said:
Normally the first 25% (a quarter) will be tax-free and the rest will be treated as taxable income.  
(Although note that some  older policies may allow you to take a higher amount tax free  check  with 
your policy provider)  How much tax you will pay depends on your total income and the Income Tax 
rate that applies to you.
There is a high risk that your tax rate will go up with this option as your total income for the year will 
be increased
But I think Mr O relied on what he had been  told in the telephone conversation  with Sun Lifes 
representative. Whilst the letter  sent by Sun Life referred to the Money  Advice Service leaflet in 
general terms there was nothing to specifically  direct Mr Os attention to the relevant information  on 
taxation. So I dont think it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Mr O to rely on what  he had 
been told by the representative, particularly as he had specifically raised the issue of taxation and his 
personal circumstances.
Mr O filled in a questionnaire sent to him by Sun Life. At question 11 it said:
You will pay tax on some  of your pension  pot when you take it. Do you understand how this
will affect your individual  circumstances?
The possible  responses were as follows:
Yes If yes' please go to the next question.
No When you take your pension pot up to 25% of the pot will be tax free and the rest will be taxed as 
income. If you decide to cash  in the whole pot you could  enter a higher rate tax band.  Go to the HM 
Revenue & Customs tax calculator at http://tools.hmrc.gov.uk/hmrctaxcalculator to see how much tax 
we will need to deduct."  
Mr O ticked  the yes box indicating  he understood how this would  affect his circumstances. I think he 
probably ticked this box because he thought the way his money would be taxed had been explained 
to him by Sun Lifes representative. So, I think its probable that, when  answering yes  to the 
question, Mr O was still relying  on what hed been told by the representative.
Mr O completed the questionnaire, signed it and returned it to Sun Life.
Sun Life then sent Mr O a letter on 16 August 2018.
It set out the options open to him and talked  about  the tax payable. It said:
If I take my pension pot as cash, how much tax will I have to pay?
Option A - If you have  a pension  pot of £10,000 or less and have not already taken  three  pension 
pots of £10,000 or less (either with us or with other  providers) we can pay 25% of the value tax free, 
the rest will be taxed as income  using the basic rale of 20%.
Ref: DRN24929428Option B - If you have  a pension  pot of more than £10,000 or you have already taken  three other 
pension pots each with values of £10,000 or less (either with us or with other providers) we can pay 
25% of the value tax free but the rest will be taxed using  an emergency tax code.  In addition  if you 
pay into a defined contribution pension  the amount you can get tax relief on will be limited in future to 
a maximum of £4,000 annually.
But Mr O would only have  been concerned  with option A. And this in fact simply reiterated what hed 
been told by the representative.
I think  Sun Life did provide  Mr O with some written information which explained the tax position 
correctly. But I dont  think  that information was sufficiently well highlighted or sufficiently explicit  so as 
to correct the incorrect impression Mr O had previously been given. I think Mr O had already made his 
decision based on what he was told by the representative,  and I dont think anything  he was provided 
with afterwards would reasonably have altered that impression. Given  the circumstances, I dont 
consider it was unreasonable for Mr O to rely on what he had been told in the telephone conversation 
with Sun Lifes representative.
I also take into account  that if, having read that information, Mr O had once again  been unclear on the 
tax position he would have  in all likelihood contacted Sun Life again  to find out what  the position was. 
But I think it likely on balance  that if Mr O had contacted Sun Life again, he would  have been provided 
with the same incorrect information. And Ill explain why I think this.
Phone calls after the plans had been cashed  in
Sun Life has agreed that the information in relation to taxation of the payments given to Mr O in those  
phone calls was incomplete. Having carefully listened  to the phone calls I consider the information 
given to Mr O was misleading because it gave the impression he would  only pay basic  rate tax. I also 
note the business then wrote to Mr O confirming  what it had said in the phone  calls. So I think  it is 
likely on balance that Mr O would have received incorrect information if he had contacted Sun Life 
again.
What would  have happened  if Sun Life had given Mr O the correct information?
Having concluded  that an error  was made by Sun Life, which Mr O acted  upon in good faith, I have to 
consider what  would  have happened in all likelihood if the error hadnt occurred.  
Mr O has said that, if he had known the tax implications, there  is no way he would have taken the 
money. He has also said he may have opted for taking a small income from the funds  instead.
The evidence  doesnt support the position that Mr O needed the lump  sum at that time. And so, given 
the tax implications, I think it likely on balance  that Mr O would have taken  the lump  sum or an 
income, at a later date, most likely  when he retired. Mr O has indicated  his projected retirement  
income would put him in the basic tax bracket.  So he still wouldve had to pay tax on these monies  but 
at a lower rate.
I consider the businesss error has caused  Mr O financial loss which is the difference in the tax he 
paid on those  monies and the 20 percent tax he is likely to have paid on this sum at retirement. So 
Sun Life should pay Mr O the difference  together with interest at 8% simple per year from the date he 
paid that tax, until the date of settlement.
Loss of personal  allowance
Ref: DRN24929429I have listened to the first phone call carefully  and I dont consider Mr O made any specific reference 
to the level of his income, namely that it was close to £100,000.  So I dont think there was anything to 
prompt the representative  to warn him that additional income could mean the loss of his personal 
allowance. However as I have  concluded that Mr O wouldnt have cashed in his plans until retirement  
it follows he also wouldnt  have lost an element of his personal allowance. Therefore, Sun Life should  
also compensate Mr O for any additional tax hes paid as a result of the loss of his personal allowance  
 with the addition of interest at 8% simple per year from the date that the tax was paid until the date 
of settlement.
Disclosure of other customers information
When Mr O received the cheque  for the proceeds of his plans, another  customers letter was also 
enclosed. Mr O then understandably became concerned  about  the safety of his own information. Sun 
Life has explained that this was a manual error  and an isolated  incident. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that isnt the case. I also note Sun Lifes representative checked that all the correspondence 
issued to Mr O had been  received by him to allay his concerns that his information  might have been 
disclosed to a third party.
Sun Life apologised to Mr O at an early  stage  and reported the breach  to its data protection  officer. 
However, it is of course open to Mr O to refer this matter  to the Information Commissioner should  he 
wish to do so.
Trouble and upset
I do think that Mr O has been caused trouble and upset by the misleading and incomplete information 
he was given  in the phone calls to Sun Life. It was understandably distressing for him to discover  in 
correspondence following the initial phone call that he owed more tax than he had been expecting. I 
think this was compounded  by the fact Sun Life continued to give him incorrect information after he 
had cashed in the plans.
I also think  Mr O was caused trouble and upset by receiving somebody elses post for the reasons  I 
have already outlined above. Overall I think the sum of £200 is fair and reasonable for the trouble and 
upset caused.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Os complaint against  Sun Life Assurance  Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited for the reasons outlined  in my decision. Sun Life should  pay Mr O the 
difference in taxation plus interest  as outlined above. It should also pay Mr O £200 for the trouble and 
upset it caused him.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2492942