K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) stopped  his monthly  income 
payment from his pension  without reason.  He wants it to pay further  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this has caused  him.  
background
Mr S held an Executive  Pension Plan which, on approaching retirement, he transferred to a 
pension plan with Aviva. In April 2019 he received his first monthly income payment. 
However, some residual funds  held back to cover any fees due  were subsequently 
transferred to his plan and during the process of crystallising these funds the adviser  
confirmed on the application that no further income  was required. But this instruction 
superseded the existing arrangement and Mr Ss income payments were stopped. 
Mr S contacted Aviva to ask why his May 2019  payment hadnt been made. Aviva explained 
what had happened  and discussed the options available to make up the missed  payment. 
Mr S was unhappy with the alternatives  and asked Aviva to speak with his adviser. Aviva 
subsequently agreed to make an ad-hoc payment (known as a pre-fund) to Mr S and then to 
resume his normal income payments from June 2019. 
But Aviva also contacted Mr S and said that his adviser hadnt accepted this solution,  so 
Mr S complained to his adviser. The adviser contacted Aviva to express its concern over 
what had happened  and asked for the matter to be resolved. The one off payment  was 
received by Mr S on 28 May 2019.  
Aviva then provided its final response to Mr Ss complaint.  It confirmed that it hadnt made an 
error regarding the cessation of his income, because this occurred after Mr Ss adviser 
crystallised the remainder  of his pension and indicated no further income was required. But it 
accepted that it had provided some incorrect information to Mr S and his adviser and paid 
Mr S £100  for any inconvenience this may have caused.
But Mr S wasnt  happy  with this outcome and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He said that Aviva wasnt  at fault for the income  
payment being  stopped. He said that Aviva had made some errors regarding information  it 
provided but he thought the £100 compensation it paid was adequate. 
Mr S didnt agree, he didnt think the compensation hed been  paid covered  the amount of 
inconvenience he suffered or the costs  hed incurred in making his complaint.  He asked for 
his complaint to be reconsidered so its been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I was pleased  to learn that Mr S received 
his missing income payment in May 2019  and that his normal payments have now been  
correctly reinstated,  so he hasnt suffered any financial loss from his (lack of) pension  
payments. But I agree  with the investigator that Aviva has made  a fair and reasonable 
payment for compensation. I know Mr S will be disappointed with that outcome- so Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN21534602The initial crystallisation matter
Ive listened carefully  to the call Mr Ss adviser had with Aviva  on 25 April 2019 regarding  the 
crystallisation of the residual funds.  The adviser was informed that all the outstanding 
charges had been taken from the plan so the full crystallisation of funds was now possible. 
Aviva asked if the adviser wanted it to talk her through the process but the adviser declined 
the offer and confirmed that obviously its something our new business team are doing all 
the time.
Unfortunately the fact that an existing income  arrangement was in place wasnt confirmed 
during the conversation. So when Mr Ss advisory  firm keyed in the request  and indicated  
that no income was required, this overrode the existing arrangement  and caused  the income 
payments that had been set up for Mr S to be cancelled. But theres  nothing  to suggest this 
error was caused  by Aviva. It had explained  the process required to complete the 
crystallisation to the adviser,  and also offered assistance in completing the request. So I 
cant safely say Aviva did anything wrong  there and I dont think it was responsible  for the 
payments being  stopped. 
Mr S says his adviser received an email  in which Aviva accepted responsibility for the 
mistake. He said because  of the numerous problems hed experienced previously with 
Avivas new platform, he was inclined to believe the adviser. But Ive seen the email which 
said I have listened to the calls and as you were given the incorrect  information on your call 
with us this morning, we have received agreement to pre-fund in this instance. So I dont 
think this was an admission that Aviva  had caused the income  to be stopped, simply an 
acceptance that it had subsequently  provided incorrect information  about what  had 
happened  which Ive covered below. 
So, based  on the evidence Ive seen,  it wouldnt  be fair for me to conclude  that Aviva  did 
anything wrong  regarding the income payments. I know Mr S has suggested the adviser 
might have been responsible for some  of the errors  that happened here. If Mr S believes that 
to be the case  he should complain to the adviser  in the first place, and if he remains 
unhappy with its response he can then bring his complaint  to us.
The subsequent errors
As Ive already  said, Aviva didnt complete the crystallisation request so it didnt make  an 
error there. But having been advised of the problem   which  meant that through  no fault of 
his own Mr S didnt receive  his May income  payment on time, I would have expected Aviva 
to act positively  and consider alternative ways  to pay Mr S. I think Aviva  needed  to ensure 
Mr S suffered  the minimum disruption possible. 
And I think Aviva did try to resolve the matter because it discussed  with him two alternatives 
that would  allow the payment to be made that month  albeit with some delay. It also 
communicated a number  of times with the adviser to try to decide the best way to make a 
payment. 
However, I have seen that Aviva made two errors  while  it was trying to resolve the situation. 
Firstly  following the crystallisation  Aviva incorrectly told Mr Ss adviser that its process  
shouldnt have affected the income payments. I think  this information would have caused 
Mr S some distress as it would have suggested  his payment shouldnt have been stopped 
and added to his concern that a third party could control whether or not he received each 
monthly payment.  Although I have  taken into account that this information was provided after 
Ref: DRN21534603the crystallisation application  had already been  made by the adviser- so it wouldnt have 
affected what happened there.
Aviva also contacted Mr S to explain that the adviser didnt accept its solution to make  a one 
off payment  to cover the regular  one that was missed. I think  there  was genuine  confusion  
here as Mr S had previously rejected Avivas suggestions on how to make  the payment to 
him. He asked Aviva to speak to his adviser  to find a solution. However, Aviva and the 
adviser agreed that one of the solutions was too complex and might later cause some  issues 
which I think wasnt then clearly communicated  to Mr S. Ive listened to all of the telephone 
conversations from that time, and Mr S clearly stated that he simply didnt understand  the 
solutions Aviva was suggesting. 
In the circumstances I can understand Mr Ss and, indeed  the advisers frustration, as this 
would have added to the overall confusion and Mr Ss annoyance at not receiving his 
payment.  But Aviva  acknowledged  both mistakes and offered £100  in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. I can see that the errors had some  impact on Mr S and 
his relationship with Aviva  and his adviser  and theres no dispute that Aviva made the errors. 
So primarily what I need to decide is if the compensation  thats  been  offered is enough.
Overall I think  the sum offered (and paid to Mr S) is within the range of what Id expect to see 
for errors such as this. I think its a fair and reasonable payment to resolve matters so Im not 
going to ask Aviva to do any more.
Summary
Because of a genuine error during  the process  of crystallising the remainder  of his pension  
funds, Mr Ss income payments were stopped. Following discussions between  all the parties  
involved a payment was made around two and a half weeks  later and the ongoing payment 
arrangement was reinstated form the following month. 
This delay  did have some impact on Mr S as did some of the incorrect  information  Aviva 
provided while trying to resolve matters. But in the circumstances I think  Avivas offer of 
compensation for these errors is fair and reasonable,  and Mr S has now received the 
payment he missed and subsequent monthly  payments  so he hasnt lost out on any of his 
income. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint, in as much as I think the 
payment Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited has already made is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153460