K822xcomplaint
Mrs D is complaining that she was forced into ending a conditional sale agreement  she took 
out through Santander Consumer (UK) Plc. Shes unhappy shes being pursued for the 
outstanding balance. 
background
In October  2015 Mrs D entered into a conditional sale agreement to acquire a static caravan 
on a holiday park. The parks representative (P) arranged the finance. The total cost of 
acquiring the caravan was £29,000. She paid three separate deposits totalling £3,000. 
Under the terms of the agreement with P, she was entitled to a guaranteed  income  over the 
course of the loan for the time she said she wasnt using the caravan.  This income  came  to 
£1,350 which was paid up front and used as a further deposit to the agreement. This left 
£24,650 to be paid on finance.
Mrs D got into a dispute with P about  the sale of the agreement as she says she thought  that 
she was only going to pay £27,500  for the caravan,  but later found  out that she paid £29,000  
for it. There  was also a further  dispute over payment of site fees which  Mrs D was in arrears 
on. So Mrs D ultimately contacted  Santander and she said that she wanted to terminate the 
agreement. But Santander says that she still owed around £9,000  on the agreement as it 
was ended early.
Mrs D complained to Santander  and raised the following points:
She was told the cash price  for the caravan would be around £27,500 with a deposit  of 
£4,350, but she was charged £29,000  for it. Shes unhappy that extras  were  added to the 
agreement, such  as water rates, pitch fees and other accessories to increase the cost to 
£29,000. She doesnt think P  as the credit  broker  should have done  this.
The finance agreement is only in her name, but the purchase invoice was in her and her 
husbands name. She also says credit checks were done  on both her husband and 
herself to ensure  the agreement was affordable.
There was decking attached to the caravan that she says she owns. She says it was 
provided free of charge  so it shouldnt be part of the finance agreement. But shes not 
been allowed  to collect it.
She says that as a result of having  to terminate  the agreement, shes lost out on a lot of 
income as a result.  In  particular  she says shes lost the following:
1.Shes had to cancel  four rental bookings with a loss of £1,936.47. Shes also had to pay 
cancellation charges of £120  to cancel each  booking;
2.Shes lost out on future income  which  she estimates  to be around  £10,000;  and
3.This issue  has had a detrimental impact to her credit rating.
Santander didnt  uphold her complaint. It said Mrs D signed the agreement which showed 
the cash price for the goods was £29,000. And it said it didnt have anything to show  the 
cash price wasnt that. It also said that there seems to have been an agreement between  
Mrs D and P for an extra £1,645.08 to be added to the finance  to cover the water rates and 
other accessories. It said that, if the customer and the supplier agree extras  at the point of 
sale, such as water rates and accessories, then this can be added to the amount to be 
financed. 
Ref: DRN26249412Finally, it said that only one person could take out the finance agreement   i.e. Mrs D. And it 
said that this would have been  confirmed to her when she entered  into the agreement.
The investigator said that Mrs D had had use of the caravan between  October  2015 and 
January 2017.  So she thought it was fair that Mrs D paid for the caravan during this time. So, 
she thought Santander should do the following to put things  right:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to owe;
refund  Mrs D the £4,350 she paid in deposits and pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date this was paid until the settlement is made;
remove all information about this loan from Mrs Ds credit file.
Mrs D accepted the investigators findings,  but Santander didnt agree. It said that it was 
required to undertake an assessment of Mrs Ds creditworthiness. In doing  so, it said it was 
required to take the following into account:
a)the potential  for the commitments  under the finance to adversely impact Mrs Ds financial 
situation, taking  into account the information of which it was aware at the time the 
agreement started;  and
b)Mrs Ds ability to make repayments as they fell due over the life of the agreement.
It said that any checks that it did had to be proportionate to the circumstances  of each 
application. And it thought doing  a creditworthiness check  satisfied its responsibilities  under 
industry regulations.  It said that it carried out further  checks including: fraud and identity 
checks; a credit check with Experian;  and used its own internal credit scoring metrics.
Given the checks it did, it was satisfied that Mrs D could keep up with the repayments.  So it 
said that it had no reason  to suspect that the agreement might not be suitable  for her and 
her financial  position.
Furthermore, it said that Mrs D was using the caravan for business purposes. So it said 
there should be some recognition that she had to be accountable  for deciding to voluntarily  
terminate the agreement.  It thought  that it was likely she had concluded  that her business  
venture in renting the caravan out had not worked.  It thought this meant she fell into financial  
difficulties with not being able to pay the site fees and ultimately  the normal monthly  
instalments due under the agreement.
It said that Mrs D based her assessment on whether she could afford  the finance on the 
basis that the rental income she received would cover the monthly instalments. And it said 
that this income  needed to be taken into account in assessing whether she could afford to 
repay the finance. And it didnt believe that it should  be required to consider how successful 
Mrs D's business model would be before  deciding  to offer her finance. And it didnt think  it 
should be held responsible for the failure of her business.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019 upholding this complaint. And I said the 
following:
Mrs D has raised a number of issues in respect to Ps actions after she took out the finance. 
Santander can be held responsible for Ps actions as the credit broker and certain 
representations that it made before the agreement started. But I cant look at anything P did 
after the agreement  started in respect  to its actions  as the site provider.
Ref: DRN26249413I agree  with the investigator that I think the crux of this complaint rests  with whether 
Santander should have offered Mrs D the finance.  Mrs D has also raised a number of 
queries in respect to the sale of the finance agreement. Ive taken them all into account, but I 
havent responded to each and every  point. Instead Ive focused on what  I think are the key 
issues for me to decide in this complaint. No discourtesy is meant  by this. It simply reflects  
the informal nature of this service.
did Santander adequately assess Mrs Ds creditworthiness?
There arent set checks a lender has to carry out prior to deciding whether to lend to a 
consumer or not. But any checks  it does should  be proportionate to each  case, in particular  
taking into account  the size of the loan, the monthly repayments, the customers lending 
history and what the business  already  knows about  the customer.
Mrs D would have had to repay around  £40,000  over the course of the agreement. And her 
monthly repayments were  £425.92. I think this was a quite significant commitment. 
Santander has told us that it checked Mrs Ds credit  file to assess whether she would be 
able to keep up with the finance repayments.  I dont  think this was sufficient given the size of 
the financial commitment. But, even if I thought  it was, the credit  check would have revealed 
that Mrs D already owed  a significant amount of money to other creditors at the time. And I 
think this should  have caused  Santander to question whether Mrs D could  afford to repay 
this finance given her other financial commitments. 
I would have expected Santander to have done  an income and expenditure assessment at 
this point. I think, had Santander carried out further  checks, I think this would have shown 
that she couldnt have afforded the finance based on her available income at the time.
In reviewing the bank  statements, the investigator thought  they showed  that Mrs D was 
already repaying  £423 per month towards  other loans and credit cards she already had. She 
said Mrs D was paying £825 per month for rent and had other  regular costs  of a further 
£119. So the investigator thought that Mrs Ds monthly  expenditure was around £1,367. And 
I agree  with her.
Mrs Ds was self-employed at the time but her income  at the time was inconsistent. It seems 
to me that the familys main source of income was from working tax credits, Mr Ds ill health 
retirement pension  and his disability living allowance. In total I think Mrs Ds average  monthly  
income for the three months prior to taking out the loan was around £1,400.
Santander has also fairly commented  that Mrs D intended to use income received from 
renting out the caravan  to meet the finance  repayments. I dont disagree that its not 
necessarily required to consider how successful Mrs D's business model would  be before 
deciding to offer her finance. But I would expect  it to assess what  income  Mrs D was 
expected to receive on a monthly  basis from renting out the caravan. And in particular, I 
think it needed to think how regularly Mrs D would receive this income.
Mrs D part paid for the holiday through a Guaranteed Lettings Deposit Contribution. In 
applying for this, Mrs D had to set out when she wanted to use the caravan and when it 
would be available  to rent. And she set out in this that it wouldnt be available for rent from 
the middle of June  until October. She also said it wouldnt be available  during May. So she 
would have had to repay the finance from other  means for around  half a year. She also 
Ref: DRN26249414would have had to pay other  costs relating to the caravan  e.g. site fees  during  that time. 
And, as I said, I think Santander should have had concerns about her ability  to do this. 
So I think there would have been a number of months where Mrs D would have had 
difficulties making her monthly  repayments. Taking  all this into consideration, I dont  think 
Santander would or should have lent to Mrs D if it had adequately  assessed her 
creditworthiness. 
what was included in the agreement?
Mrs D says that the decking  that was attached to the caravan was provided to her free of 
charge. She says that it didnt  form part of the finance agreement.  So she thinks that she 
should be allowed  to retain the decking. But I dont agree.  While  I dont  dispute  that P may 
have told Mrs D that there wasnt an additional  charge  for the decking,  I dont  think  there was 
a separate agreement to provide the decking.  And I think it did form part of the total contract  
to supply the caravan to Mrs D. I also note that the purchase invoice also says current used 
deck included. So I think the decking was included under the finance  agreement.  So 
Santander retained ownership of the decking  once the agreement  was terminated.
I also note Mrs D is unhappy that P included charges for water  rates,  site fees and other 
accessories on the agreement. I dont know for certain what was discussed in respect  to this. 
But Mrs D signed the agreement to confirm these  costs  were included. So I think its most  
likely that they were added after a discussion between P and Mrs D. 
putting things  right
Had Santander not lent the money to Mrs D, she wouldnt  have  had to repay  anything  under 
the agreement. However, she was able to use the caravan and received  rental  income from 
having it. So I think she should pay for the time she was able to use it. But at the same time, 
I dont think Santander  should benefit  from this. So I dont think it should charge interest or 
charges on the agreement. 
I think the fairest way to calculate what Santander can charge for fair usage is to divide the 
amount of credit (cash price of the caravan minus Mrs Ds deposit) by 84 (the term of the 
agreement). The amount of credit was £24,650, so this would give a monthly repayment of 
£293.45. Mrs D had the finance  for 15 months.  So the total Santander  can retain is 
£4,401.75 (the equivalent of 15 months use). Mrs D has paid in excess of this figure to 
Santander. So it should refund any overpayments shes made.
Mrs D paid £3,000  towards the deposit, which I think she should  get back. The investigator 
also thought that Santander should refund the £1,350 Guaranteed Lettings  Deposit  
Contribution she paid. But, she wouldnt have benefitted from this, had Santander not lent to 
her. So I dont think she should  get this back. 
Mrs D has been deprived of using the money  she overpaid. So Santander  should  also add 
8% simple  interest per year to any refund (including the deposit) from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement. Lastly, Santander  should cancel the agreement  (if it hasnt already 
done so) with nothing  further to pay. It should  also remove  any record  of the agreement   
including any adverse markers  from her credit  file.
Mrs D responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. Santander didnt respond to it. 
Ref: DRN26249415my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me with anything else I dont see any reason to come  to a 
different conclusion to the one I reached  in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc to:
1.cancel the agreement (if it hasnt  already  done so) with nothing further to pay. It should 
also remove any record of the agreement  including any adverse markers  from her 
credit file;
2.refund  the £3,000 Mrs D paid towards  the deposit*; and
3.refund  any other money Mrs D has paid in excess of £4,401.75 towards the agreement*;
* Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc should pay 8% simple interest per year on any refunded  
amounts from the date Mrs D paid them  until she gets them  back. If Santander thinks its 
required to deduct  tax from this interest, it should  provide  Mrs D with a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2624941