K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that Erudio Student  Loans Limited  has terminated her credit agreement.
background
Ms G took out student loans in 1991, 1992  and 1993. Since 1995 she has completed  a 
deferment application every year so that her loan repayments dont start. This is because 
her income has been below the threshold  for repayment.
In 2016, Ms G was moving home at around the time her latest deferment application was 
due to be submitted.  Ms G said she registered for an online account with Erudio in order  to 
update them with her new address. She also paid £500 to Erudio on the understanding  that 
this would cover her loan repayments (as she hadnt completed a deferment application) for 
a significant time. 
In August  2017,  the £500 pre-payment had been used up and the loan balance started 
falling into arrears. Erudio  sent letters to Ms G notifying her about the arrears and also 
attempted several  calls which werent  successful. Because Ms G didnt contact  Erudio or 
make any further payments, the account  was defaulted and terminated in March  2018. This 
meant the whole balance  became due and Ms G lost the opportunity  to have the loan 
balance written off  which would have happened after the loans had been outstanding  for 
25 years.  
The letters had been going to Ms Gs previous  address. The new owners of her old home 
forwarded the letters to Ms G in April 2018.  Ms G complained to Erudio about the lack of 
contact. She said she thought shed updated her address online,  and even if she hadnt 
Erudio had her email address and theyd never attempted  to contact her on that. She 
thought it was unfair for the loan agreements to be terminated when the loans were due to 
be written off in December 2018  anyway. 
Erudio said post was their primary contact  method  and didnt send  outbound  emails (other  
than to respond to emails  they received). It said Ms G hadnt updated her address  details  or 
contact number and it was her responsibility  to do so. It said Ms G should have known she 
would need to contact Erudio as she hadnt  made any payments for a long time or 
completed an application to defer. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He thought it would have been fair 
for Erudio  to have tried to contact Ms G on her email address before terminating the loan. He 
said Ms G had shown she had been actively engaging  with the debt,  by always deferring  for 
the previous 21 years  and making  a payment of £500 in 2016. So he didnt think  Ms G would 
knowingly avoid engaging  with Erudio particularly when the debt would have been written off 
within a year. He said a fair resolution would be to have Ms G pay the monthly instalments 
that were due between  August 2017  and December 2018 and then for Erudio to write off the 
remainder as per the original terms of the loan.  
Erudio didnt agree. In summary it said:
Its main point  of contact is post and sending emails isnt part of its process. The 
ombudsman doesnt have the power to change a process it follows.  
It followed the correct  process and it was Ms Gs responsibility to update her details 
and arrange for her post to be forwarded.  It would  have been  reasonable for her to 
Ref: DRN28283592have contacted Erudio sooner because she was aware she hadnt deferred  or 
arranged a payment  plan.  
The loan cant now be written off after 25 years because it has arrears and was 
defaulted and terminated. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of these  types of loan agreements  are a little different to a conventional loan from 
a bank. The key difference  is the clause that allows - in certain  circumstances - for the loan 
to be written off after 25 years from the date that the last loan was taken out. As these 
circumstances applied  to Ms G (had she not fallen into arrears), termination of the loan has 
significant implications  for her. This is because she loses the opportunity to have the debt 
written off. 
The date for write off for Ms Gs loans was in December 2018 and her loans only started  
falling into arrears a little more than a year before that. It doesnt seem  logical that Ms G 
would willingly forfeit her right to have  the loan written off, given that shed correctly deferred 
or made payments towards  the loan for the previous  24 years.  
I accept Erudio did send  a number of letters to the address they held on file for Ms G 
warning her about the arrears. I can see they also made  several calls to the phone  number 
they held but these  were all unsuccessful (I believe this was Ms Gs old home phone 
number). So I understand why Erudio says it has followed  the correct  process  and it hasnt 
done anything  wrong. Whilst I think emailing her might have been  helpful  particularly 
because it knew she lived abroad  I accept Erudio werent obliged to do this. But that isnt 
the only thing  to consider here.  
Ms G made a payment of £500 the year before which had covered the loan repayments for a 
considerable period of time. So she wasnt ignoring  her responsibility to repay. Also Ms G 
says she believes she did update her address through  Erudios online portal. But what 
appears to have happened is she did this on the wrong form. Ive seen she partially 
completed a deferment  application (including her new address details) rather  than using the 
correct form for an address update.  So I think this also demonstrates  she wasnt  trying  to 
ignore her responsibilities and had made attempts (albeit not correctly) to keep Erudio 
updated with her contact  details. 
Erudio says that Ms G should have realised she needed to contact Erudio because  she 
hadnt deferred or set up a repayment plan. But Ms G has given a plausible  explanation for 
why she didnt. She says she thought the loans were due to be written off very soon  and 
Erudio would contact  her if her £500  pre-payment had been used up and wasnt enough to 
cover repayments until the write off date. And this is exactly what  Erudio did do, but due to 
Ms G making what I believe to be an honest  mistake in how she tried to update her address 
details, she didnt get their letters. Whilst this doesnt  absolve her of all responsibility, I dont 
think, after taking  everything into account, its fair she loses  her right to have the loan 
balance written off because of what I think was a genuine mistake.
Ref: DRN28283593Although I dont think Erudio were  unfair  to initially default the account, I dont think its 
treated Ms G fairly since its become aware  of what happened.  A default is generally (but not 
always) recorded when the relationship  has broken down. But I dont think  that is truly what  
happened here. Taking into consideration the specific circumstances of this case, I think it 
would be unfair  to treat the loan as terminated  and in default. 
I believe Ms G has made a genuine mistake in (i) not updating her contact details correctly  
and (ii) assuming her loans were  due to be written off a year sooner than they were. Had she 
known the true position, I believe she would have either  completed  a deferment or continued  
to make payments  until the date the loans were written off. This is supported  by her actions 
prior to Erudio losing  contact with her, and her actions after she became aware of the status 
of the loans. And as I said above, although  Erudio wasnt obliged to email Ms G, given what 
it knew of her previous  behaviour on the account  and the fact that she lived abroad  I do 
think an email would have  been  helpful  in this specific case.
I think the fairest solution here is for Erudio to reinstate the loan on the same terms as 
before. If this isnt possible then it should treat the outstanding  balance  as if the loans were 
reinstated on their original  terms. But arrears have built up since  August  2017. I think its 
more likely Ms G would have applied to defer if she hadnt made the mistakes she did. 
Although its not certain she would have been  successful, the arrears  have  accrued  due to 
her mistake  and she has agreed to pay them.  
For these reasons, I think Ms G should  pay the arrears that have accrued between 
August 2017 and December 2018  (when the loans  would  have been written off). Erudio 
should allow  Ms G to pay the arrears back in instalments equivalent  to what  the normal 
monthly repayments would have been under the loan agreements.  But if Ms G chooses to 
she can pay it back sooner. Once the repayments have been made Erudio should reinstate 
the loans, or treat the debt as if the loans had been reinstated,  including  honouring the 
original terms  and conditions (which may or may not involve writing off the loans).
Lastly, Erudio  should ensure it removes any adverse information it may have  recorded  
against Ms Gs credit  file in relation to these loans since the arrears started accruing in 
August 2017.  Whilst it isnt in dispute  the loans were in arrears, I dont think  that accurately 
or fairly demonstrates Ms Gs ability or willingness to repay the debt for all the reasons Ive 
set out above.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
Erudio Student  Loans Limited  to:
Once Ms G has repaid the missed  payments  between August 2017 and 
December 2018 Erudio should  reinstate the loans, or treat the debt as if the loans 
had been reinstated including honouring the original terms  and conditions (which 
may or may not involve writing off the loans).  
Ref: DRN28283594Erudio should  allow Ms G to repay the missed  payments in equal instalments 
equivalent to what they would have  been  under the loan agreements, unless Ms G 
wishes to make overpayments. 
Erudio should  remove any adverse  entries recorded on her credit file from 
August 2017 onwards in relation to these loan agreements. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2828359