K820x#14Complaint
Mr T and his wife complain that The Co-operative Bank Plc (the Co-op) was wrong to reject 
their claim under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
I have removed Mrs T from this complaint because she isnt an eligible  complainant  under 
our rules, as the section  75 claim was made under  a Co-op  credit  card issued only in Mr Ts 
name. This administrative change is necessary for legal  reasons  but makes  no difference  to 
the ultimate outcome of the case.  
Background
Mr T entered  into a contract with a claims management company (CMC) to try to recover the 
costs of his timeshare. He paid £375  to the CMC in March 2014, using his credit card. The 
CMC then made a claim to the Co-op  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act on behalf 
of Mr T. When the Co-op rejected that claim, Mr T made a claim to the Co-op, again under 
section 75, for the return of the fee hed paid to the CMC. He said that the CMC had 
misrepresented the services hed purchased. The Co-op rejected  the claim because  it had 
evidence the CMC had not breached the terms of its agreement  with Mr T. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She did not uphold  the complaint as she felt 
that the CMCs  terms of business were clear  and there was no evidence of a breach of 
contract.
The matter  has been passed to me for a final decision as Mr T disagreed with the view.  He 
says hed been assured by the CMC that all claims were on a no win no fee basis  and he 
should not have been charged a fee as the claim was unsuccessful.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
A like claim can be made by the debtor against  the creditor under section 75 of the Act if 
there has been a misrepresentation or a breach of contract by the supplier  of goods or 
services funded via the regulated credit agreement. So I have to consider  whether there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the CMC. 
Mr T entered  into a contract with the CMC on 19 March 2014. The contract  was for it to 
pursue on his behalf the refund of fees he had paid to a timeshare company. Mr T paid the 
CMC an upfront pro forma fee of £375.  Mr T said that he had been  assured that all claims 
were on a no win no fee basis.  He wants a refund of that fee as the CMC  failed to recover  
his timeshare costs.
The Co-op has confirmed  that it received a claim from the CMC  for the mis-sold Timeshare. 
So Im satisfied that the CMC did pursue a claim on Mr Ts behalf.  I understand that claim 
was rejected, and that is why Mr T raised  a claim under section 75 to the Co-op for the 
return of the fee hed paid to the CMC.
Ref: DRN21614202The Co-op has provided me with evidence it received from the CMC. In refusing the 
section 75 claim, it relied on the terms of business Mr T and his wife signed  when  they 
entered into the contract. Term 2b stated that the upfront  fee would be accounted for in the 
final invoice after a successful win and payment of the claim.  I understand this to mean that 
the CMC  would credit this amount to any award made to Mr T, after it had deducted its 
success fee. 
The CMC told the Co-op that the agreement  he entered into in 2014 stated "where a pro 
forma fee has been  paid no refund is given in the event of a lender of FOS not upholding the 
decision " (section 19).  In this case the lender   again the Co-op   rejected the timeshare  
claim. So it was reasonable when considering the section 75 claim for it to conclude  that the 
CMC had provided the service, and was entitled  to retain the pro forma fee as allowed for 
under the terms  of the agreement Mr T signed.
I understand why Mr T is unhappy that the fee was not refunded  to them.  He paid for a 
service that did not deliver as hed expected. But he agreed to pay an upfront fee, and 
signed an agreement  that, in my opinion, explained  the circumstances under which the CMC 
would be entitled  to retain that fee.
 
So, based  on the evidence I have before me, I am satisfied that the Co-op has reasonably 
rejected Mr Ts section 75 claim and, accordingly, isnt required to pay damages  or refund 
the amount it lent for the purchase of this contract for services. 
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ts complaint against  The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2161420