K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the end of contract charges PSA Finance UK Limited  (PSA) have 
asked him to pay for refurbishment of his car at the end of its lease.
background 
In October  2015 Mr L took receipt of a new car. He funded the deal through  a three  year hire 
purchase agreement  with PSA. The agreement said that the car should be returned  at the 
end of the contract in a good  condition and if it wasnt Mr L would be responsible for paying 
for any refurbishment costs. But when  Mr L returned the car he was disappointed to be 
asked to pay for repairs to ten areas  that PSA said were damaged beyond fair wear and 
tear. The total bill was £709.
He complained to PSA but his complaint wasnt upheld. They thought  the third party 
inspection theyd completed clearly showed that the damage was outside of the industry  
guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA).  They  
reminded Mr L that they had advised  him of the condition the car should  be presented in 
when they sent their pre-termination letters to him.
But Mr L was still dissatisfied so he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
reviewed the pictures provided by the inspection company. He commented on each of the 
ten areas of repair Mr L was being charged for. He agreed that the damage  was beyond the 
fair wear and tear guidance in all but one area. He didnt think  PSA should charge for the 
dent to the tailgate/boot  as he didnt think the pictures evidenced the damage.  So he thought 
the final charge  should be £661.  PSA accepted his findings but Mr L didnt and he asked for 
a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the investigators most likely  got it right here. I think  the tailgate damage isnt 
evidenced but other damage is. I know thats  not the best of news for Mr L so please  let me 
explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ls finance agreement  required  him to return the vehicle in a good condition  with no 
damage that was beyond  fair wear and tear. The standard to which the condition  of the car 
would be inspected was detailed in section 18 of Mr Ls finance agreement. It explained  for 
example, what size of dent or scratch was allowable. The standard was in line with that 
provided by the industry guidelines published  by the BVRLA.
Ref: DRN26523802They reminded Mr L of that standard when they wrote to him in early October 2018 to tell 
him his lease was due to finish at the end of November 2018. And the third party  inspection  
completed, when  the deal did expire, was also completed to that standard.
The standard is meant to be applied to cars that are new at the beginning of the lease and 
so Im satisfied the correct  standard was applied in this instance.
Ive also reviewed each  of the ten areas of damage PSA are claiming  refurbishment  costs for 
and I agree that in each instance the damage is beyond  what the BVRLA guidance  would 
say was acceptable wear. However,  I agree with the investigator that the tailgate  damage is 
not well evidenced.  I cant see a dent; so I dont  think  this charge of £48 should  be applied.
The other charges  are clearly made out and I think PSA has been reasonable when making 
a charge for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell PSA Finance UK 
Limited to reduce the refurbishment charges they are asking Mr L to pay by £48 as the 
damage to the tailgate has not been evidenced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2652380