K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mrs P bought the policy in May 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The credit 
card and PPI were taken  out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Barclays made Mrs P aware that she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ps credit  card application form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, under  the section headed  Payment Protection Insurance, I can see Mrs P had 
the option of selecting  whether  or not she wanted  the PPI added  to her card.  Theres  a cross 
in the box above the statement Please tick the box above if you require  payment  
protection. Mrs P also appears to have placed  her initial next to the cross in the box. So, I 
think Barclays made it clear to Mrs P that the PPI was optional.  And I think  she agreed to it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs P, and the policy seems to have  been  right for 
her based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. She was eligible for cover and 
I cant see that she would have been  affected  by any of the things  the policy didnt cover  
such as pre-existing medical  conditions.
Mrs P has told us she didnt need the PPI as she could have sold her car and used  the 
proceeds to cover her credit card repayments. Shes  also said she could have relied on her 
parents for additional financial support.
Ive thought about what shes  said about selling her car. But I dont think  this would have 
meant that the policy was unsuitable for her. A successful claim under the policy would have 
enabled her to keep her car  which  presumably she had a need for and wanted.
I appreciate what Mrs P has said about her parents being able to help her if she ever needed 
financial help. While  I appreciate that Mrs Ps parents may have wanted  to help her, Im 
mindful that their financial situation could change which might mean their help couldnt 
always be relied upon. So I dont think this would  have meant that the policy wasnt  suitable  
for her.
Ref: DRN26791732I also havent seen  anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mrs P when 
she took out the policy  or that she had a particular  need to keep costs down. So, overall,  I 
think Barclays recommendation was suitable.  And I think Mrs P could have  found  the cover  
useful if she ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mrs P, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough  information  about  the PPI. I think its possible that Barclays  didnt  give her all 
the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mrs P buying  it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs P about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2679173