K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland  plc allowed a current account to be opened in her 
name without her authority. She doesnt believe the bank  handled  the application and 
subsequent developments at all well. The bank  operates  in this case  under its Halifax  brand.    
background
In April 2018 someone was able to open an account  using Ms Ms details. As part of the 
account opening process Halifax  sent Ms M a text message.  She suspected however that it 
was a scam  of some sort and so called Halifax to check. The account was opened and used 
by a fraudster, leaving  the account  overdrawn. Halifax, through  a debt collection agency, 
contacted Ms M about the resulting  debt.  
When Ms M contacted Halifax  about  what had happened,  it agreed  that she hadnt opened 
the account. It wrote off the debt and agreed  to remove any adverse credit information 
resulting from it; it also offered to pay Ms M £50 in compensation. 
Ms M didnt think this went far enough. She thought Halifax should have done more  when  
she responded to the text message. Instead,  the account remained open  and Ms M was 
contacted by debt collectors. She referred her complaint  to this service, and one of our 
investigators considered  it. 
Our investigator concluded that the banks offer of £50 was fair in the circumstances. He 
found that, when Ms M called in response to the text messages  shed  received,  shed said 
she didnt have a current account with Halifax, only an expired credit  card.  Because  she 
wasnt at home, she said she would provide further information later. The investigator 
concluded that it was reasonable for Halifax to take the view that it didnt need to take any 
further action  at that stage. Ms M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
complaint.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill comment first on my powers to consider  Ms Ms complaint. They  derive from the part of 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  Handbook  dealing with Dispute Resolution,  known as the 
DISP rules. Those rules  say that I can only consider a complaint if the complaint arose from 
one or more of a list of relationships between the complainant (here,  Ms M) and the 
respondent (Halifax).  They include where  the complainant is a person from whom  the 
respondent has sought to recover payment under  certain  types of credit agreement. 
Im satisfied therefore that I do have power to consider Ms Ms complaint, but only because  
Halifax sought payment  of the overdraft from her  not because  it opened  an account without 
her authority. 
Halifax says that it correctly followed its procedures for opening  Ms Ms account and didnt 
act in error  in doing so. Im afraid  I dont agree with that assessment. It opened  an account 
without proper authority;  even if it followed  its own and regulators processes in doing that, it 
was still an error. 
Ref: DRN29079482However, once Ms M made the bank aware  of its error, I believe it acted reasonably  to 
rectify the situation   by closing the account, removing any credit  information and writing off 
the debt.
Halifax also offered Ms M compensation  because it felt it gave incorrect information to Ms M 
when she got in touch in response to the text messages. Overall, I think that the 
compensation offered, £50, was reasonable in all the circumstances.  I shant be requiring 
the bank to increase that offer, but simply leave it to Ms M to decide  whether or not to accept 
it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Ms Ms complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Ms M to accept or reject  my decision before 24 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2907948