K821x#15Complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the response of MBNA Limited (MBNA), following a claim against  it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background
Mr B was contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as G, which  supplied  and installed solar 
panel systems. Following  a meeting,  Mr B agreed to enter into a contract  with G for it to 
supply and install a solar panel  system costing around £10,100.  To pay for this Mr B made 
four separate payments on credit cards  he held with MBNA.
Mr B made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative.  The 
representative said that G had made a number of oral and written  misrepresentations to Mr 
B that had induced  him into entering into the contract. These included that the solar panel 
system would be self-funding and pay for itself within 6 years, the expected returns  from the 
system had been  exaggerated and that Mr B hadnt  been made  aware of any ongoing 
maintenance costs  including replacing the inverter.  It also alleged that there had been  a 
breach of contract as the system hadnt  been installed to the relevant guidelines that were 
applicable at that time.  
To support its position, the representative provided  an expert  report which said the solar 
panels had been installed too close to the roofs  ridge and that there werent any wiring  
diagrams or a shutdown  procedure.  
In its final response letter,  MBNA  said it didnt  think  that the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented. This was because, based  on the representatives  own expert 
evidence, the solar panel system would pay for itself in just over 6 years. It also said that the 
guidelines referred to hadnt resulted in a financial loss to Mr B. On this basis,  it didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Unhappy with this response,  Mr B referred the complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Prior  to the investigator issuing her 
view on the complaint MBNA carried out its own expert report on the quality of the 
installation and whether it had been  carried out to the required standards and guidelines. 
MBNAs report said that overall  the installation had been carried out to a high standard  but 
that the panels did appear to be installed too close to the roofs  edge.  MBNA carried  out 
some further  investigation and said that the guidelines  and standards  that Mr Bs 
representatives expert had referred to didnt state how close to the roofs ridge  the solar  
panels could be installed. 
Following this information from MBNA our investigator said she was satisfied that the 
benefits Mr B would receive  from the solar  panel system were  in line with what G had told 
him i.e. that the cost of the panels would be recouped in just over six years.  Therefore, she 
was satisfied that they were self-funding. She was also satisfied that any future benefits Mr B 
receives would  more than off-set any maintenance costs he may incur over the lifetime  of 
the panels. The investigator agreed that the wiring diagram and shutdown procedures 
should be in place as per the appropriate  guidelines  applicable at the time of Mr Bs 
installation. She therefore  recommended that MBNA  either arrange, and pay, for an engineer 
to attend Mr Bs property  and install the wiring diagrams and shutdown procedures or make 
a cash settlement of £350 so Mr B could arrange this himself.  
Ref: DRN28963932MBNA agreed with the investigators view and offered to pay £350 to cover  the cost of Mr B 
arranging for an engineer  to carry out the remedial work.
Mr B, via his representative,  didnt  accept our investigators view of his complaint. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  the case has been  passed to me to review.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time. 
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA. S75 provides protection for consumers 
for good or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr B paid for the solar  panels  through his credit cards, MBNA agrees that s75 applies to 
this transaction.  This means  that Mr B could claim against MBNA   the creditor   for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the supplier in the same  way he could  have 
claimed against the supplier. So, I have  taken s75 into account when deciding  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
Were the benefits  of the solar panels misrepresented to Mr B?
Mr B says that he was cold called  by G and at a subsequent sales meeting at his home  told 
that the solar  panel system  would be self-funding,  with the system  paying for itself in 6 years.
To support this position,  the representative  has provided a copy of an email sent by G to Mr 
B, where it set out two options. The second  option,  which is the one Mr B decided to go 
ahead with shows the total cost of the system  as £10,124 with total annual benefits of 
£1,366. The email goes on to say:
The system will pay for itself in 6 years and, in the remaining 19 years of the guaranteed  25 
year period,  it is predicted to earn a further £44,712.00 profit.
Mr Bs representative has also provided its own experts report which  has provided a 
calculation of the total benefits Mr B could  expect to receive over the lifetime  of the solar 
panel system. This includes showing that the system will pay for itself in 6.23 years, the first 
year benefit  would be £1,548.51 and that the overall financial benefits  would  £38,294.40.  
However, this overall figure was based on a further 14 year period, not the 19 year period G 
had stated when  it emailed Mr B.
Ref: DRN28963933Ive carefully considered  all the evidence discussed  above. Having  done  so, I dont believe 
that the benefits of the solar panel  system were misrepresented to Mr B. I say this because  
the representatives own expert  report  says that the solar panels  will pay for themselves in 
6.23 years. And although this is slightly longer than Mr B had been  led to believe Im not 
satisfied that if hed been aware of this he wouldnt  have entered into the contract. This is 
because the difference between what G told him and what  the representatives expert report  
shows is around 3 months and I dont believe that this length of time would  have been  
sufficient enough  to have induced Mr B to enter into the contract.
Ive also noted  that his system is providing  him with a greater  benefit  than G had led him to 
believe. Based on the report provided  by the representative, he is likely to be receiving a 
higher level of financial benefits  that he was led to believe when he entered  into the contract, 
around £200 more  in the first year alone.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the benefits of the solar panel  system 
werent misrepresented to Mr B. Based on the evidence already discussed  his panels are 
performing better than he was led to believe and will pay for themselves broadly within the 
period he was led to believe. By my calculation this should have already happened,  and Mr 
B will now be receiving  a profit.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr Bs solar  panel  system is self-funding.  It has now paid for 
itself by way of FIT payments and savings  by using the electricity  generated by the solar 
panels rather than Mr B buying  it from his energy provider.
Maintenance costs
Mr B has said that G didnt make him aware  of any ongoing maintenance costs  associated 
with the solar panel system, in particular  that the inverter would need replacing  during the 
lifetime of the solar  panels at a cost of £1,000. Therefore, the representative has said that 
MBNA should pay Mr B £1,000 to cover  this.
Ive looked at the current information available from the Energy Savings Trust website. It 
says that solar panels dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter  will need 
replacing sometime during the lifetime of the solar panels at a current cost of around £800.
I accept that Mr B could  have some maintenance and repair costs over the lifetime  of the 
solar panel  system. As Ive outlined  above Mr Bs panels are self-funding within the term he 
was led to believe, and he has now recouped the cost of the panels by way of the FIT 
income and savings. Moving forward, Mr B is highly likely to enjoy significant benefit from the 
solar panel  system by way of savings and FIT income going forward.
Based on the available information Im satisfied  that the potential  benefit will more than cover 
any future maintenance costs.
Because of the reasons  Ive given above, Im not persuaded  that MBNA  should make an 
award for maintenance  and repair costs.
Quality of installation
The expert report provided by Mr Bs representative sets out concerns with the quality of the 
installation of the solar  panel system.  It says that the panels have been  installed too close to 
Ref: DRN28963934the roofs  ridge  and that there werent any wiring  diagrams  or shutdown procedures.  
Because of this, it has said that G has breached the contract  it had with Mr B.
The expert has referred to a number of guidelines to support its position. MBNA has 
disputed the evidence provided as it says the guidelines the expert refers  to werent in place 
when Mr Bs solar panel system was installed.
Firstly, Ill consider whether the panels have  been installed too close  to the roofs  ridge.  Ive 
reviewed the following  two documents:
1.BRE digest 489 Wind  loads  on roof-based Photovoltaic systems, Ill refer to this as 
document 1
2.BRE digest 495 Mechanical installation of roof-mounted Photovoltaic  systems,  Ill refer 
to this as document 2.
Document 1 sets out how to calculate  the wind load for solar panels  and how the PV module 
and fixings should  be designed to withstand  the wind load they will be exposed to. Ive also 
noted that it says it gives recommendations and guidance  for the design  of roof-based PV 
systems for wind loads.
Document 2 says:
This Digest gives guidance on installing and using photovoltaic systems on domestic roofs.  
The guidance refers  only to the mechanical  installation of roof mounted  integrated and 
stand-off photovoltaic systems; it provides best practice guidance  on installation 
requirements and does not constitute fixing instructions.
Both of these documents refer to providing  guidance rather  than the regulatory  requirements 
and Ive also noted that neither of them  states  how close  solar panels should or shouldnt be 
installed to a roofs ridge.
MBNAs independent report  also referred  to the panels being installed too close  to the roofs 
ridge in accordance with the MCS Guide  to Installation of Photovoltaic  Systems  2011 (the 
guide).
Ive reviewed the guide and it says Unless specifically designed to do so, systems should 
be kept away from the roof perimeter. For a domestic roof, a suitable minimum clearance 
zone is around 40-50cm. Both experts  agree that the solar panels  installed on Mr Bs roof 
are installed  closer than 40-50cm. So, the installation appears to not be to the required 
standard as it is too close to the roofs edge. 
The guide  also says that it was first published  in 2012, so after Mr Bs solar panel system  
was installed.  Therefore,  although the panels  appear to have been installed too close 
according to the guide, I cant conclude this is a breach of contract  as these requirements 
werent in place at the time Mr Bs panels  were  installed.
Ive gone on to consider the Photovoltaics in Buildings Guide  to the installation of PV 
Systems 2nd edition.  Ill refer to this as the 2nd edition. This preceded  the guide mentioned 
above. Again, this doesnt set out how close solar panels should or shouldnt  be installed to 
the roof perimeter. 
Ref: DRN28963935In summary  I cant conclude that Mr Bs solar panel  system has been  installed too close to 
the roofs  ridge.
The expert for Mr B has also said that there are no wiring diagrams or shutdown  procedures. 
This is in breach  of the 2nd edition  requirements which,  as stated above, applied when Mr Bs 
solar panel  system was installed. Ive noted that the 2nd edition  says that All labels  must  be 
clear, easily visible, constructed and affixed to last and remain legible for the lifetime of the 
system.
Taking this into account Im satisfied that the wiring diagrams and shutdown  procedures 
should be in place on Mr Bs system, and the photos  provided  by the expert  show that they 
arent. Although  this hasnt impacted on the performance of Mr Bs solar  panels or the 
benefits, he has received  Im satisfied that MBNA should put this right as the system isnt 
compliant with the requirements that were in place at the time the solar panels were  
installed.
The investigator recommended  that MBNA  either arrange for a suitable engineer to carry out 
this remedial work or pay Mr B £350 to arrange for the remedial work to be carried out. This 
figure was based  on the similar remedial work carried out on similar types of complaints 
seen by this service.
MBNA agreed to pay the £350,  and for similar  reasons as explained  above,  Im satisfied that 
this is a fair amount for Mr B to arrange  to have the remedial  work  completed at his own 
convenience 
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mr Bs solar  panel  system is self-funding  and Im not 
persuaded that MBNA should make an award  for any maintenance costs.  In respect to the 
quality of the installation Im persuaded that the wiring diagram and shutdown procedure  
should be installed to ensure the solar panels  are compliant to the relevant guides in place at 
the time they were installed.   
Ref: DRN28963936My final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint. In full and final settlement of it, MBNA 
Limited must  pay Mr B £350 for the remedial work that needs to be completed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2896393