K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Leeds Building  Society (Leeds) havent included a 
reminder on their annual mortgage statements  that they could overpay their mortgage by 
10% each  year, penalty free. 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest  only mortgage  with Leeds in 2009  for around £200,000. 
Around £165,000 of the mortgage was taken out on a 10 year fixed  rate of 4.75% (Part A) 
expiring in 2019. And a further  £35,000 was taken out on a 5 year fixed rate of 4.99% (Part 
B), expiring in 2014. They applied for the mortgage  through a broker. 
Since then theyve been receiving annual mortgage  statements. Theyre unhappy because,  
although these  statements  mention  that an early repayment charge (ERC) will apply if they 
repay their mortgage in full, theres no mention on the mortgage statements that its possible 
to repay  up to 10% of their mortgage  early without incurring these fees.  
In particular, Mr and Mrs M think its misleading for Leeds to only mention the ERC in its 
annual statements  without also pointing out that they can repay up to 10% without 
incurring this charge.  
Mr and Mrs M say if Leeds had reminded them about this, they wouldve taken advantage  of 
this from the second  year of their mortgage  and so wouldve paid off much  more of it by now. 
Theyd like Leeds  to put them in the position they would now be in if theyd paid 10% of the 
mortgage balance  off each year since  2012. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint was upheld. He said he didnt think  there 
was an obligation  on Leeds to remind Mr and Mrs M that they could overpay, so he didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. They said,  in summary, that they 
think Leeds were giving partial  information in a misleading way. So the complaints been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs M didnt take out their mortgage with Leeds directly - they used a 
broker who gave them mortgage advice and recommended a particular  mortgage  to them. It 
would have been the brokers  role to try to find a mortgage with the features  that Mr and Mrs 
M wanted,  and explain to them why it was suitable for their needs  at the time. Its not clear to 
me what the broker did or didnt tell them about  overpaying their mortgage at the time they 
applied for the mortgage. However,  Leeds  wouldnt be responsible for the sale of the 
mortgage and the mortgage advice given - the broker is irresponsible  for this. In any event, 
Mr and Mrs M seem to accept that it was probably discussed with them by the broker  when 
they took the mortgage out. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  offer.  The mortgage offer clearly says that:
Ref: DRN26123382you can make additional  capital lump sum payments of up to 10% per year on any part of 
this mortgage  without incurring the Early Repayment Charges set out in Section 10. This 
condition is given for both Part A and Part B of the mortgage. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M 
were given this information by Leeds  in the mortgage offer before  they took out the 
mortgage. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage statements   the format  has changed slightly over 
the years  but the content is similar. I can see that these set out what ERCs would apply if 
they repaid their mortgage in full. But the statements dont say overpayments  of up to 10% 
can be made without incurring an ERC. So I agree with Mr and Mrs M that Leeds didnt 
specifically remind them about  this feature of their mortgage every year. But, like the 
adjudicator, I dont think they had any obligation to do so.
Mr and Mrs M say it was misleading of Leeds  to only mention  the ERC. But overpayments  
are mentioned in other mortgage  literature  that Leeds says its been sending to them  over 
the years. 
In particular, Leeds has provided  the 2012  copy of a leaflet  called your  questions answered 
which it says wouldve been sent with annual  statements. In this leaflet  theres series of 
frequently asked  questions one of which is about  paying more than the monthly  repayment.  
And it says if customers want to discuss over paying, they should  contact  the payments 
team. But I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have  ever contacted Leeds to ask about 
overpayments. So I dont think Mr and Mrs M have been given wrong  information  about this. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs M wouldve found  it helpful to have been reminded about  the 
option of overpaying their mortgage. But I dont  think  Leeds acted unfairly by not doing so. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612338