K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a car supplied to him under a finance agreement with 
First Response Finance Ltd (FRF) wasnt of satisfactory quality and the lending  was 
irresponsible.
background
Mr A bought a used  car in April 2018.  The car had covered  90500  miles at the point of sale 
and was around nine years  old. The car cost £6500  which Mr A financed with an agreement  
from FRF.
In October  2018 Mr A complained to FRF that the car had been  returned to the garage on a 
number of occasions for faults including issues with the parking sensors,  air conditioning 
issues and then a fault with the alternator and starter motor. These were repaired under  
warranty however a fault was then identified with the ignition  barrel  which the supplying  
garage and/or warranty company refused to cover.
FRF responded that as there was no evidence  that these faults were present at the point  of 
sale it was not responsible and so Mr A brought his complaint to this service.
Arrangements were  made for the car to be inspected and in May 2019  an independent 
inspection by the ACE found a fault with the ignition barrel but concluded  that given the age 
and mileage of the car it was unlikely that this fault was present at the point of sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  think FRF had done anything wrong. Having looked at the age and 
mileage of the car and the miles  travelled  by Mr A and taking into account  the conclusions  
reached by the independent inspector he wasnt able to conclude  that the fault that caused 
the breakdown  was there at the point of sale.
Mr A didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the car had numerous  faults  and wasnt  
fit for purpose at the time of supply. He said that the faults were part of the overall problems 
with the car and these had been overlooked.  The adjudicator assured Mr A that these  
matters had been considered but a car of this age and mileage was likely to have faults  and 
Mr As additional information didnt change  his conclusions.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. In addition  he said that FRF had lent 
to him irresponsibly given his income  at the time of taking out the agreement.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I sympathise with Mr A and the financial 
and mechanical  difficulties he has had with his car.
FRF, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of satisfactory  
quality at the point Mr A bought it. Whether or not something is of satisfactory quality 
depends on a number of things such as the age and mileage of the car and the price that 
was paid for it. In Mr As case the car was nine years old and had covered 90500 miles.  The 
car cost £6500.  Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time but again  that will 
depend on the age of the car and the amount of miles  covered.
Ref: DRN23864622Mr A has also referred to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) and his attempts  to reject 
the car. I dont apply  the law directly in the same way that a court  would approach matters 
but I do take it into account  when deciding what is fair and reasonable.
I dont doubt that Mr A experienced  problems with his car when he first bought  it. I can see 
from the evidence  provided that there  were  issues with the car that were addressed by the 
garage that Mr A bought the car from. 
Mr A has said in his letter  that he wanted  to reject the car. The CRA provides 30 days  to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed the 
opportunity to repair the goods. This is what happened here with the air conditioning and 
parking sensors.  I havent seen anything that suggests that Mr A tried to reject the car within  
the 30 day period  as set out by the CRA and so I think it was reasonable for the business to 
be allowed the opportunity to repair the car.
I can see that there were  issues  that were addressed by the supplying garage  and I dont  
doubt that these  were  inconvenient for Mr A. In October 2018  Mr A first raised his complaint 
with FRF and it appears that the only issue outstanding at that time was the ignition failure 
which I accept is a significant fault.
I cant say that the faults that were  present before  the ignition barrel failure  contributed to 
that failure or made the car of unsatisfactory quality given its age and mileage. I would 
expect a car of this age and mileage to have mechanical issues  as parts wear out.
In order for me to be persuaded that the car was not of satisfactory quality I would have to 
be satisfied that the issue  with the ignition barrel was there or developing at the point of sale.  
The independent inspection report concludes that this would not have been there at the 
point of sale. I agree with the engineer as I would have expected  the car to have  had 
problems starting before  October 2018  if the problem had been there at the point of sale. I 
appreciate that Mr A doesnt agree with the inspection report but I have no reason to doubt 
his conclusions given  the information  I have seen.    
I think it is more  likely that this issue developed  over time and was as a result  of wear and 
tear taking into account the age and mileage of the car. So I cant  say that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of sale.
Mr A says that he shouldnt have  been given the finance in the first place as it was 
unaffordable lending.  I cant  see that he has raised this issue with the business  or given it an 
opportunity to respond. I havent  seen anything that suggests Mr A shouldnt have been 
given the finance but I am not able to look at this aspect of Mr As complaint as he has not 
raised it until now. If Mr A is now in financial difficulty, I would expect FRF to respond 
positively and sympathetically. I would suggest that Mr A contacts FRF to try and reach an 
affordable repayment  plan for any money that he owes.
If Mr A is not happy with the way FRF have responded or that he has a complaint that the 
lending was unaffordable  then he would need  to complain about that to FRF first.
I am sorry  that this is not the outcome  Mr A was hoping for but I cant  ask FRF to do any 
more. 
  
Ref: DRN23864623my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision 
before 3 May 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386462