K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr G took out 15 loans with Sunny between September 2015 and June 2018.There was a
six month gap between loans 5 and 6. Mr G says he was borrowing to repay  existing loans
and his credit file shows his use of short  term loans.  Mr G says he cant now repay  the loans
and there  is a balance outstanding.
After the complaint came to this service, Sunny offered when providing its response,  to write
off the outstanding balance and remove loans 14 and 15 from Mr Gs credit  file.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  that Mr Gs complaint about
loans 11 to 13 should also be upheld. She said it wasnt unfair  for Sunny to offer loans  1 to
10 but at the point  of loan 11 Mr Gs borrowing pattern was a cause for concern and Sunny
shouldve seen that he was persistently relying  on these loans. Because of Sunnys offer in
relation to loans  14 and 15 the adjudicator didnt consider them.
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that it didnt think  Mr
G was persistently relying on the credit. It said it was happy to stand by the offer of £96.86.
As Mr G didnt  accept that offer the complaint was passed to me to decide.
When I was considering the complaint  I was unable to reconcile the figures with the offer to
write off the balance  and I asked the business  to clarify the basis  of the offer on loans 14 and
15. The business responded on 20 November 2019  with an offer letter that it said was sent
with the case  file and offered to refund all interest and charges from loan 11 onwards.
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  setting out why I was minded to expand on 
the conclusions  of the adjudicator and uphold  loans 11 to 15. I considered  that it would be 
fair to allow the parties to comment on my reasons.  Mr G replied to confirm that he accepted 
my provisional decision and provided some figures  in relation to the offer and the 
outstanding balance. 
Sunny also didnt disagree  with my conclusions and sent in further points in support of the 
offer to uphold loans  11 to 15. 
Since neither party disagrees with my conclusions  I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision which is repeated  below.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of
Ref: DRN22538062different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  I think that at the point of loan 11 Mr G
was showing signs that he was reliant  on the credit and further  loans were  unsustainable. It
now appears that Sunny has agreed  to refund all interest and charges  in relation to loans 11
to 15 and to remove  these from Mr Gs credit file. I consider that this is fair and reasonable 
and in line with what I would ask it to do.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr G loans 1 to 10 on the
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. There was a
6 month  gap between  loans  5 and 6 which is long enough for Sunny to conclude any
difficulties may have passed and a new lending chain to begin. As Mr G hasnt raised  any
objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to ten, I dont think
that I need to say more about  them.
So I uphold Mr Gs complaint about loans 11 to 15.
Ref: DRN22538063putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy them  back before doing what I have
set out below. If the business isnt able to buy the debts back it should  liaise  with the new
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr G towards interest,  fees and
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it
has already refunded.
B. Calculate  8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr G which were
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally  made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been repayments of the 
principal. If this results in Mr G having made overpayments then these should be refunded 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Sunny should  then refund the 
amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move  to step "E".
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B"
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However if there is still an
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with
Mr G.
E. The number of loans taken  from loan eleven onwards means any information
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans 11 to 15 should be
removed from Mr Gs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253806