K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint is about a life assurance policy  he took out in 2008 via Cavendish  Online 
Ltds website. He believes that Cavendish should  have made sure he understood the policy 
he asked it to arrange for him, as it has turned out the policy  was not the right one for his 
needs and circumstances at the time.  Mr T believes  the policy  was mis-sold.
background
Cavendish provides different levels of service to consumers who want to arrange  life 
assurance policies,  investments  and pensions. For life assurance policies, it gives  its 
customers the choice  of whether or not to take advice  about  what policies to arrange to fulfil 
their needs.  The cost of the service reflects the amount of work Cavendish does  the 
cheapest being the no-advice option because all it does  is administer  the policy application. 
Mr T chose  not to take advice, selected  a policy he wanted from Cavendishs website and 
instructed Cavendish to arrange it. He signed a declaration confirming he hadnt had advice 
from Cavendish. Unfortunately, the policy  Mr T asked  Cavendish to arrange  was a 
decreasing term assurance policy. As Mr T has an interest-only mortgage,  he needed a level 
term assurance policy. Mr T considers  Cavendish should have given him advice and 
ensured he arranged  the right policy  for his needs.
Following receipt of information from the policy provider about  the reduction  in the level of 
life cover the policy was providing, Mr T complained to Cavendish. It rejected his complaint 
because it hadnt  provided him with advice, so it wasnt responsible for whether the policy  
was suitable for Mr T. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Cavendishs conclusions and referred his complaint  to this service.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint, but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr T 
didnt accept the adjudicators view and so the complaint  has been passed to me for further 
consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and I know this will 
disappoint Mr T, I will not be upholding his complaint.
Mr T had the option in 2008 of receiving  advice about the policy he should take out to protect 
his mortgage.  He chose not to do so and selected a policy for himself after receiving an 
illustration for the product.  It was Mr Ts right to choose not to take advice. However, if his 
selection of policy was an incorrect one, I cant hold Cavendish responsible for it being 
wrong.
Mr T has said he thinks Cavendish should have insisted on giving him advice  to ensure he 
had the right policy. A financial  adviser  cant make a consumer take advice. It can refuse  to 
process an execution-only sale for them, but that wouldnt necessarily make them take 
advice over taking their business  elsewhere. The simple fact is that Cavendish offers an 
advice service for those  who want it. Mr T didnt and I cant find Cavendish responsible for 
Mr Ts choice not to take advice or the consequences of him selecting the wrong type of 
policy for his mortgage.
Ref: DRN26270112my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 
12 August 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627011