K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Mrs W complain  that RAC Motoring Services made an error  in relation to their 
rescue cover policy, which meant  that it didnt assist Mr A when  he contacted it for help.
background
One evening in November 2018,  Mr As car had a flat tyre. He called RAC for assistance but 
it told him that his cover  had expired in August 2018. That wasnt in fact correct. Mr A and 
Mrs Ws policy was in force but RAC hadnt  loaded  their information correctly  onto its 
breakdown system.
Mr A says that a lorry driver assisted him, which cost him a lot. He was worried that hed 
continued to pay for a service he hadnt  received and that he didnt  have breakdown cover.
In response to the complaint, RAC said it would reimburse Mr As costs on production  of 
receipts and offered compensation  of £100.  Mr A didnt think that was enough.  
Our investigator thought that RAC had dealt  with the complaint fairly. She said that RAC 
didnt know about  its error  until Mr A contacted  it. The adjudicator thought that it was 
reasonable for RAC  to gather all the information it needed before explaining what  had 
happened. 
The adjudicator noted that Mr A and Mrs W were worried out driving  without cover  but, 
fortunately, they didnt need  breakdown assistance again before  the matter  was resolved. 
She thought  that the compensation RAC had already offered was fair. The adjudicator 
thought it was reasonable for RAC  to ask for receipts for any payments Mr A made.  
Mr A and Mrs W didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They said that she had favoured RAC 
when it had taken  their money  without providing a service.  Mr A and Mrs W said that RAC 
had put their lives at risk and it was up to it to check that its databases were correct. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RAC accepts that it made an error here in that it told Mr A that his policy had expired. That 
wasnt correct. I dont  doubt that this was worrying for Mr A at an already stressful  time. And 
it took RAC  some time to gather the information it needed from another insurer  so that it 
could confirm the correct position.  That meant  that Mr A and Mrs W were unsure of their 
position for some weeks.
Mr A and Mrs Ws policy was in force  throughout.  So RAC would be obliged to reimburse  
them for any reasonable costs they incurred  if they made a valid claim that was refused 
incorrectly. Fortunately, Mr A and Mrs W had no reason to claim again while  the matter was 
being sorted out. 
Ref: DRN23989502Considering everything, I think that RACs offer to reimburse costs on production  of receipts  
and pay compensation of £100 is fair. In reaching that view,  Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience RACs error caused Mr A and 
Mrs W. And its reasonable for RAC  to ask for receipts in relation to costs incurred by Mr A. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A and Mrs W but I dont think that there  are any grounds  on which 
to direct RAC to do any more that its already offered to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr A and Mrs Ws complaint as the offer RAC 
Motoring Services has already made is fair. If its not already done so, RAC  should pay 
Mr A and Mrs W compensation of £100  and consider their claim for costs on production  of 
appropriate receipts. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2398950