K820x#14complaint
Mr M is a director of K, a limited company. He complains on behalf  of K that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has incorrectly applied interest  to two business loans and 
hasnt adjusted the loan repayments in line with the Bank of England base rate.
background
In 2012 K took out a business loan with NatWest for £120,000 and another  for £50,000 in 
2015. In 2018 Mr M noticed that interest payments were being  added to both loans every  
quarter. He complained to NatWest that this was incorrect  as it meant interest  was being 
charged twice on the loans. He was also unhappy the monthly  repayments  hadnt  been 
adjusted in line with changes to the Bank  of England  base rate. 
NatWest investigated  the complaint and found they hadnt adjusted  the monthly payments 
but they thought the interest was being correctly applied. They apologised  for their error, 
offered to correct the repayment amounts and paid £100 as compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
Unhappy with their response  Mr M brought  the complaint to this service. An investigator 
looked into the complaint and said:
The monthly repayments had been  incorrect and NatWest had acknowledged  their 
mistake. Once the complaint was resolved NatWest said they would reduce the 
monthly repayments to take into account any overpayments. This would ensure the 
loans would still be repaid in the number of payments originally agreed when the 
loans were taken out.
The £100 compensation paid was fair and reasonable.
The quarterly interest charge  wasnt  additional  interest. NatWest  were breaking down 
the interest due on the loans into small amounts and adding it onto the loans every 
three months.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. He wasnt convinced the quarterly interest amounts were not additional interest  
payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator.
the loan repayments
NatWest has acknowledged their mistake in not recalculating the repayments  on both loans 
when there  were changes  to the Bank of England Base Rate in 2016, 2017 and 2018, even 
though the interest rates were applied correctly. This has resulted  in an overpayment  of the 
loan amount. NatWest  has said it will amend the monthly repayments so that future 
repayments are correct. And its offered two options  to correct the mistake:
Ref: DRN202440721.Transfer any overpayments into Ks business  account so the terms of the loans will 
stay the same as originally intended.  NatWest will write off any underpaid debit 
interest as a result of the overpayment refund. 
2.Leave the overpayments on the loans so the loans  are repaid early.
Im satisfied either of these options will ensure  K suffers no financial loss. Im also satisfied 
the £100 compensation is fair and reasonable for the error that was made. 
calculation of interest
Mr M says interest hasnt been  applied correctly to both loan accounts. The information  Ive 
seen shows both loan accounts were drawn  down with the correct  capital sums, £120,000 
and £50,000 respectively.  Crucially, there  was no interest applied  at the time of drawdown  to 
either loan.
Section 1.2 of the loan agreements for both loans  say The Banks Base  Rate  Loan Terms 
form part of this Agreement  and are available to be read and printed online. NatWest  says 
the Terms havent changed since the loans were taken out.
The Base Rate Loan Terms set out how interest is calculated  and applied  to both loans. 
Section 2.2.2 says interest will be calculated daily on a 365 day year, both before and after 
demand or court order. Unless otherwise stated, interest will be applied and compounded on 
the final business day of March, June,  September and December in each year, and on final 
repayment of the Loan. A business day is a weekday other than a national  holiday.
Looking at the loan statements, interest has been calculated and applied  in line with the 
Base Rate Loan Terms. Both loans have been drawn down with the correct capital sum and 
interest has been applied on the final business day of March, June, September  and 
December. 
NatWest hasnt charged interest twice, no interest was added  to the capital sums at the time 
of drawdown, the only interest applied is the quarterly  amount  which is calculated daily.  
Ive not seen anything to persuade me the interest has been  calculated and applied 
incorrectly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint because National Westminster  
Bank Plc has done enough to resolve  the complaint.  Mr M, on behalf  of K, now needs to 
decide how it wants the overpayments to be treated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024407