K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited acted unfairly  and unreasonably when dealing  
with his claim under a private medical  insurance policy. He wants Aviva  to pay for the full 
course of treatment.
background
Mr S is the beneficiary of an AXA group  private medical insurance scheme taken out by his 
employer; the policy also covers his daughter A. A needed an on-going  course of treatment 
and Mr S said that Aviva gave him incorrect information about the limits of the policy.  Mr S 
said that he relied on the incorrect  information  and made a claim.  He was unhappy that 
Aviva limited  the payments to a maximum available benefit of £850 (after  deducting a £150 
excess).
Mr S complained to Aviva. It agreed  that Mr S had been given incorrect information when he 
called it in December  2018. But it said that Mr S knew  from September 2018 onwards that 
mental health treatment  was dealt with under a different section of the policy and there was 
a maximum available  benefit of £1,000 a policy year for such costs. The correct information 
was repeated to Mr S in January 2019 and there  was still money available  for treatment 
when he was told again the correct  position. Aviva also said that Mr S knew  if the excess 
wasnt paid, it would  be deducted from the maximum  available benefit limit. Aviva paid £150 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the incorrect information and agreed to 
pay for the treatment it incorrectly said would  be covered, subject to a costs  cap.
Mr S complained to us, saying that he wanted  As treatment  costs covered without a limit 
being applied.  The senior investigators view was that Aviva  gave Mr S correct  information 
over the phone in September  2018  about what treatment was covered, the excess fees and 
the maximum available benefits limit. He noted that when Mr S called in December  2018,  he 
was told that there was no costs limit for outpatients treatment but Mr S raised  the issue  of 
the £1,000 limit and this was when  the incorrect information was given. It was accepted that 
Mr S hadnt  been  able to access written information  about his policy.
The investigator said that it wasnt fair or reasonable to expect Aviva to provide unlimited 
cover in the future,  given  the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr S knowledge  of the 
correct position.  He said that the treatment had been paused and it was up to Mr S to deal 
with the shortfall  in the future. The senior investigator accepted that Mr S had relied on 
Avivas incorrect  information when he arranged the initial course of treatment and said the 
shortfall between what  Aviva had paid and the amount  due should  be covered until the 
treatment was paused.
Aviva didnt initially respond to the investigators  view, so an ombudsmans  decision was 
needed. Aviva later responded and pointed  out that Mr S only had incorrect information for 
about four days, which included the New Year break, and A had started  the initial treatment  
three months earlier. Aviva noted  the second  therapist had been  seen before the incorrect 
information was given.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN28092082The relevant rules  and industry guidelines  say that Aviva has a responsibility  to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy has limits  on how much can be spent  on particular items, and theres a maximum 
available benefit  of £1000 for mental  health  treatment. I note that Mr S is a beneficiary of a 
group scheme and was told that his employer had to supply the written  details of the policy,  
rather than Aviva. I cant look at the actions of the employer, but I note Mr S did know about  
the limit from his conversation with Aviva  in September 2018 (and correctly referred to this 
when discussing matters  in December 2018). Im satisfied that by September 2018 Mr S 
understood the key terms and conditions of the policy as far as they affected As treatment, 
and its fair and reasonable for Aviva to apply  those terms.
I can see from the evidence that Mr S had been told the right information  in September  
2018, and the treatment  with the first therapist started after this (in October  2018). And the 
second therapist  was also first seen before any incorrect information was given (and A 
continued to see her after the correct  information was given).
Im of the view that its clear Mr S decision to send  A to see the second therapist wasnt 
affected by the incorrect information he was given (for a short four day period, including a 
bank holiday). A was seeing the second therapist before the incorrect information was given 
and while  Mr S had the right information  about  the terms  and conditions  of the policy.  In 
effect, A was going to see the therapist either  way, and continued to do so once the correct 
information was restated  by Aviva in January 2019 (before the second appointment). 
So I cant say that the incorrect information  caused Mr S to commit to a course of treatment 
as it had started and its clear it wouldve continued in any event. I have to put the consumer 
back into the position that they wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt  been made.  In these 
circumstances, I think  Mr S wouldve proceeded with As treatment if the mistake  hadnt 
happened as it was started  before  any incorrect information was given, and continued 
afterwards.
I think Aviva  did act unfairly and unreasonably  by giving Mr S incorrect information in late 
December 2018,  but I dont think this caused him to incur the treatment  costs  as Ive 
explained above. I think its fair and reasonable for compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by the incorrect  information. While  money never truly compensates for trouble and 
upset, I think £150  compensation  is fair and reasonable  for the trouble and upset  caused  to 
Mr S by being given  incorrect information after previously  being given the correct  
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr S set out why he disagreed with it. He said that I 
was incorrect in believing that it wasnt until late December 2018 that he was given the 
incorrect information. Mr S said that it was in mid-December and on the same  day that his 
daughter saw the new therapist, and that it was the information he was given on this day that 
he relied upon to make  the appointment. Aviva  didnt respond to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN28092083I have carefully thought  about what Mr S has said, and reviewed the evidence  again. This 
includes the notes  written by Aviva  at the time of each of its calls with Mr S in December 
2018, and on which I can place weight as they were written at the time.  Ive been able to 
listen to the call in late December. Avivas notes and the call recording confirm that Mr S was 
given the incorrect  information in late December  2018. The call recording also shows that 
Mr S said in late December that the earlier conversation in mid December was about the 
change of therapist  and getting her registered  onto Avivas system, not policy  limits.
Mr S was given the correct information  previously in September 2018, and I note Mr S hasnt 
disputed this finding. I also think that its unlikely  that Mr S was able to make a same day 
appointment for his daughter to see the new therapist if he was given the incorrect 
information in mid-December as he has said; generally theres a delay  between  making an 
appointment and attending it. Im persuaded that the evidence shows the incorrect 
information about policy limits was given  in late December, not mid December 2018.
I remain of the view that its unlikely that the incorrect  information  from Aviva caused Mr S to 
commit to a course of treatment for A, and that its probable the incorrect information  was 
given after the new therapist was first seen. I still believe that Mr S wouldve taken the same 
action if the mistake hadnt been  made as the therapy  continued after Mr S knew  the 
information given  in December was incorrect and that the view set out in my provisional 
decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
9 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2809208