K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Acromas Insurance Company  Limited unfairly rejected a claim he 
made under his breakdown repair cover  (BRC) policy.
Acromas is the underwriter of Mr Hs BRC policy. All references to Acromas  include its 
agents. 
background
Mr H bought a BRC policy with the insurer Acromas in February  2018.  In June 2018 Mr H 
broke down  and called for assistance. A patrol agent attended but he wasnt able to repair  
Mr Hs car at the roadside. So Acromas arranged for Mr Hs car to be recovered  to his 
preferred garage. 
Acromas declined Mr Hs claim for repairs because it said the cause of the breakdown  was 
accidental damage.  Mr Hs BRC policy with Acromas doesnt provide cover  for repairs  
caused by accident damage. It said it based its decision on its discussions with Mr Hs 
garage as to what caused the breakdown. The garage said the damage to Mr Hs car had 
most probably been caused by debris damage that went  into the engine and cut the 
alternator belt. 
Mr H didnt agree. So he asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator initially  
recommended upholding Mr Hs complaint.  But Acromas didnt agree and provided further 
evidence. 
On second review, the investigator thought Acromas had reached its decision reasonably 
and in line with the policy. 
Mr H didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Mr H said he was travelling along the motorway and had passed the scene of an accident 
where there  was debris on the road.  The recovery agent found that Mr Hs car broke  down 
because the alternator belt snapped  and this had caused the timing belt to dislodge. 
The garage that inspected Mr Hs car is the garage  Mr H takes his car to regularly  so its 
aware of its maintenance history and condition.  
The engineer told Acromas that in his view, the damage to Mr Hs car had most likely been 
caused by debris  from the road.  The engineer said he believed this was probably the cause 
because it was a clean cut  rather than one from wear and tear. 
Mr Hs BRC  policy  with Acromas says it excludes  cover for repairs caused by accidental  
damage. This is something thats  more appropriately covered under a fully comprehensive  
insurance policy rather than a BRC policy.
Ref: DRN24993982Mr Hs BRC  policy  provides cover in the event of a sudden mechanical or electrical fault.
Our investigator asked  for further comments from Mr Hs garage. Acromas has provided a 
copy of what the engineer  said in an email to it dated 22 March 2019:
The engineer explained that Mr Hs car had been  well maintained  by his garage and was 
running well. He wrote the following:
The timing belt had jumped teeth causing  sudden failure and valve damage. The alternator 
belt was missing and we found a clean cut part of a belt indicating  it had been  suddenly cut.
Mr H (my abbreviation) had indicated that he had driven past an accident  where  there was 
debris on the road.My honest  opinion is that a sudden  piece came into the auxiliary belt 
which went into the timing  belt area and caused a sudden abrupt stop on the engine.
Mr H disagrees  with the engineers opinion. He believes its unlikely that the debris on the 
road could  have travelled in the way it would have through the engine in order to cause the 
damage. 
But I think Acromas has properly considered the information available to it. A qualified  
engineer explained that in his professional opinion the damage was caused  accidentally. I 
appreciate Mr H has provided his reasons for why he doesnt  agree. But as the investigator  
explained, Mr H hasnt  provided evidence of equal  weight to contradict the professional  
opinion of the motor engineer who inspected his car. So I dont  think Acromas was 
unreasonable to rely on the engineers opinion when  it decided  to reject Mr Hs claim.
Taking everything into account,  I think Acromas decision  to reject Mr Hs claim for repairs to 
his car under  his BRC policy  was reached  in a reasonable way. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed with my decision. But this means  Im not asking Acromas to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2499398