K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that a car she was financing through  an agreement  with Close Brothers  
Limited (Close Brothers)  was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mrs S took receipt of a used car in May 2018. She financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The vehicle was nearly ten years old at the time and 
had covered just over 90,000 miles.
Mrs S experienced problems with the car juddering. She complained in July 2018. On a test 
drive the dealership noted juddering and a garage they used suggested  that to resolve  the 
problem the tyres would need replacing with star rated  tyres.  
Mrs S complained to Close Brothers and they commissioned  an independent inspection of 
the car. But during a 5 mile test drive the inspector  was unable  to replicate the juddering  and 
he suggested there was nothing  wrong.
But Mrs S still experienced  juddering; particularly when the car had warmed up and when it 
was in low gears. She had another main dealer look at the car and they also identified 
juddering and agreed with the initial diagnosis. They suggested the tyres would need 
replacing too.
So, unable to persuade Close Brothers to take any further  action, Mrs S referred her 
complaint to this service  and our adjudicator reviewed the evidence. He noted  that the 
original selling dealership had identified  a problem with the car juddering only a couple of 
months after Mrs S had taken receipt  of the car. He understood that the independent  
engineer hadnt been  able to replicate the problem but he noted  that a second dealership 
had subsequently been able to identify the same issues Mrs S complained  of. He thought 
that it was therefore  more  likely than not that there  was a problem with Mrs Ss car and he 
suggested that Close Brothers  allow  her to terminate the agreement and return  it. 
Close Brothers didnt  agree and in the meantime Mrs S replaced all the tyres at her own 
expense. She said this improved the juddering but didnt entirely fix it and she therefore 
proceeded to settle her agreement with Close Brothers and return  the car. So another 
adjudicator at this service  had to decide how this changed the remedy that had been 
suggested. He thought  Close Brothers should  now return the deposit Mrs S had paid on the 
car and return one monthly finance  instalment in respect of the time shed been unable to 
use the car whilst it was in the garage  being  repaired. He also thought  it was clear thered 
been some  loss of enjoyment and he therefore recommended that Close  Brothers pay Mrs S 
£250 to compensate her for this and refund the cost of the tyres shed had to replace on the 
car.
But Close Brothers  didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They said the independent engineer 
hadnt been able to identify any faults with the car and that no repairs  had been carried  out 
on it. So they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26854352I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Close Brothers  so please let 
me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs S acquired her car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Close Brother, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory taking into account  any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car, the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs S. Its true that 
this car was nearly  ten years  old at the time and had covered more  than 90,000  miles. So a 
reasonable person would expect some  wear and tear. But I think  its unreasonable to expect 
a car to judder; even one of this age and mileage. 
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Close Brothers to put this right. 
Mrs S had the car for only a couple of months when she first complained about juddering. 
Legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car developed  a fault in the first six 
months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply. The relevant legislation 
says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
So I think its likely that any juddering reported  in July 2018 was present or developing when 
the finance agreement was put in place.
The independent inspector wasnt able to identify a problem with the car. But Im persuaded 
that there  most likely was one because:
the supplying  dealership suggested  there  was juddering and identified  the need  to 
replace tyres before the independent inspection  was completed
another main  dealership identified the juddering and proposed the same  resolution. 
This occurred after the independent inspection and would  suggest  the fault that was 
initially diagnosed  by the supplying  dealership  was still present
Mrs S replaced the tyres at her own expense and on the advice of these dealerships.  
I dont think she wouldve done so if she wasnt experiencing  a problem
Ref: DRN26854353I think its fair to say the dealerships  tests  were likely to be more  thorough  than the 
independent inspectors.  He only drove  the car for a limited mileage and the car was 
with the dealerships for more extended periods
I understand Close Brothers desire to have an independent inspection  as they may have 
needed that independent view to raise any counter claim against the supplying dealership. 
But thats not something I think  would be fair to require  of Mrs S. I think theres now 
adequate evidence to suggest there  was a fault with the car and that Close Brothers need  to 
do something to rectify the situation.
The car has now been returned  and the agreement settled. But Mrs Ss deposit hasnt been 
refunded to her and I think  it should be in the circumstances  as she wouldve needed it to 
fund a replacement  vehicle. Shes  also been inconvenienced by the matter and has had to 
drive a car which wasnt functioning  properly. So I agree that to compensate her for this 
Close Brothers should pay her £250.  Ive noted that the car was returned  to the garage on 
several occasions and in the circumstances I would agree that it would  be reasonable to 
return one monthly finance  instalment to compensate  Mrs S for her lack of use of the car.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
refund  the deposit Mrs S paid and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement
refund  one monthly finance instalment in respect of loss of use
pay Mrs S £250 compensation for her loss of enjoyment
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ss credit  file in respect of 
this issue
refund  the cost of the tyres Mrs S had to fit to the vehicle  on provision of the receipts 
from Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2685435