K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2002. Mr M says Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr M says he was not told that the PPI was optional   and that he feared LBS wouldnt 
grant him a mortgage unless he took out the policy. I cant be certain  what was said at 
the time,  but LBS has provided copies of Mr Ms paperwork that was completed when he 
applied for the mortgage  including his mortgage quotation, application form, and 
mortgage offer. Nothing in this paperwork suggests that the PPI isnt optional   or that a 
mortgage would be more likely to be approved by taking it out. And I can see that the 
mortgage application form gave three clear options  to take PPI (and to choose what 
level of cover was required), to say that the customer  already had PPI elsewhere, or to 
say that PPI was not required. Mr M has completed and signed the section requesting  
PPI cover and chose to take cover for accident  and sickness  only  selecting not to take 
unemployment cover.
So with what  Ive seen,  I think its more likely that LBS made it clear that Mr M didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
might not remember this as it happened  so long ago.
LBS recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that it was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. For example 
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems 
to have had a need for the cover. I appreciate  that Mr M was self-employed, but this 
wouldnt have affected his ability to claim for accident or sickness  so I dont think  this 
means the policy wasnt right for him.
Its possible the information LBS gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong as hes told 
us he wouldnt have  got any sick pay if hed been  too ill to work, and that he didnt have 
any savings. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means LBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But LBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
LBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because LBS didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN22826402To put that right, LBS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - but these points dont change  my decision  
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI premium. I understand it has already done this, 
so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2282640