K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  wont consider raising  a 
chargeback claim on her behalf.
background
Mrs H booked flights with an airline, I shall refer to as M, in June  2016  for travel in 
April 2017. She paid for the flights using her NatWest debit card.  
When M had to change the flights,  Mrs H had no alternative but to cancel her booking as she 
was unable to travel on the new dates offered. In February 2017,  M issued a credit voucher 
to Mrs H for future bookings  made before February 2018. 
In October  2017, M went  into administration. Mrs H visited  a local NatWest branch to submit  
a chargeback claim for goods  not received. After several weeks,  Mrs H said she received a 
letter from NatWest telling  her to pursue her claim with Ms administrator, which she did. A 
few months later the administrator  told her the claim was unsuccessful  and that she should 
pursue a claim through  NatWest. 
But NatWest  said it was unable to submit a chargeback claim because it didnt have any 
chargeback rights available for it to do so. It said that since  M had gone into administration  it 
had no one it could  chargeback against. But it did agree with Mrs H about the length of time 
taken to advise  her to submit a claim to the travel financial compensation scheme, A, and 
paid her £50 compensation for that. 
Dissatisfied with this response Mrs H brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator found that NatWest hadnt acted unreasonably in saying a chargeback  claim 
could not be made on the credit note provided  by M. She said while  Mrs H did pay for her 
original flight using  her debit card - unfortunately, the 120-calendar-day chargeback  time limit 
had already passed when  M ceased trading.  
Mrs H disagreed with this view and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She said, 
amongst other things,  that NatWest  should have told her to complain to A.I issued a 
provisional decision to Mrs H and NatWest on 28 May 2019. I said: 
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a debit or credit card, it might 
be possible  to recover the money paid through  a chargeback claim. Chargebacks are 
voluntary schemes  run by the card providers, and each provider has their own set of rules.  
Timescales for submitting  a chargeback  can vary from rule to rule and are usually quite  
strict. Its important  to note here that chargeback is a transaction reversal for a card 
payment.
did Mrs H have a chargeback right for the initial  flight?
I havent seen  a copy of the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs booking.  So I cant  be certain 
what obligation M had to Mrs H with respect to cancelling flights  or what  rights Mrs H had 
within those terms. It is possible  M was allowed to change the date of the flight  and the 
voucher was a reasonable alternative remedy. In which  case I consider it quite possible 
Mrs H may not have had a chargeback  right against the original  transaction. 
Ref: DRN21080102I cannot be sure that M advised Mrs H of alternative remedies to the cancelled  flights  e.g. 
chargeback. But I dont think its reasonable to have expected  NatWest,  at this stage, to 
have told Mrs H about the chargeback or its timescales as it is unlikely to have known the 
flights had been  cancelled unless Mrs H had told it at the time. And Ive seen no evidence 
she did so. 
had Mrs H raised a chargeback for the initial flight would she have  won?
Its not my role to decide if a chargeback would have been  successful  or not. But in deciding  
whats fair I can consider  whether its likely a chargeback wouldve  been successful. It is 
possible Mrs H could have requested a chargeback when the flight  was originally  cancelled  
but she accepted the voucher as a remedy. And as I havent seen the terms and conditions I 
dont know what rights Mrs H had that would allow her to refuse  the voucher as an 
alternative to the change  of dates. So while it is possible the chargeback  raised at the time 
the flights were cancelled could have been successful it is equally possible it may not have 
been. 
If Mrs H had raised a chargeback request based  on the original flight transaction  but done  so 
at the time M went into liquidation I consider it unlikely it would have succeeded.  
A bank  will usually only raise a chargeback claim on behalf of a customer  if it decided there 
was a reasonable likelihood of success.  It would then make the chargeback claim to the card 
scheme. So if NatWest did believe it had a right to make such a claim based  on the 
transaction with the debit card, I think it unlikely the card provider would uphold  it as the 
chargeback claim wouldve been made too late. 
In that situation  the reason code covering Ms Hs claim would be reason code 30  services  
not provided. The time scale relating  to this reason code is as set out in the card scheme 
chargeback rules:
 A Chargeback must be processed no later than either:
120 calendar days from the Transaction Processing  Date
If the merchandise  or services were  to be provided after the Transaction 
Processing Date, 120 calendar  days from the last date that the Cardholder 
expected to receive the merchandise or services or the date that the 
Cardholder was first made  aware  that the merchandise  or services would 
not be provided, not to exceed  540 calendar  days from the Transaction 
Processing Date.
As Mrs H became aware  that M had cancelled her flights in or around January 2017 so it 
was at this moment she couldve considered  a chargeback claim against the card 
transaction, rather than the voucher. She would  then have had 120 calendar days from when  
she was first made aware  that the flights were cancelled to make  her claim. Her credit  note 
voucher was issued  on 7 February 2017 so in order to be within 120 days she wouldve had 
to request a chargeback by 6 June. 
did Mrs H have a chargeback right for the voucher?
Mrs H bought her flights in June 2016  for travel  in April 2017 using her card which identifies 
this transaction  as being the one establishing the payment relationship  between  Mrs H, 
NatWest and the card scheme. The voucher was not provided by NatWest  or the card 
provider, nor was it a card transaction.  
Ref: DRN21080103I have considered the eligibility of the voucher from the position that it represents the 
purchase of flights from the original  card transaction. But again as I havent seen the terms 
and conditions I cant be sure M didnt have  the right to change the dates. Where evidence is 
missing I must make my decision  based on the balance  of probability, that is what  I believe 
most likely to have happened. And I think its more  likely it did have the right to change the 
dates (although Id expect  some remedy to be available in such circumstances  such as 
alternative dates or a voucher). As Mrs H did not accept the alternative dates and chose 
instead to accept a voucher for future  flights Im not persuaded the voucher does represent 
the purchase of flights from the original card transaction. 
So Im satisfied NatWest did not have a right to make a claim  in relation to the inability to use 
the voucher.
is there a business  to bring the chargeback  to?
NatWest has said that in Mrs Hs case it doesnt have a chargeback right because there is 
no business to bring  the chargeback to. When M stopped trading  in October 2017 it went 
into administration. The administrator will try to pay as many  debts as possible. This would 
include any customers who were potential creditors. So I dont agree that there was no 
business to raise the chargeback with. 
Mrs H explained to the investigator that it wasnt until April 2018 that she was told she 
needed to contact A. And had she been  told by NatWest to do this earlier she may have had 
a positive resolution. She also said it wasnt her decision to change  the flights  but the airline  
cancelling them so her actions were not whimsical. I can see that this situation has caused 
Mrs H a lot of frustration and upset and this is understandable. She has lost money through 
no fault of her own. But it doesnt  necessarily follow that I can hold NatWest accountable for 
it. 
As I dont believe NatWest was in a position to help Mrs H with a chargeback claim after M 
went into administration I dont think any advice  given by NatWest regarding putting  a claim 
in with A wouldve changed this position.  
NatWest gave no further comment on my provisional decision. Mrs H responded with some 
remarks which I have summarised  below.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and have thought  very carefully about both 
the initial transaction, the voucher and the various remedies. 
I realise this will come  as a disappointment to Mrs H, but having done so I believe my 
provisional decision still stands and I wont be asking NatWest to do anything  further.  
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Mrs H said she was given no option of an 
alternative flight by M at the time. She said she wasnt  aware she was within her rights as a 
consumer to refuse a voucher and then pursue  a chargeback claim for goods/services not 
received. But in her original complaint  Mrs H said M changed the flights  and she had to 
cancel as no alternative was offered that matched her ski package dates. She said plus or 
Ref: DRN21080104minus one day would have been manageable. As a result, M gave her a credit  voucher 
instead. 
As I said in my provisional findings,  I havent  seen a copy of the terms and conditions  of 
Mrs Hs original booking. Its possible M was within its rights to change  the date of the flight  
and Mrs H has accepted  it did offer her alternative  dates. M could also be well within its 
rights to issue a voucher  as a reasonable alternative  remedy.  Mrs H hasnt provided any 
additional evidence,  so I am unable to conclude with any degree of certainty that M didnt act 
within its rights when  it did that. 
Im saying that on the balance of probability  M probably did have the right to offer alternative 
dates which  Mrs H refused, so it had the right to issue  a voucher as a substitute.  And my 
opinion is that the voucher then doesnt represent  the initial transaction  which was for certain 
flights at certain times. 
Its possible that at the time M had to cancel the flights Mrs H wouldve had the option to 
seek a chargeback. But, as I said in my provisional  decision, unless  NatWest  was made 
aware of the situation with the cancelled flights,  I dont think  its reasonable to have expected 
it to have told Mrs H about  the chargeback and the time limits involved.
Mrs H went on to say that she felt NatWest was liable  for her loss, as it didnt advise her 
appropriately. She said she would have been  within the set time limit if NatWests  poor 
advice hadnt  delayed her seeking a claim from the correct  company. She also said NatWest  
couldve pursued Ms administrators on her behalf  following  her initial  attempt. 
Mrs H said NatWest first advised her to pursue the administrators, and Im satisfied this was 
the correct advice under the circumstances.  The administrator  will seek  to pay as many 
debts as possible, and in this case the relevant relationship was between  Mrs H and the 
administrator. I wouldnt expect, nor do I think it would it be reasonable to expect, NatWest to 
pursue the administrator on Mrs Hs behalf.
Mrs H said she has been a loyal NatWest  customer for 40 years and would expect some 
loyalty and goodwill in return. I certainly  appreciate this sentiment, and I understand this 
situation must be frustrating for Mrs H. But Im satisfied that NatWest hasnt done anything  
wrong beyond  the delay  in it advising Mrs H to apply to A for redress.  So, unfortunately, Im 
unable to award compensation to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2108010