K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr M made a complaint that they were mis-sold a Mortgage  Payment Protection 
Insurance (MPPI) policy with their joint mortgage  back in 1989. Britannia  Building Society 
sold the mortgage and MPPI but The Co-operative Bank Plc is now responsible.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Co-op Bank.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD), summary  attached, in August 2019, comprehensively 
setting out why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I asked both parties  to provide 
any further submissions or information  to me within one month.  
my findings
I received replies  about my PD from both the parties. And Ive reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
Im very grateful in particular to Miss M for the time taken to respond to my PD. The gist of 
what I said in my PD was really two fold. 
The first issue concerned Miss M and Mr Ms compliant point  that they essentially didnt 
know much  about PPI and that the member  of staff failed to adequately explain it. Broadly, 
the allegation was that Miss M and Mr M didnt really agree to the PPI cover  because they 
didnt understand  it. However in my PD I disagreed with this. And Im afraid  the response Ive 
received from Miss M doesnt do anything to further her and Mr Ms original allegation.  
The fact is, in my view, that theres solid and reliable  evidence  of them engaging in the 1989 
PPI sale process and formally agreeing to buy the policy  with their mortgage because  it was 
something they wanted to have. I also noted and explained in the PD that Mr M had 
corresponded with the business several  times after the sale to seek information about  
extending and widening  the PPI cover and he also went on to cancel it, in 2004. I thought  
and still do think - this adds considerable weight to him not only knowing about the policy,  
but managing  it a way that fitted  their ongoing  and changing circumstances over the years. 
I accept they genuinely  may not remember all this now but after 30 years Im not surprised.  
The documentary evidence is very clear though  they both agreed to the policy.
The second  major point  I addressed in my PD related to Miss Ms health. I had disagreed 
with our adjudicator  that we should  uphold the complaint on this basis.  In no way do I wish to 
imply that her health wasnt important  to her or that she hasnt been ill, but Miss Ms central 
allegation in this respect was that she was suffering  or had suffered from a significant pre-
existing medical  condition at the time of the PPI sale and so was at risk of not being able to 
make a successful claim on the policy.
However Miss M had said on the questionnaire we gave her to fill out that she had never 
taken any time off work or been  prescribed any medication for this condition. She also 
signed a declaration at the time of the sale saying she hadnt seen a doctor in the previous 
12 months.
Ref: DRN26602622Not unreasonably then, our service had asked for some evidence  or at least more 
information about the condition. She didnt provide any so the PD I issued asked her again  
for anything  that might  help show this illness existed or that it did actually coincide with the 
1989 PPI sale.  Miss M has been  unable to provide that evidence  or any such  information 
and thinks it unreasonable we have  asked. But Im afraid I cant agree. To me, the illness  
alleged is potentially chronic and a substantial  condition  that would be likely to reoccur.  I 
asked for any supporting  evidence or information at all, but because it hasnt been provided I 
cant say that it was something that affected her decision to jointly  buy the PPI with her 
husband in 1989.
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M and Mr M. The evidence points to them properly 
agreeing the PPI in several ways.  Ive thought very carefully about the illness Miss M says 
she had but these events were  30 years ago and the testimony  given isnt consistent 
enough. Theres no evidence the condition alleged coincided with or affected the decision to 
buy the PPI.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss M and Mr Ms complaint.  And dont require The Co-operative  Bank  Plc to 
pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26602623copy  provisional  decision
Ive considered the relevant  information about this complaint. But based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering substantially departing from what our adjudicator has said about upholding it. 
Im currently  thinking about not upholding the complaint.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 1 October 2019.  But unless  the information  
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final decisions will be 
published on our website. 
So that the consumers arent identified, Ill call them Miss M and Mr M (although my understanding is 
that The Official Receiver is dealing with Mr Ms financial affairs). 
complaint
Miss M and Mr M made a complaint that they were mis-sold a Mortgage Payment Protection  
Insurance (MPPI) policy with their joint mortgage, back in 1989.  Britannia Building Society sold the 
mortgage and MPPI but The Co-operative  Bank  Plc is now responsible.
To keep things simple  Ill refer mainly  to Co-op Bank
background
One of our adjudicators  assessed  this complaint and provided Miss M and Mr M with a view.  He 
thought the complaint ought  to be upheld.
But Co-op  Bank hasnt agreed with this and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im afraid I dont agree with our adjudicator and Im currently thinking  about  not 
upholding the complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss M and Mr M but Ill explain why this is.
I certainly dont doubt Miss M and Mr M now honestly and genuinely believe they were  [mis]- sold this 
policy. However, I note their points of complaint relate to them not really understanding the process 
at the time and being quite young. They dont feel they asked for MPPI.
Nevertheless, Ive seen  that at the point of sale, they did both fill out and sign a form about  MPPI 
which would have enabled them to see it wasnt something they were  required to buy. I can also see 
they filled out a direct  debit mandate  to authorise the payments for the MPPI to be made from their 
bank account and they would have seen the cost. Finally, I note that there was quite a bit of 
correspondence between  Mr M and Co-op Bank around 1995  which shows clearly to me that the 
MPPI cover was something he and Miss M knew about and probably wanted to continue having.
So Im afraid all this, taken  together, provides solid evidence in my view that Miss M and Mr M had 
properly consented  to this type of cover and that they wanted it because  they probably  thought it 
could be of use in the event of unexpected events such as losing their jobs or becoming too ill to 
work.
However, our adjudicator was told by Miss M that she had medical  conditions prior to and at the time 
of her and Mr M taking out the MPPI. The adjudicator thought  that this might have made  claiming 
very difficult for Miss M. 
Ref: DRN26602624I think  thats right because  the MPPI did come with particular rules  and restrictions about  pre-existing  
medical conditions. But I do also bear in mind  that these events were some  30 years ago and the 
mortgage in question was also closed many years ago too. Looking at what  Miss M has said about  
her illnesses, I dont think its clear  they coincided with the 1989 MPPI sale. And I think  some of her 
recollections, albeit understandably, are somewhat  vague after such  a long time.  
Co-op Bank, on the other hand, has agreed to consider  Miss Ms pre-existing conditions because  it 
does acknowledge claiming for them would have probably not been possible under  the policy  rules. It 
says it wrote to her and asked  for clarification  and some actual evidence that they did indeed exist at 
the time of the MPPI sale. It says it didnt get any more  information  back  from her.
So to help our understanding of what Miss M was saying about her health we too asked her for some 
medical evidence and information but she hasnt been able to provide any.
As I say, I accept this was all a long time ago. However,  the medical problems disclosed  to us do 
seem to be ones that are chronic and would have persisted for some considerable  time. So 
unfortunately I dont find it credible that no recorded notes or medical evidence  can be found  to help 
show that these conditions are relevant to this case. Nor do I think it unreasonable that we should 
seek clarification from Miss M about pre-existing  medical conditions she says she had when she and 
Mr M took out the MPPI. And if she can furnish any evidence at all, I will obviously look carefully at it.
As regards  the other aspects of the case, Co-op  Bank says this was a non-advised sale.  This means  
it had a duty to provide  Miss M and Mr M with enough  information for them to decide  for themselves  
about what they wanted  to do. 
Ive seen evidence that the cost was probably disclosed to them and I was also sent the type of 
MPPI information sheet Miss M and Mr M would  probably  have been given at the time. Additionally,  
Ive already said there was a known dialog between the parties  in the mid-90s about the MPPI 
policy.
I cant  say that Miss M and Mr M were told everything they ought to have been told or that the 
business did everything right during  this sale.  But they seem to have  been eligible  for the cover in all 
other respects and not caught by any of the other major  exclusions we tend to see in these policies.  
Miss M said she and Mr M already had some sickness protection with their jobs. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the cover  wasnt of use. I think their mortgage  would have been  a significant  and 
long-term financial commitment and secured against  their home. So the consequences of them not 
being able to make the repayments could have been serious. 
So I think its more likely that the MPPI was tailored to suit their needs of the time and I dont 
currently think  it was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Miss M and Mr Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN2660262