K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he was led to believe his life and critical illness insurance policy with 
Legal & General Assurance Society  Limited would cover him if he was unable to work 
because of his bipolar disorder, but hes been  told this isnt right.
background
Through an independent financial advisor, Mr W took out a life and critical illness  policy with 
Legal & General. On his application form, he said that hed been previously diagnosed with 
bipolar disorder. Legal & General offered him cover of £20,000 over 18 years,  with an 
additional premium  to take account  of his and his familys  medical history.
Mr W made a claim on his policy when he found  his disorder  meant  that he couldnt work. 
But Legal  & General told him that it didnt cover  him for this.
Mr W complained  as he felt he should be covered, or he should receive a refund of the 
premiums that hed paid for the policy. 
Legal & General said that it hadnt ever said to Mr W that he was covered specifically for 
bipolar disorder. However, it said it would pay a valid claim should  Mr Ws bipolar disorder 
lead to one of the conditions the policy did cover him for. Legal & General said Mr Ws 
application was completed by an independent financial adviser, and it had acted on the 
instructions and application that was submitted. It referred Mr W back  to his advisor as it said 
it wasnt responsible  for the guidance or advice he was given.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint but didnt think that Legal & General  had 
done anything  wrong. He said it wasnt responsible for the advice Mr W received  to take out 
the policy, and he didnt think Legal  & General had given Mr W any wrong information about 
the cover  his policy gave  him. 
Mr W didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear about the difficult times  Mr W has been experiencing. I can appreciate 
how learning that his policy wont provide him with the cover  he wanted for his health will 
have been frustrating and upsetting, particularly when he gave the details of his bipolar 
disorder from the outset.
Ive taken into account everything hes told us and Ive listened to the recordings of the calls 
between him and Legal & General. I acknowledge that Mr W has told us that there were 
more conversations than just these however Ive listened to all the calls that Legal & General 
has been able to find. And I think these, along with his policy  documentation,  give a 
reasonable representation of what Legal  & General told Mr W about  his policy  and the cover 
it gave him. 
I can see that Legal & General considered Mr Ws medical history and that of his family 
when assessing  his application  for the insurance.  And this included his bipolar disorder. So it 
Ref: DRN23386472was something that did affect his medical  history for Legal & General to take into account  
when offering him life and critical illness insurance. This meant that it needed him to pay a 
higher premium than the original amount hed been quoted. This is called a medical 
loading. But this didnt  mean that the policy provided him with cover if his bipolar disorder 
meant that he couldnt work. 
And Legal & General has explained to Mr W that he would be covered for a valid claim under 
the policy terms  his bipolar disorder wouldnt invalidate such a claim as Mr W had told 
Legal & General about it when he made  his application. I havent seen that Legal & General 
specifically confirmed to Mr W that the policy covered  him if his bipolar disorder worsened or 
left him unable to work and his policy documentation  doesnt say this. 
I can see that Mr Ws type of policy included the possibility of adding cover  for Total and 
permanent disability. The policy terms defined this as being unable to do your own 
occupation ever again.  But Mr Ws policy didnt include  this.
Overall, I dont  think Legal & General has mis-represented  the benefits of Mr Ws policy  to 
him, or told him that he would be covered  if his bipolar disorder meant that he was unable  to 
work. 
I can see why he may think he did have this cover, when he took it out wanting  financial 
protection if his health deteriorated. He was clear from the start that he had bipolar disorder 
and this was part of the reason Legal  & General applied a higher premium for his policy. The 
policy didnt give him cover for him having this disorder but would pay out the sum assured 
should he die; or be diagnosed with a terminal illness or a critical  illness as defined  within  the 
policy conditions. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2338647