K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy to go with a mortgage in 1993.  The mortgage  was settled in 
December 1995.
background 
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 14 December 2018, which is attached  and 
forms part of my final decision.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Mr Ds and the Business have confirmed that they 
have received my provisional decision.  Neither Mr D nor the Business have submitted any 
further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We have set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Ds case.
I assume that Mr D does not accept my decision.  But neither the Business nor Mr D has 
presented anything new for me to consider,  and I dont see any reason to go behind my 
findings in my provisional decision. So, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above and in my provisional  decision, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint 
against Nationwide Buildings Society.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29853752copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1993.
background
Mr D bought  a PPI policy  at the same time he took out a mortgage in 1993. If Mr D hadnt been able 
to work  because of accident, sickness or redundancy the policy wouldve covered  his monthly 
mortgage repayments for up to two years at a time.
Mr D has said, amongst  other  things,  that he didnt need the PPI but was told the policy was 
mandatory.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
For the avoidance  of doubt, this decision concerns Mr Ds PPI he took out with Nationwide in 1993 to 
protect a mortgage taken  out at the same time. If Mr D would like to complain  about any other policy 
he may have  taken out then Mr D must first complain to the relevant business  before bringing his 
complaint to this service (if he is not happy with the response).  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Having considered  all the evidence  in this case, I can see that Mr Ds mortgage was taken  out in 
1993. The Mortgage was redeemed in December 1995 when the PPI was also cancelled. I proceed 
on this basis.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
Whilst I do not doubt what  Mr D has us is his honest and best recollection of what took place,  I do not 
think his account is sufficiently detailed  or strong. It seems most likely  to me that Mr D may no longer 
have a detailed recollection of the sale in 1993. This is understandable. This sale occurred  around 20 
years ago.
Neither party  has kept all the documents from the sale, which isnt surprising given that it happened 
more than 20 years ago. So I make  my decision  based on the available evidence and what  I know of 
Nationwides practises at the time. 
Nationwide say that Mr D was borrowing more than 90% of the value of his property and this meant 
that Nationwide made it a condition of the mortgage that Mr D took PPI to cover the repayments if Mr 
D couldnt work. Nationwide has provided a sample mortgage application  form which it says Mr D 
wouldve completed  at the time. It shows that the PPI was optional,  but only if the applicants were  
borrowing less than 90% of the value of the property. I think it likely  Nationwide made  this clear to Mr 
D and had he not wanted to go ahead under these circumstances he couldve sought a mortgage with 
another provider. So, having considered  all the evidence, I think  its likely Mr D chose to take the 
policy knowing that he couldve gone elsewhere for their mortgage if he didnt want  to take the PPI. 
Ref: DRN29853753Nationwide didnt provide a personalised recommendation to Mr D about  the PPI. So it didnt need to 
take reasonable  steps  to check that it was right for him. But it still had to make sure he had enough  
information to make his own decision about the PPI. 
Its not clear exactly what information Mr D was given and it is possible Mr D didnt get everything he 
ideally shouldve. But I dont think  this wouldve made a difference to his decision to take the policy 
because:
Mr D was eligible for the cover and it doesnt seem  that he was affected  by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim  to the extent it would  
have impacted upon his decision to take out the PPI. I have seen evidence  that Mr D had a 
medical condition when he took out the PPI but I think Mr D wanted this policy and I dont 
currently think this condition would have impacted on his ability  to carry  out his job or his 
decision to take out the PPI;
Mr D says he had good sick pay, so he didnt need the PPI. But Nationwide didnt give him 
any advice about this - it was up to Mr D to decide whether  his existing cover was enough. 
And I think Mr D wouldve understood enough to know he was buying  insurance to cover his 
repayments if Mr D was sick or made redundant.  I also think  the PPI would have given Mr D 
additional peace of mind in relation to an important financial commitment;
Similarly, Mr D says he had some  savings,  so wouldnt have needed the policy even if Mr D 
was completely out of work.  But, again, it was up to Mr D to decide if his savings were 
enough.
I notice  that the policy had a 90 day waiting period before Mr D could  make a claim. I think its 
possible Nationwide didnt  make  this clear  to Mr D. But as Mr D had enough sick pay to cover 
this period fully, and also some  savings, I dont think this wouldve  changed  his mind  about  
buying the policy;
It isnt clear how the cost was explained to Mr D. Ive not seen anything to suggest the policy 
was unaffordable for him and the cost of the PPI was comparable to other similar  polices 
available at the time.
Mr D says he could have relied upon his familys support  if he didnt  have any other way of 
making his repayments if he needed to. But this cannot  be guaranteed  and I think  hed have 
soon found it difficult to meet all his expenses  if he lost his job or was unable to work.  So 
I think the policy offered  a useful benefit.
So although its possible Mr D didnt  get all the information he ideally should have been given  I dont 
think more,  or better, information wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy it. So I dont 
currently think  Mr D lost out as a result of anything Nationwide mightve  done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ns complaint.
I now invite  all parties to give me any further information they want me to consider before I make my 
final decision.  This must be provided  to us by 14 January 2019. 
Marie Lewiecki
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2985375