K820x#14complaint
Mr W says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  on a credit  card.
background
Mr W bought the policy  in 1998, at the same  time as applying for a credit card through a 
postal application.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think RBS made it clear that Mr W didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ws application  from 1998 and he had to actively  tick to take out 
PPI. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. I say 
this because Mr W applied for the credit  card and PPI through  a postal application. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that RBS assessed  Mr Ws individual circumstances such  as his 
employee benefits, other insurances and ability to meet his repayments if he was unable  to 
work and from this provided  a tailored recommendation for PPI.
Mr W has concerns  that the application form stated We strongly  recommend  you take out 
this cover.  For cover just tick this box. Mr W says that this implies  RBS gave advice.
As I explained earlier, RBS didnt formally assess Mr Ws circumstances. While I understand 
Mr Ws concerns,  having looked at the statement I consider that RBS was making  more  of a 
general statement, encouraging consumers to consider whether or not they could meet their 
repayments if they died, were  unable to work through  an accident or sickness  or if they lost 
their job. Its quite possible that Mr W thought  that protecting his repayments, if he was 
unable to work, was important and ticked to take out the cover  as it was something that he 
thought could have been of use to him at the time.  
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have 
been. But Im satisfied that Mr W chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable to Mr W at the time.
Ref: DRN26457282Mr W cant recall the sick pay he would have  received from his employer if he was unable to 
work because of an accident  or sickness. Given the time that has passed I dont find that 
surprising. In the event of a successful claim the PPI would  have covered 10% of the 
outstanding credit card balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr W was off work because 
of an accident  or sickness or if he became unemployed.  The policy also included  life cover. 
So I think it provided a useful benefit especially if Mr W was off work for a lengthy period as 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to any work  benefits he received.
Mr W says he held another insurance  policy that he could have relied on. But that policy was 
to protect  his mortgage repayments. This PPI policy would have protected  Mr Ws card 
repayments. So this doesnt change my opinion. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have  been useful for Mr W if something went  wrong. And I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
All things  considered, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means RBS doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said - including what he has said about the sale of 
the PPI and his circumstances  at the time. But, for the reasons above, these points dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. RBS should also pay back to Mr W any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr W the difference  between 
what Mr W owes and what  he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should also pay Mr W 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN26457283Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2645728