K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss G say HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr N and Miss G bought the policy in 2004 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the policy provided cover for Mr N alone. It 
covered him for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £550 a month towards Mr N and Miss Gs mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £32.67  a month. 
At the time,  Mr N was employed  as a distribution  driver. He has told us he was entitled  to 
sick pay (between six and 12 months) and at least three months redundancy pay from his 
employer. He has also told us he had an accident  and sickness policy  with another provider 
which would have paid out £1000 a month  for 12 months. Mr N has said he didnt have any 
health problems  at the time of the sale.
Although the policy was in Mr Ns name  alone, as the mortgage  was in joint names, I have  
also considered  Miss Gs circumstances at the time of the sale.
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2007. 
Mr N and Miss Gs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr N and Miss Gs representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr N and Miss G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr N and 
Miss Gs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr N and Miss G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr N and Miss G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN29006542The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr N and Miss G received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr N and Miss G disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr N and Miss Gs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr N and Miss Gs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN29006543The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr N and 
Miss Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr N and Miss Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr N and Miss G with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mr N and Miss G sufficient,  appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN29006544-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr N 
and Miss G, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr N and Miss 
G suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair compensation 
for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr N and Miss 
G and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr N and Miss Gs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr N and Miss  G know  they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the financial  planning review documents from the time of the sale. There  
is nothing in these  to suggest  PPI was compulsory. Instead I can see that the representative  
made various recommendations and that Miss G declined to take PPI whereas Mr N 
appears to have chosen to take it out. Ive also seen a copy  of the mortgage  offer and again 
there is nothing on here to indicate that Mr N and Miss G would have had to take PPI to get 
the mortgage. And although I note what Mr N and Miss G say about being pressured, I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to conclude that HSBC did pressure Mr N and 
Miss G into taking  PPI  again particularly given that Miss G decided not to take it out.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr N and Miss G knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Both HSBC  and Mr N and Miss G agree that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr N and Miss G with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr N and Miss G. The adviser had information about some of Mr N and Miss Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a financial planning review 
was completed to try and establish whether Mr N and Miss G had a need for the policy   by 
asking questions about their wider  circumstances such as any health issues  and existing 
means  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. This is because  I dont 
think the questions  asked were wide enough to always elicit the responses that would be 
required for the representative to be able to properly advise Mr N and Miss G.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr N and Miss G given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN29006545While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr N and Miss G, I do think  its more  likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr N met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr N and Miss G had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr N and Miss Gs 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if Mr N was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits/sick pay he says he would have been entitled to. I note what Mr 
N has told us about his accident  and sickness policy. However, no further details 
have been provided  about this  such as when  this actually  started, what  the 
deferment period  was (if any), when it ended. And further,  it doesnt appear  that Mr N 
informed the advisor  of the existence  of this policy during the financial planning 
review meeting. So I cant say its more  likely  that Mr N actually had the benefits  of 
this policy at the time the PPI policy was sold to him. In any event, I also note that 
this other  policy doesnt appear to have provided  unemployment cover  for Mr N, 
unlike the PPI policy. Mr N has also told us about  death  in service benefit  he had 
equal to two times his salary, however, this was a very different type of benefit  to PPI 
and didnt affect the suitability of the recommendation to take PPI.
-Although Mr N and Miss G say they were financially  stretched at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr N and Miss G. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ns employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr N and Miss 
Gs circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr N and Miss G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr N and Miss G were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr N was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr N and Miss 
G would have taken  out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr N and Miss G agreed  to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN29006546Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr N and Miss G Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr N and Miss G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr N and Miss Gs representative  has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr N and 
Miss Gs. Ive considered  these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr N and Miss Gs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr N and Miss G about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr N and Miss Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr N and Miss G have suggested. And taking into account  the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that HSBC ought  to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr N and Miss G? To what extent did 
Mr N and Miss G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr N and 
Miss G. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr N and Miss G suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr N and Miss G would  have still taken out the policy,  had HSBC done  things  
properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr N and Miss G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr N and Miss G have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if HSBC  had explained  things 
properly, Mr N and Miss G would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN29006547Mr N and Miss G say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr N and Miss G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
N was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr N and Miss Gs 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr N and Miss G knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, it doesnt  appear  HSBC told them  the exact premium at the 
point Mr N and Miss G applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr N and Miss 
G would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with HSBC at the time, or reconsidered  their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr N and Miss G would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr N and Miss G would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr N and 
Miss Gs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr N and Miss G thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which occurred  in the first 
12 months of the policy for which treatment had been given,  or diagnosis had been 
made, or investigations commenced during the 12 months  immediately before the 
start date. It also excluded claims for any serious  or continuing  medical condition Mr 
N already had; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr N  
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN29006548I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr N and Miss G pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr N and Miss G from taking out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr N and Miss Gs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr N was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr N wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr N didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr N would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, the accident or sickness needed to have stopped  Mr N from 
working in his employment.  I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  he would 
have expected to make a claim.  It seems unlikely he would have thought hed been able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working.
HSBC may not have  told Mr N and Miss G that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr N is likely to have received full sick pay for and 
his redundancy  entitlement is likely to have  been  less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr N and Miss G would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr N be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr N sick pay or redundancy money 
for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr N and Miss G would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr N was made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr N and Miss G would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr N and Miss Gs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN29006549That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr N and Miss G would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr N and Miss 
Gs circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr N 
and Miss G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would  
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr N and Miss G believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr N and Miss G in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mr N and Miss G compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr N and Miss G think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information HSBC gave Mr N and Miss G, 
in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2004 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr N and Miss Gs representative says a court might  
take if it were to find HSBC negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr N and Miss G and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that HSBC  had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr N and Miss G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN290065410my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss G 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900654