K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains about handling  of her pet insurance claims by Zenith Insurance plc.
My references to Zenith include its agent.  
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said that I was likely to uphold the complaint in part, and I include an extract 
from my decision here:
Mrs Ms dog became  ill and required a number of investigations and vet treatment. Mrs M 
made claims  to Zenith, including a pre-authorisation  request. 
Zenith asked for some additional information from Mrs Ms vet. After a few months it did pay 
the claims but not the amount Mrs M had expected. There was some confusion  about the 
deductions. Mrs M complained about Zeniths handling of the matter and the time taken to 
deal with her claims. She said shed incurred credit  card interest because  the treatment 
began in August  but Zenith  didnt  finalise the claims until December. 
Zenith said that it had needed information from the vet and based its claims decisions on the 
information available to it. When the vet submitted new information  it agreed to pay the 
claims. It accepted there was some  confusion about its co-payment deduction, and paid 
Mrs M £30 compensation  for that. Mrs M wasnt happy with Zeniths  response  so she came 
to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ms complaint. Having  done so he thought  Zenith had 
handled the claims fairly and within a reasonable amount of time. In a detailed letter he set 
out the timescales in which Zenith  had assessed the claims and made  its decisions.  There 
had been confusion about the co-payment deduction but he though  the £30 compensation 
was fair. Our investigator said that in view of his findings about the claims handling he didnt 
think Zenith should have to pay Mrs Ms credit card interest. 
Mrs M asked  for a review,  explaining her concerns about the way pet insurance  in 
particular her policy  operates  for consumers.  
developments
I asked our investigator to get some more  information  from Zenith. It wasnt clear to me that 
the claim should be treated as two separate  conditions. Zenith agreed to deduct  only one 
excess and to adjust  the co-payment,  offering an additional £76.50 to Mrs M. 
Our investigator put that offer to Mrs M, but she didnt think it was enough to resolve the 
complaint. She explained shed paid the vets bills. But she said she should be compensated 
for her time and expenses in pursuing  the complaint with Zenith.  Shes self-employed and so 
she took away from her own business to pursue  the complaint, together with the stress this 
matter has caused  her. She estimated ten eight-hour  days at £20 an hour, and she 
suggested a figure of £1,600 compensation  in addition to the £76.50. 
Ref: DRN25357562my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it in 
part.
Many pet insurance  policies work  on a pay and claim  basis - the consumer pays the vet bill 
and then claims the money from the insurance company. There are some policies where 
accredited vets can claim their fees direct from the insurance company. Im not a regulator  
and I wont make any findings on Mrs Ms wider concerns about the way the pet insurance 
market operates.  I will consider the individual circumstances of Mrs Ms complaint to assess  
whether Zenith treated  her fairly.  
The Zenith policy required pre-authorisation of vets fees of more than £1,000. Mrs Ms vet 
attempted to pre-authorise  treatment. But I accept  this was an unusual case  and Zenith  
didnt have enough information to authorise  the treatment. Zenith correctly didnt turn down  
the claim on the basis it wasnt pre-authorised, given the attempt to pre-authorise.  It was 
both an emergency  situation and an unusual case.  An insurer would  have to show that any 
failure to pre-authorise  treatment had prejudiced its position if it was to turn down  a claim for 
lack of pre-authorisation.
The dogs usual  vet and the specialist  vet initially thought the signs  and symptoms of the 
dogs illness were heart related and that the foreign bodies found  in the dogs stomach  were  
an incidental  finding. 
It turned out that the dogs  vets found the foreign bodies had caused the dogs symptoms, 
which resolved when they were removed. Given the weight  of the vets evidence, I thought it 
was fair for Zenith to treat this as one claim, subject to one excess. Its agreed to this now 
and I think the offer it has made of £76.50  is fair. 
I should say that in some circumstances a consumer  would prefer  an insurer to treat a claim 
for vets fees under two separate conditions. This is because each condition has a per 
condition benefit  limit, and so the consumer would be able to claim up to the benefit limit for 
each condition. 
Ive looked closely  at whether Zenith  took a fair approach in assessing the claim, and 
whether it should  reasonably have made its decision to pay the claim earlier. 
Ref: DRN25357563the pre-authorisation  request
On 7 August  2018 Zenith emailed the pre-authorisation  form, which needed information both 
from the dogs  usual vet and the specialist vet. The heart investigation cost fell below  the 
£1,000 pre-authorisation  limit and Zenith said the claim covered a wide range of 
investigations. It also had concerns about  the pre-existing heart condition (which  might not 
be covered). It asked  for further information  and Mrs M asked the vets to liaise with each 
other. She was upset  and also concerned about whether the estimated £3,000  costs  were 
covered under the policy. Zenith asked for estimates for the cough and possible zinc toxicity.  
But the dog needed urgent treatment, so Mrs M then submitted a claim.
I dont think Zenith delayed or was unreasonable in asking for information to assess whether 
it could authorise the treatment. It was entitled  to check about the dogs symptoms. 
the claim
On 23 August 2018 Zenith received the claim form for dyspnoea/lethargy for an amount of 
£2,819. It acknowledged receipt  to Mrs M and said it would review within five working days,  
which it did. On 29 August it asked the vet whether there was a single condition  or multiple 
conditions. On 4 September  Zenith  chased  the vet for a response,  noting that there  
appeared to be a number of conditions. Zenith asked the vet to split the invoice for the 
condition being  claimed. On 6 September it told Mrs M it hadnt had a response, and needed 
the vets information to progress the claim. 
On 12 September  Zenith received the split invoice and sent it for assessment. This showed 
the amount claimed split into three separate conditions: metallic objects in the stomach, 
heart murmur and cough/lethargy. On 17 September the claim was assessed  and Zenith 
called the vet to ask for the lab reports and whether there had been a conclusion about  the 
cause of the lethargy. The vet responded to say that the signs of lethargy had resolved and 
the dog was no longer coughing,  and also that it was challenging to give a diagnosis.  The 
vet asked Zenith to email  or call for more information. 
On 19 September  Zenith declined the claim as it said it did not have enough information to 
assess it, pending further information  from the vet (though the vet had offered more 
information if requested). It might  have helped if Zenith had called. But it seems Zenith didnt  
know whether there was a cardiac cause.  It explained the position to Mrs M and 
I understand she referred this to her vet. 
On 24 September  Zenith received a review letter from the vet. The vet explained in summary 
that the dogs  condition  had been an emergency  with coughing, lethargy and rapid 
breathing. The vet summarised the investigations and explained  that at that point the best 
answer was that the symptoms were caused  by mitral valve  disease,  and asked  the 
information to be sent to Zeniths claim assessor.  On 28 September Zenith acknowledged 
the email, asking for the vets information  on headed paper and signed by the vet. It said it 
would review its decision within six to eight weeks, but with no guarantee of overturning the 
decision.
On 4 October Mrs Ms vet emailed her following her chaser to the vet. The vet explained 
what Zenith had asked for and about  the time scale  for assessment. 
On 11 October Mrs M asked Zenith for an update and whether it had received the 
information requested  from the vet. On 12 October  Zenith told Mrs M the reassessment letter 
Ref: DRN25357564had been received, acknowledged the inconvenience and said it would try to give her an 
update by 8 November 2018.  
On 5 November  Zenith  said it had reviewed the case but stood  by its decision to decline on 
it. Based  on the vets evidence it said it was most likely the diagnostic testing was for clinical  
signs of mitral valve disease,  and that it was linked to the heart  murmur first noted in 2013  
so it was a pre-existing  condition and not covered  by the policy. Mrs M replied to say that 
shed be complaining and submitting new evidence. She asked for all communications about  
the claim.  On 13 November 2018 Zenith said it had received new vets evidence and would 
review this and given a decision on the reassessment by 11 December 2018.
The vet gave a very detailed  explanation of the investigations and concluded that the 
metallic objects in the dogs stomach appeared to be the principal  cause of the clinical  signs 
displayed by the dog on 9 August. The vet said sorry for any ambiguity  caused by their 
earlier email.
On 30 November 2011 Zenith set up a new claim for metallic objects in stomach causing 
symptoms of dyspnoea/lethargy with a started date of 9 August 2018. It paid the claim less 
the CT scan  and heart scan, which was dealt  with under a separate claim.  Zenith  deducted 
the £85 and excess and £135.88  co-payment together with £1,375.43 for the heart scan.  It 
referred to co-payment  for pets of 8 and over but in fact Zenith  later corrected this to say the 
co-payment applied  for pets of 6 and over (but only after Mrs M had pointed  this out). 
On 14 December 2018 Zenith emailed Mrs M to say it had paid £1,237.89 in settlement of 
the other claim,  less a 15% deduction. Mrs M asked  about this and Zenith  explained about 
the inner policy limit of £1,250 and a separate co-payment deduction. Mrs M asked about the 
age at which the co-payment applied  and also about two excesses. She thought  the 
deductions werent clear. Zenith replied to say it was an £85 excess per condition per claim 
 and two claims had been paid for metallic  objects and mitral valve, with an excess  for 
each. It was sorry for the confusing emails which said a deduction of 15% and clarified that it 
had correctly deducted £10%. It paid £30 for the confusion.  
I think Zenith did review the claim within the timescales stated to Mrs M. But overall I dont 
think it dealt with the claim fairly, in that it initially said the heart  condition  was pre-existing 
because of a murmur noted in 2013. Ive read the vets clinical notes from 2013. The vet 
notes show that the dog had a physiological grade 2 heart murmur noted once in July 2013 
during a routine vaccination appointment. The vet arranged for the dog to have heart 
ultrasounds, including one by a visiting specialist. Following those examinations  the vet 
confirmed that the dog had no heart  murmur, no heart condition, heart valve  or heart disease 
at all. 
I do accept that the dogs  illness was unusual and it was difficult to see whether the cause  of 
his symptoms were due to his heart  or due to the metallic objects. In the end the vet 
concluded it was due to the metallic objects. But Zenith then decided  that it would, in fact, 
pay the claim for mitral valve disease in any event  I assume because the notes made by 
the vet in 2013 show the 2018  murmur couldnt  reasonably be linked to the 2013 murmur. 
So I dont  think it was fair for Zenith  to decline  the claim in November 2018 as being  linked to 
a pre-existing condition.  This meant that Mrs M had to obtain further vets evidence  and 
make a complaint.  I think it could  have made  a decision earlier.
Ref: DRN25357565I have read Mrs Ms comments about the time shes spent on this matter. I wouldnt usually 
award compensation based on a daily rate, with reference to a consumers commercial  rate. 
But I do accept that she was caused some  inconvenience and distress,  because the claim 
was declined unfairly, the time taken for this decision to be reached and due to the confusion 
over the deductions.  Ive already explained why it was fair for Zenith to treat the claim as one 
condition. 
Mrs M hasnt  sent us any credit card statements to show the interest she paid explaining that 
shes paid her vet. I think a fair settlement for the distress and inconvenience  is a moderate 
level of compensation.  I assess  £150  to be fair. In assessing this amount Ive taken into 
account that this wasnt  a straightforward claim as acknowledged by the vets involved and 
that Zenith  has already paid £30 to Mrs M.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Zenith responded to say that it accepted  my provisional decision and had no further 
comments to make.
Mrs M responded to say that shed hoped  to make some comments  on my provisional 
decision, but for personal reasons had been  unable to do so. She said if we wouldnt extend 
the date for a response she would accept  the provisional decision. We did give Mrs M a 
further two weeks  to respond. Our investigator has called her to explain that as weve not 
heard anything further from her the complaint would now be passed  back  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mrs Ms personal  circumstances.  
Ive not received any additional comments or evidence  by the extended date for a response.  
So I see no reason  to depart from the findings I reached in my provisional  decision. I confirm 
those findings  here.  I require Zenith  to take the steps set out below, as its now agreed to do. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. I require Zenith  Insurance plc 
to pay Mrs M £76.50 for the claim and an additional £150 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Zenith must  pay the total compensation within 28 days  of the date on which  we tell it Mrs M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Ref: DRN25357566Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Zenith considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs M how much its taken  off. It should also give Mrs M a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2535756