K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr H had three loans from Uncle Buck between September 2016 and October 2017 as 
follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 13 Sep 2016 £200 78d £92.83 30 Nov 2016 On time
2 19 Aug 2017 £175 73d £78.07 31 Oct 2017 On time
3 31 Oct 2017 £350 92d £176.90 31 Jan 2018 28 Feb 2019
Repayment plan
Mr H says Uncle Buck should  have  carried  out better affordability checks  before approving 
his loans.
Uncle Buck  says it asked  Mr H about his income  and expenditure and checked his credit file 
before it approved the loans. It says it found all the loans to be affordable  based on the 
available information.  Uncle  Buck  adds  that Mr H contacted it on 29 November 2017 and a 
repayment plan was agreed for loan 3.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said that Mr Hs credit file 
showed a number of defaults prior to taking out loans 2 and 3, so he said Uncle Buck  should  
have realised it was unlikely Mr H could sustainably repay them.  He recommended interest 
and charges should be refunded on loans 2 and 3 and that any associated negative 
information should be removed from his credit  file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary  that removing the loans from Mr Hs credit  file 
would be detrimental  to Mr H and would not be a fair reflection upon  which  other lenders 
could base decisions. It adds that the defaults  were not necessarily an indication  Mr H was 
having problems  managing his money and its analysis  showed the repayments were 
affordable to him. Uncle Buck  said Mr H also presented  a different financial picture when the 
repayment plan was being discussed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Uncle Buck  was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr 
H could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr H was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Uncle Buck had to do.
Loan 1
Im satisfied that Uncle Buck did enough checks before  it approved loan 1. Mr H said his 
income was £1,400, with expenditure of £900,  so I find it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to 
approve the loan.  There was nothing in the available  information to indicate  it was 
unaffordable.
Ref: DRN28830102Loan 2
When Mr H applied for loan 2, Uncle Bucks credit  check showed hed had three  defaults  
since November 2016. I acknowledge  that Uncle Buck  says this isnt necessarily  an 
indication he was having problems managing money, but I consider it should have prompted 
a full financial review  before  loan 2 was approved.
Had such a review been carried out, Uncle Buck is likely to have found Mr H had balances 
with seven other short-term lenders at the time he applied  for loan 2. Mr Hs credit file 
indicated the monthly  repayments on those alone were almost £750.  So Im satisfied that, if 
Uncle Buck  had carried out proportionate  checks, it would have found that Mr H was unlikely 
to be able to sustainably repay  loan 2. And so it should not have  approved the lending.
Loan 3
Mr Hs credit file showed another default  by the time he applied  for loan 3. However, this 
appears to be a duplicate of an account that had been passed to a debt management 
company. Again there  are clear indications that Mr H was struggling to manage his money 
and Uncle  Buck should have carried out better checks before lending to him. Such  checks  
would have shown  he was still borrowing from seven  other  short-term  lenders and could  not 
afford the repayments  on loan 3.
I accept what Uncle Buck says about removing loans 2 and 3 from Mr Hs credit file, but any 
negative information,  if there is any, should  be removed, as its clear that Uncle Buck  should  
not have approved loans  2 and 3 in the first place. So its unfair for the loans to have a 
negative impact on Mr Hs credit  file.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr H paid on loans 2 and 3;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 2 and 3 from Mr Hs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2883010