K821x#15complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) stopped a direct  debit 
payment from her account by mistake.
background
Mrs O had two bank  accounts with NatWest.  She used one of the accounts  regularly.  And a 
monthly direct debit had been set up from that account. But in June 2018 the direct debit 
wasnt collected. So Mrs O had to visit her branch a number of times to try and sort things 
out. 
The problem continued for a number  of months.  And Mrs O said a policy  fell behind because  
NatWest hadnt  made the payments. So shed like the bank to put things right. And shed  like 
some compensation for the stress  and inconvenience shes suffered.
NatWest said Mrs Os direct debit  had been transferred from one of her accounts to the 
other. But the transfer markers hadnt been  amended. And the bank had conflicting  markers  
on both accounts  which stopped the payments going through. 
NatWest said itd now removed the markers  and contacted the other business to explain 
whatd happened. And it apologised for its error  and offered  Mrs O £150 compensation for 
any upset or distress.
Mrs O wasnt  satisfied with NatWests response.  So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She looked at what had happened.  And she could  see 
how challenging itd been for Mrs O to try and get some answers. Although  NatWest  had 
now corrected the problem she felt the bank should increase its offer of compensation to 
£200.
Mrs O felt £200 wasnt enough for the amount of stress shed been caused. So shes asked  
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how distressing and confusing this mustve been for Mrs O. Her direct 
debits had gone through without any problem. But the payments suddenly  stopped  and no 
one could explain why. 
Mrs O was worried about a policy she held because her payments werent being made. And 
she had to keep  going back and forth to find out what was going  wrong.  So Ive looked  
carefully at whats happened and what NatWest  should do to put things  right.
It appears the direct debit  instruction  was moved  back and forth between  Mrs Os two 
accounts. But the bank left some  markers  on the accounts and the payment  system  stopped  
working properly. 
  
Ref: DRN27127082I can see NatWest has now removed the markers. And her direct  debit  is being  paid from the 
correct account  again.  And the bank  has written to the other business to explain  what  
happened and that it wasnt Mrs Os fault. 
NatWest has apologised for the mistake.  It said the markers wouldnt be visible to its normal  
staff. So itd taken  longer  than it should  have to discover what was causing  the problem.
 
But its clear Mrs O has gone  to a lot of effort  trying to find someone  to sort out what had 
gone wrong. And shes been worried her policy would be affected  when her payments 
stopped. 
I can see our investigator has suggested NatWest  pay Mrs O £200  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  shes  been through. I realise Mrs O doesnt  think  thats enough. But taking 
everything into account, including the level of awards this service makes, I think  thats  a fair 
and appropriate  amount  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mrs O £200 
compensation for her trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2712708