K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him 
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr C took out seven loans with UBF and details of these are shown below. The first three  
loans were repayable  by one repayment  and Loans  4 to 7 were repayable by three monthly  
repayments. All the loans have been repaid.
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Number of repayments  
and highest repayment 
amountRepayment date
1. 29/10/2014 £100 1 repayment of £134.95 21/11/2014
2. 30/11/2014 £100 1 repayment of £134.95 19/12/2014
3. 21/12/2014 £150 1 repayment of £202.42 16/1/2015
4. 20/1/2015 £175 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£88.4813/2/2015
5. 29/5/15 £150 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£72.4217/8/2015
6. 15/9/2015 £300 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£157.5421/12/2015
7. 21/12/2015 £200 3 monthly repayments   
highest repayment of 
£101.4221/3/2016
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Loans  4 to 7 should be upheld.  He said that by Loan 4, 
Mr C had shown signs he was struggling to repay some of his previous loans. And he said 
that by Loan 6, Mr Cs overall pattern of borrowing suggested that he had become  
persistently reliant  on short term lending.
UBF disagreed. It made a number of generic points. It also noted  that the first three loans  
were single repayment loans and some  of these were settled early. It didnt consider these 
as part of the six loans in eleven months  that the adjudicator had said Mr C had taken out. It 
had spoken to Mr C before  Loans  6 and 7 and provided information to him about repeat 
borrowing. UBF also said that there was no evidence that the loans werent sustainable 
taking into account  Mr Cs repayment  records, the 103 day borrowing gap, the results of its 
credit checks and that it had spoken  to Mr C on a number of occasions.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to UBF on 20 January 2020.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN27583382Id said that Id considered UBFs responses to the adjudicators view. Some  of its points 
were generic  so I didnt  intend to respond  to those points. But Id said that I would refer in my 
decision to some of UBFs loan specific and other points raised by it. 
Id noted that when  UBF lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that UBF needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, Id thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important  to say that UBF was required to establish  whether Mr C could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might be an indication  a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Cs complaint.
SL did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr C. It had asked him for details of his income  
and expenditure.  Mr C declared  his monthly income  as £1,125 before Loans 1 to 3, £1,800 
Ref: DRN27583383before Loans  4 and 5 and £1,200 before Loans 6 and 7. Mr Cs declared expenditure was 
£800 before  Loans 1 to 3 and between £325  and £425 before Loans  4 to 7. 
Id also noted  that UBF checked Mr Cs credit  file before agreeing  to the loans and it had 
provided this service with copies of its checks before some of the loans.  
Mr C had provided us with a copy of his credit report. This showed  a number of short term 
loans. But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit  check,  the information it saw 
didnt usually provide the same level of detail  that a consumers credit report would  and it 
wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, not all of Mr Cs short  
term loans might have been  identified by UBFs credit check. So, this might explain  any 
differences between  the information provided by UBFs  credit  check  and Mr Cs actual 
situation.
Id noted that UBF had sent us its credit  checks before Loan  1. These referred  to one 
delinquent account and one defaulted account in the previous twelve  months. But Id noted 
that these entries  had resulted from the same account which  had been made delinquent 
around a year before Loan  1 and then had been  defaulted around  nine months before 
Loan 1. I could see that the account  was then settled nine days after it had been defaulted. 
In these circumstances I didnt think this relatively  recent default  should have caused UBF to 
decide not to lend to Mr C.
Id noted that the repayment  amount for Loan 1 of £134.95 was relatively  modest compared 
to the income  that Mr C had declared  to UBF. But UBFs credit  check showed that Mr C had 
12 active credit accounts with 20 accounts opened  in the previous six months.  Id also seen 
around six outstanding loans on UBFs credit  check, three of which  were  all taken out within  
the previous eight days. Although not described as such, they all appeared to be short  term 
loans. Id thought the number of recent short term accounts might  have caused UBF some 
concerns and should have been  sufficient to suggest that Mr C might  have  been  having 
problems managing his money.  So, Id thought it might have been  proportionate at this time 
for UBF to have gathered some further information  from Mr C about his other  short term 
loans. 
Id checked Mr Cs credit report to see what UBF would have seen if it had done 
proportionate checks. Id not seen Mr Cs bank statements. If UBF had had asked Mr C 
about his other short  term loans, I could see from Mr Cs credit report  that he had two 
outstanding short term loans. I didnt think the extent of this other short term borrowing was 
such that it would have put UBF on notice  that Mr C was having problems managing his 
money. So, I didnt  think  UBF did anything wrong  in giving  Loan 1 to Mr C.
Mr C took out Loan 2 nine days after repaying Loan 1. The loan amount was again  £100. It 
appeared that UBF had used the credit checks it had carried out before Loan  1 when 
assessing Loan 2 which was taken  out around  one month after Loan 1. I didnt think  this was 
unreasonable. But in view of the outstanding  loans  on the credit check referred to above, I 
thought UBF should  again have done  some  additional checks  such  as asking Mr C for more 
information about his short term borrowing commitments.
Had it done so, UBF would have discovered that Mr C had three outstanding short term 
loans from other short  term lenders. Id seen these loans on Mr Cs credit  report.  
Ref: DRN27583384So Id thought it would have been  clear to UBF if it had done proportionate  checks that 
Mr C was facing problems  managing his money  and unlikely to be able to repay 
Loan 2 in a sustainable  manner. So I didnt think UBF should have provided Loan  2 to Mr C.
Mr C took out Loan 3 just two days after repaying Loan 2. Id thought  this might have 
suggested to UBF that repaying the loan had caused Mr C to need to borrow again which 
wasnt a sustainable  situation. The loan amount had increased  to £150 repayable by one 
repayment of £202.42.  Again it appeared that UBF had used the credit checks it had carried  
out before  Loan 1 when  assessing Loan 3 which  was taken out a little less than two months 
after Loan  2. I didnt think this was unreasonable. But in view of the outstanding loans on the 
credit check  referred to above, Id thought UBF should again  have made  some  additional  
checks such as asking  Mr C for more information  about his short term borrowing 
commitments.
Had it done so, UBF would have discovered that Mr C still had three outstanding short term 
loans. Id seen  these loans on Mr Cs credit report. 
So Id thought it would have been  clear to UBF if it had done proportionate  checks that 
Mr C was facing problems  managing his money  and unlikely to be able repay 
Loan 3 in a sustainable  manner. So I didnt think UBF should have provided Loan  3 to Mr C.
Loan 4 was taken out just four days after Loan 3 was repaid. Id thought this might have 
again suggested to UBF that repaying  the loan caused Mr C to need  to borrow again  which  
wasnt a sustainable  situation. The loan amount had increased  to £175 but it was repayable 
by three  monthly  repayments of £88.48. The repayment amounts for Loan 4 might have 
appeared relatively modest compared  to the income  of £1,800  that Mr C had declared to 
UBF. But UBFs credit check  showed  that Mr C had 14 active  credit accounts with 18 
accounts opened in the previous  six months. Id also seen on UBFs credit  check around 
seven outstanding loans, two of which were taken out around a month  before  Loan  4. 
Although not described as such,  they all appeared to be short term loans. Id thought the 
number of short term accounts might have caused  UBF some concerns and should have 
been sufficient  to suggest that Mr C might have been having problems managing  his money.  
So, Id thought it might again have been  proportionate  at this time for UBF to have gathered  
some further  information from Mr C about his other  short term loans. 
Id checked Mr Cs credit report to see what UBF would have seen if it had made 
proportionate checks. If UBF had asked  Mr C about  his other short  term loans, I could see 
from Mr Cs credit report that he had four outstanding short term loans. So I thought it would 
have been clear to UBF if it had done proportionate checks  that Mr C was still facing 
problems managing his money  and unlikely to be able repay Loan 4 in a sustainable 
manner. So I didnt  think UBF should have provided Loan 4 to Mr C.
Although there was more than a three month gap between the repayment of Loan  4 and 
taking out Loan 5, Id noted that Loan 5 was Mr Cs fifth loan in around seven months. Id 
thought UBF should  have  been concerned that Mr C might have become reliant on its 
lending. And I didnt think it was reasonable for UBF to base its assessment before Loan  5 
on the information provided by Mr C without taking steps to independently  check what hed 
declared. So I thought it might  have been proportionate at this time for UBF to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Cs finances. As far as I could  see UBF didnt do 
this. 
Ref: DRN27583385I would normally look at the borrowers bank  statements for the month  before the loan to see 
what proportionate checks would likely  have shown. But Id not seen Mr Cs bank 
statements. Id noted that the adjudicator  had asked Mr C for his bank statements in 
March 2019 so hed had ample time to provide these. But I did check  Mr Cs credit  report.  I 
could see from Mr Cs credit report that he had five outstanding short  term loans. So I 
thought it would have been  clear to UBF if it had done  proportionate  checks that Mr C was 
still facing problems managing his money  and unlikely to be able repay Loan 5 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I didnt think UBF should have provided Loan 5 to Mr C.
Loan 6 was taken out around a month  after Loan  5 was repaid  and the loan amount had 
doubled to £300. The loan was repayable  by three  monthly repayments of £157.54. Again Id 
thought UBF should  have  been concerned that Mr C might have become reliant on its 
lending. And I didnt think it was reasonable for UBF to base its assessment before Loan  6 
on the information provided by Mr C without taking steps to independently  check what hed 
declared. So again I thought it might have been proportionate at this time for UBF to have 
independently reviewed the true state  of Mr Cs finances.  
Id not seen Mr Cs bank statements. But I did check Mr Cs credit report. I could see from 
Mr Cs credit report that he had five outstanding short term loans, all taken out within the six 
week period before Loan 6. So Id thought  it would have  been clear to UBF if it had made 
proportionate checks that Mr C was facing serious problems managing his money and 
unlikely to be able repay Loan  6 in a sustainable  manner. So I didnt think  UBF should  have 
provided Loan 6 to Mr C.
Id also looked  at the overall pattern of UBFs lending history with Mr C, with a view to seeing  
if there was a point  at which  UBF should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so UBF should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Cs case, Id thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 7. Id said this because:
By Loan  7, Mr C had been borrowing from UBF for around fourteen months. 
Loan 7 was taken out on the day that Loan  6 was repaid. I considered this to be an 
indicator of potential  financial difficulties.
Mr C hadnt made  any real inroads to the amount he owed UBF. Loan 7 was his 
second highest loan amount and double the amount of his first loan. But Mr C had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to UBF over an extended 
period.
If UBF had made what I considered to be proportionate checks  before Loan  7 it 
would have seen  that Mr C had five outstanding short term loans. Id seen these 
loans on Mr Cs credit  report. So I thought  it would have been clear  to UBF if it had 
made proportionate  checks  that Mr C was still facing problems managing his money.
I thought that Mr C had lost out because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN27583386the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Cs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that the loans  were  repaid didnt mean  that they were repaid sustainably,  or 
without causing  Mr C undue difficulty. 
So, I didnt think that UBF acted fairly in providing  Loan 7.
Id considered some of the other main points UBF had made in response  to the adjudicators  
view in addition to what Id said above. 
Id noted that UBF had said that it considered if the repayments were affordable on a pounds 
and pence basis  and that repayments being made in full and on time were an indication that 
Mr C could sustainably make his repayments. But I thought UBF would (or ought to) know 
from previous decisions  (as well as what was set out on our website)  that there were cases  
where this service considered the overall  lending pattern and not just the affordability of each 
loan. And there would be times when the pattern of lending alone  was enough to indicate 
that a consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise have been 
harmed should  relending  have  continued.  So it followed that successful  repayment  of a 
loan didnt automatically mean it was repaid sustainably.
UBF referred to conversations with Mr C before Loans 6 and 7. But I thought the pattern  of 
Mr Cs borrowing was such that it wasnt reasonable for UBF to have relied on the 
information hed provided in those  conversations.
UBF had also referred  to gaps between some  of the loans. Id noted  there  were  some limited 
gaps between loans  being repaid and a new loan being  granted,  including  one of around 
103 days before Loan 5. But I didnt think it would have been reasonable for UBF to have  
concluded these  gaps were any indication that Mr Cs finances had moved on from whatever 
situation had required his previous loans. Overall there was an established pattern of 
borrowing which ought to have concerned UBF irrespective  of the length of pauses  in Mr Cs 
loan applications.
Id noted that UBF had referred to a confirmation given by Mr C that he had read the pre-
contractual documentation. But even  if the provision of a confirmation on this and other  
matters had formed part of the loan application process, it didnt absolve UBF of its 
obligation to assess  the risk to Mr C and make a fair decision. 
Id also thought that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As UBF knew, the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs  of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Mr C or UBF my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  UBF to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what UBF needs  to do
Ref: DRN27583387refund  all interest and charges Mr C paid on Loans 2 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file with regard to Loans 2 
to 6; and
remove any information  about  Loan 7 from Mr Cs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C responded to the provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
UBF responded to the provisional  decision and said that it had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr C has accepted my provisional decision and that he and UBF have given me 
nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require UBF to pay 
Mr C some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr C paid on Loans 2 to 7;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Cs credit file with regard to 
Loans 2 to 6; and
4.Remove any information about Loan 7 from Mr Cs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Ref: DRN27583388Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2758338