K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms F are unhappy about  how Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) assessed their 
travel insurance claim.
background
Ms Fs handbag was stolen on a holiday abroad. Mr H and Ms F made  a claim on their travel  
insurance policy for:
£70 in cash
reading glasses,  worth £30
the handbag itself,  worth £50
a mobile phone, worth £600
URV didnt  pay out on the claim as the theft of mobile phones  wasnt  covered by the couples 
policy. And the other items were  worth less than the policy excesses.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She thought the policy  terms 
were applied correctly  and the policy summary  explained how excesses were charged and 
that mobile phones  were  only covered  by a separate add-on policy which  Mr H and Ms F 
didnt purchase.
Mr H and Ms F didnt agree, so the case was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs and Ms Fs policy is divided into different  sections and an excess is applicable for 
each section claimed under. This is usual  practice  for travel insurance policies. 
The couple  claimed under  two sections of the policy. Stolen  cash  can be claimed for under 
section 5 of the policy  which is titled  If your cash or passport is lost or stolen  on your trip 
and the reading  glasses  and handbag  fall under  section 4 titled If your possessions  are lost, 
stolen, damaged or delayed.
Both section  4 and 5 have an excess of £100  each and Mr Hs and Ms Fs claims under 
each section fell below  those excess limits (£70 in cash and £80 for the glasses  and 
handbag), so no payment was made to them. Mobile phones are considered gadgets in this 
policy and are only covered under an add-on gadget  insurance which Mr H and Ms F didnt 
have.
So based  on the policy terms I think URV  dealt  with the claim correctly.
I understand that Mr H and Ms F feel a mobile  phone isnt a gadget  and that ordinary people 
wouldnt understand what excess per section really  means. They also think they shouldnt be 
expected to read a long policy document and all the small  print.
Ref: DRN22795382However, Ive seen the policy  summary  (four pages) which  is designed to give an overview  
of the most important  features  and exclusions of the policy and which  is set out in an easy  to 
read format.  
The summary includes information about  the excess which  says:
Your policy carries  an excess and this is the amount you have to contribute towards each 
claim. All excesses shown  for this policy are payable by each insured-person, per section  
and for each incident giving rise to a separate claim.
I think given the fact the policy is clearly divided into sections,  this explanation is clear 
enough. 
The summary also explains  under the heading gadgets and mobile phones that a gadget 
and mobile extension can provide cover for your gadgets including smart/mobile  phones  
and tablet computers.  I think this makes it clear  that mobile phones are considered gadgets 
under this policy and that they are only covered  under  an extension to the policy.
I understand that Mr H and Ms F are disappointed that they didnt receive a pay out from 
their travel insurance policy. However, having  considered everything I think their claim was 
dealt with correctly  and the information  in the policy summary was set out clearly.
So I wont  ask URV  to do anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2279538