K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably in the 
service it provided when her boiler  leaked, and in refusing to accept liability for the damage 
caused. She wants compensation.
background
Ms G had a repair homecare agreement with British Gas over a property she owned.  Ms G 
arranged for an annual service to take place in late July 2018, and said that the engineer 
didnt seem to know how the boiler worked (he needed help to find the control valve). Ms G 
also said that the engineer said all was well with the boiler after he re-pressurised it, but on 8 
August 2018 water  was found  to be coming out of the boiler,  causing  damage to the floor.
Ms G complained that British Gas didnt attend as expected on 8 August and missed other 
appointments to fix the boiler. This caused Ms G to arrange for a local plumber to stop the 
leak; British Gas attended on 17 August and later fixed the issue.  But it refused to 
compensate Ms G as it said the issue was a component failure which  couldve happened at 
any point, though it paid the £74.40  cost of the local plumber isolating the leak.  Ms G 
suspected that the engineer in July did something that caused the leak in August, but British 
Gas denied this. British Gas also said that it had attended the property twice on 8 August, 
but no-one was present to let it gain access and Ms Gs agent didnt answer the phone 
number supplied. It accepted that it was late to another  appointment to fix the leak,  which  
meant no-one was present at the property and paid £30 compensation for this failure.
Ms G complained to us. The investigators view was that he couldnt find that the boiler leak 
had been caused by British Gas and felt that it was unlikely that the service  caused the 
component to fail as it wouldve been immediately obvious. He thought  that the component  
failed due to wear and tear. But he noted that British Gas had been trying to contact  Ms G on 
the phone  using a number  it knew was international, but using a UK code; he thought  that 
this was why British Gas couldnt reach  Ms G when it phoned.  The investigator also thought  
that the agent and third parties  had been available  to give British Gas access  to the property. 
He said British Gas should pay another £350 compensation for the upset caused by the 
missed appointments,  together  with Ms Gs call costs.
But the investigator said as British Gas didnt cause the leak,  and the leak was found by a 
cleaner visiting the property (so the damage  had been done by the time of discovery),  he 
didnt think the costs connected  to replacing the floor should be paid by British Gas,  nor 
should any lost rental  income.
British Gas disagreed.  It said it hadnt been  able to reach anyone  on any of the numbers 
supplied by Ms G, so it felt its inability  to gain access to the property earlier  wasnt its fault. It 
thought £30 compensation for one missed appointment was fair and reasonable. Ms G 
agreed with the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22865372The purpose of an annual service is to ensure appliances are working safely and efficiently. 
If the checks or inspection  indicate that theres  a problem, the engineer  is expected to either 
repair the appliance or make it safe.  But this doesnt  mean that nothing can go wrong with 
the appliance after the annual service has taken place, and that if it does, British  Gas is to 
blame. 
In Ms Gs case, the only expert evidence available,  provided by British  Gass engineer, 
shows that the boiler leak happened because a plastic manifold cracked. This is a 
component failure.  In the absence of any expert  evidence to the contrary, I think  this is 
whats likely to have happened. 
 From what  I understand, checking each component isnt part of the annual service  process  
and the manifold normally wouldnt  be touched in such a service. So I cant find on the basis  
of the evidence that its more likely  than not that British  Gas caused the leak;  the failure 
appears to be due to wear  and tear. And I agree that its more likely than not that the 
damage to the floor had been done by the time the leak was discovered. I wont  require 
British Gas to pay for the costs connected  to the installation of a new floor or any lost rental 
income.
I also looked at the issue  of customer service  generally. Ms Gs policy  is a landlords policy, 
and access to such properties is always likely to be more complicated  than when  dealing  
with a property  occupied by a resident owner.  Equally though,  prompt  attendance is 
expected for landlord policies as effectively  its a business policy.  British  Gas was also aware 
that Ms G would struggle to be personally  present to give access,  and was given  details of 
third parties assisting Ms G. British Gas hasnt explained why its engineers  kept attending 
the property on 8 August without agreeing an appointment time or speaking to the people  
with access on the phone.  From  the evidence,  its clear when an appointment time was 
agreed, someone was present. And the records show  that British  Gas was trying  to call one 
number which was international using  a UK dialling  code. Gaining access wasnt  an 
insurmountable issue, given a local plumber gained access, as did British  Gas later.
And its also clear from the evidence  available to me that Ms G was getting increasingly 
frustrated and upset  that water was leaking from her boiler and British Gas wasnt  attending 
the property to stop the leak. Ms G arranged  for someone to sit in her property (not a 
neighbour) and British Gas accepted that it didnt  attend in time; it also appears to have  
failed to update about its late arrival  despite sending texts  about the appointment time. The 
upset and frustration  was increased  by Ms G being  unable to attend  in person and trying to 
rent out the property, and feeling that she wouldnt be able to rely on British Gas when  the 
property was rented out and she was abroad. She also had to make a number of calls trying 
to sort out the issue of attendance at the property by British  Gas.
Compensation for trouble  and upset compensates the consumer for the trouble and upset 
they actually suffered,  and isnt calculated according  to the nature of the failure. So in these 
very specific circumstances  Im satisfied that £350  is fair and reasonable. British  Gas has 
already paid £30 and the costs of the local plumber, which is also fair and reasonable, but 
didnt adequately compensate Ms G for the trouble and upset she felt. British Gas should 
also pay Ms Gs call costs  for arranging the second and third engineers appointments on 
receipt of telephone bills.
Ref: DRN22865373my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and British  Gas Insurance  Limited should pay 
an additional  £350 compensation for the trouble and upset it caused  Ms G as well her call 
costs for arranging the second and third engineers  appointments upon receipt of the 
relevant evidence, such as phone bills. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms G accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Ms G how much its taken off. It should  also give Ms G a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN2286537