K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has unfairly declined his claim 
for damage  to his home  and voided his building insurance policy.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within my Provisional  Decision, a copy is attached. 
In summary,  I said Mr Ls claim for damage  to his home was found to be due to subsidence.  
L&G said Mr L had made a previous subsidence claim and had he declared this when he 
took out the policy, it wouldnt have  offered him home insurance cover.
L&G then voided  Mr Ls policy  from inception, returning his policy premiums to him, on the 
grounds that hed failed  to disclose his previous subsidence claim. Mr L said that when he 
took out the policy he was only asked about  claims from the last five years.  He said he 
wasnt asked about other  damage to his home. Mr L also disputes that the previous claim 
was classed as subsidence and said he had only paid an excess  of £50.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said insurance law states  that an insurer may void a policy where there  has been a 
misrepresentation. I said it looked as if Mr L was told his previous claim was subsidence and 
ought to have declared this in response  to a clear question on his insurance proposal  form.
I said I thought for this reason  it was fair for L&G to void Mr Ls policy  and return his 
premiums. I said that because Mr Ls policy was voided back  to inception in 2016, there was 
no cover  under which a claim could  then be considered arising  in 2017.
L&G accepted the provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Mr L did not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that
Mr Ls complaint should not be upheld, and for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
There was no time limit on the question to Mr L about previous subsidence and the question  
from L&G was clearly  expressed.  From several communications  Mr L received at the time of 
his previous claim it ought to have been clear that his damage was treated as due to 
subsidence.
It is also clear  from L&Gs  underwriting guidance  that it wouldnt have offered Mr L insurance  
cover had it known about his previous  claim. I think it was reasonable for L&G to void Mr Ls 
policy cover  for misrepresentation and to refund him his premiums. This means there was no 
cover under which L&G might consider Mr Ls latest  claim. 
Ref: DRN22957632my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295763