K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the compensation he was offered by Aviva  Insurance Limited 
(Aviva) to settle a complaint relating  to mis-sold  PPI.
background
Aviva offered to settle Mr Bs complaint that he had been mis-sold PPI in 1990 when he 
opened a catalogue account. It sent Mr B an offer of compensation but he wasnt  happy that 
this was worked out correctly.
Aviva was offering  to refund  the costs of the PPI that had been  added to the account, and 
also pay £1,188.48  (before tax) as compensatory interest for the time Mr B was out of 
pocket. Mr B didnt think the compensatory  interest amount had been worked out right.  So 
he brought his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018, a copy of which is 
attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the background to this complaint and the 
reasons why I thought the offer made by Aviva wasnt fair. I explained why I thought  in the 
particular circumstances  of this case I thought Aviva should recalculate the compensatory 
interest of 8% simple.  And I requested Aviva to provide the updated  calculation  in response 
to the provisional  decision.
Aviva appears to have  disagreed with my findings as it responded with a copy of the original  
calculation with explanations about why it thought this was correct. But it made no reference 
to the approach I had said was fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B responded saying  he accepted  my provisional findings and decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva agreed to uphold  the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold,  so Im only considering 
what would  be fair compensation to settle this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I thought the amount Aviva  had worked  out as the 
actual costs of £4,480.39  for the PPI added to Mr Bs account was correct.  Aviva had also 
refunded one charge of £15.00 that it thought had been caused by the PPI being on the 
account. 
Aviva had worked out in the account reconstruction that during the time the PPI was active,  if 
PPI hadnt been in the balance Mr B wouldve  paid less on a number of occasions. In my 
provisional decision there was a typo as this should  have said this happened  on more than 
one occasion,  not only  one occasion.. So it included compensatory interest  on the amounts 
he overpaid in these months  at the rate of 8% simple per year.  In total,  to the end of October  
2011 this compensatory interest  comes to £103.34. 
Ref: DRN28767772However no more PPI was being  added to the account after May 2011 as the PPI policy  was 
cancelled. So I said in my provisional decision that from the next date the account would 
have been in credit if no PPI was in the balance, which was 29 October 2011, Mr B was out 
of pocket for the total amount of the PPI. As no more PPI was ever added there was no 
reason in this particular  case to add into the balance the PPI costs  again as Aviva  had done.   
In response to my provisional decision Aviva has sent again its original calculation, 
explaining how it has worked out the 8% simple  interest and that this is in line with the 
standard guidelines  for calculating PPI compensation.
I accept there are standard approaches and guidelines to calculating  PPI redress. The 
approach Aviva has taken  here is often applied to credit card accounts.  In this type of 
account the balance is only paid down  on a percentage  monthly  amount and compound 
interest is added  to the balance. It is often considered that it is fair to the consumer that they 
get compound  interest on the costs  of the PPI in the balance,  rather than 8% simple  and so 
the PPI is deemed  the last amount paid off from the balance. When  more  spending occurs 
on the account the PPI in these cases is deemed  to still be included  in the overall balance so 
compound interest  is paid on the total amount  of PPI.
In the particular circumstances of this complaint I dont  think  that standard  approach would 
be fair. Mr B wasnt repaying a percentage of a variable balance  for his spending; he was 
paying off the total spent on items added to the account over a fixed period of weeks.  The 
PPI on his account is spending,  just as any other goods he bought. So it seems  it would 
have been paid off over a fixed period of weeks. 
Once the balance without  PPI would have been cleared then Mr B was out of pocket for all 
the PPI. Also the nature of the account  is that he wouldve paid for the last amount of PPI 
added to the account 20 weeks after it was added.  This would  be by the beginning of 
October. 
As no compound interest is charged on the balance of the account, Mr B isnt getting  the 
benefit of compound interest rather than simple  interest. Once Mr B would have cleared the 
balance on the account if there had been no PPI, in October 2011, he would have paid all of 
the PPI in the account. 
Whilst a standard  approach to calculating  PPI redress may well be fair in most  cases,  each 
case has to be considered on its own merits. And Im not persuaded that in the particular  
circumstances of Mr B the standard  approach  is fair. This is what  I explained in my 
provisional decision.
Aviva hasnt provided any new information in response to my provisional decision. It has 
merely resubmitted its original calculation  with more detailed explanations about the 
standard approach it has applied to this calculation. But as I have said,  Im not satisfied this 
is a fair approach  in this particular case.
As Aviva has not provided any new calculation, updated with 8% simple interest applied from 
29 October 2011 as I requested, I have had a calculation undertaken that indicates what  I 
think the fair compensation should  be.
Ref: DRN28767773The premiums to be refunded, plus the charge, plus the 8% simple  interest  during the time 
the PPI was active is as follows:-
PPI premiums: £4,480.39
8% simple  interest whilst PPI active:  £   103.34 (as in Avivas calculation to 29/10/2011) 
Refund of charge: £   15.00
Total: £4,598.73
Additional 8% simple  interest also needs to be calculated on the cost of the PPI and the 
£15 charge (added in 2002). This is from the date the account went  into credit  on 
29 October 2011 to the date of final settlement. I have taken the date of final settlement as 
28 February 2019 to allow  some  time for processing  of this decision and the payment. 
So 8% simple interest on £4,495.39 from 29 October 2011 to 28 February 2019 would give 
£2,637.99 before tax. Once  tax is removed it leaves £2,110.39. So the total compensation 
due to Mr B would be £6,709.12, as at 28 February  2019.
Therefore I think this would be fair compensation in the circumstances of this particular 
account for Aviva to pay to Mr B.
If the payment is not processed by 28 February  2019 then Aviva  should add 8% simple  
interest for every day after this. On the £4,495.39  this would be £0.99 per day before tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above and in my provisional decision,  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision,  I dont think that Aviva Insurance  Limited has 
paid fair compensation to Mr B. Therefore  I am directing, in line with the calculation provided 
above, it should pay Mr B £6,709.73 in compensation.  
If the payment is not completed before  28 February 2019 8% simple interest per day of 
£0.99 (before  tax) should be added to the date of final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
Ref: DRN28767774complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about the compensation offered  by Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva), which has 
accepted responsibility for the complaint.  Mr B complained that he was mis-sold PPI with a catalogue  
account he opened and is unhappy with the compensation hes been offered.
background
Mr B complained he had been  mis-sold  PPI when he opened a catalogue account in 1990.
Aviva didnt agree the PPI was mis-sold so Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator 
recommended the complaint  should be upheld and Aviva agreed to offer compensation to settle it.
When Aviva  sent out its offer to Mr B he wasnt happy with the amount Aviva offered. Mr B said Aviva 
hadnt worked  out the compensatory  interest correctly as it had offered 8% per year  simple interest 
for any periods when he was out of pocket. 
Aviva provided  statements  from Mr Bs account to show  how it had worked out the premiums  paid by 
Mr B and also provided a copy  of its offer letter sent to Mr B in February 2017.  This letter showed the 
total compensation offered after tax was £5,446.17. Of this amount, £1,188.48 (before tax) was the 
simple interest  Aviva said Mr B was owed  for the time it said he was out of pocket  for the cost of the 
PPI.
Mr B said he had been paid compensation  for mis-sold PPI on another account  and the 8% simple 
interest was proportionately much higher, so he didnt think the amount offered was correct.
Our adjudicator looked  at the information provided  and said they thought  the offer was fair. 
Mr B still wasnt  happy  and asked  for an ombudsman  to consider  his complaint. He also provided 
some statements he had found and said he thought the premiums Aviva said hed paid may also be 
slightly incorrect.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva agreed  to uphold the complaint and pay compensation to settle it after Mr B brought  his the 
complaint to this service. 
As Aviva has now agreed to uphold  the complaint  that the PPI was mis-sold, in this decision Im not 
looking at the reasons why it was mis-sold.  I am only considering if the compensation offered  to settle 
the complaint is fair and puts Mr B as far as possible  in the position  hed be in if hed not bought the 
PPI.
First, I would say that just because on one account a customer receives a certain  amount of 
compensatory interest, it does not mean that on a different account  a similar amount of compensatory 
interest will be payable. The calculation depends on a number of factors,  such  as the monthly  balance 
on an account, the amount paid off each month, if any payments were missed, etc. So each case has 
to be looked at on its own particular  facts and calculations  are done for the specific account using  the 
details available about it.
Aviva was asked to provide  details of its calculation.  It originally just sent a copy  of its offer letter  to Mr 
B, together with statements for the account which cover the whole of the period  the PPI was active. It 
has now provided  some spreadsheets which show a little more about the reconstructed balance on 
the account and how much  8% simple interest is included for each month it says Mr B was out of 
pocket because  of the PPI.
Ref: DRN28767775Mr B has also provided some account statements that he has found. This is not a full set of 
statements but from these he has indicated  he now feels the premiums paid should be a little more 
than Aviva offered.  To work out how much he had paid in premiums Mr B had to make some 
assumptions about what the possible charges were for the PPI for the months  he had no statements.
I would like to reassure Mr B that Ive looked through and compared the statements he has provided, 
with those  sent by Aviva, and they match exactly. However Aviva has a full set of statements  and so 
has been able to use these  to calculate the exact amount Mr B was charged in PPI premiums. I have 
looked carefully  at the statements and amounts charged each  month for the PPI. This in total comes  
to £4,480.39, which is the amount Aviva indicated it was offering to refund for the premiums paid.
Aviva also said that the PPI may have  been responsible  for a charge to the account of £15.00 in 2002 
and has also included this amount in Mr Ps refund.
Im satisfied that the amount Mr B paid for the PPI was a total of £4,480.39. However I dont think  
Aviva has then worked out the 8% simple interest fairly in this particular case.
Mr B is entitled to receive 8% simple  interest for all the time he was out of pocket for the costs of the 
PPI. Aviva has worked out how much Mr B would have owed each month if he hadnt had PPI. If he 
ever paid more than he would have owed according to this reconstructed  balance,  he was out of 
pocket by the extra he paid.  This is because he wouldnt  have  paid more  than he owed. 
In the reconstruction  provided, I can see that from when  the account opened in December  2000 until 
October 2011 there was only one occasion when  Mr B would have paid slightly more  than he needed  
to and was therefore out of pocket. And Aviva has worked out how much compensatory interest Mr B 
should get on that amount for the period he was out of pocket.  
The next time Mr B paid more than he needed to would seem to be in October  2011. However  in 
May 2011 the PPI was cancelled.  So after May 2011 no further PPI premiums were added to the 
balance. Mr B was up to date with his payments and all items added  to the account were paid within a 
fixed number of weeks.  So once Mr B went into credit  according to the account  reconstruction in 
October 2011, he would have effectively paid off the full cost of the PPI policy. Mr B was therefore out 
of pocket by £4,480.39  from this date on. And he should be paid 8% simple interest on this amount 
from October 2011 until he gets his money back.
I would request Aviva to provide a new calculation in response  to this provisional  decision to show the 
fair amount  of 8% simple interest. This would be worked out as identified  already in the account 
reconstruction to October 2011, and from that date to the date of calculation (or anticipated settlement 
date) on the total costs of the PPI. At present  I dont  think the offer of Aviva  for £1,188.48 
compensatory interest is fair in the particular circumstances of his account.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the responses of both parties, Im intending to tell 
Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 8% simple  interest calculated on the PPI costs as I have set out above 
to ensure Mr B is compensated for the full periods  he was out of pocket.
In response to this provisional decision I am requesting  that Aviva Insurance  Limited provides  
updated calculations  working out the compensatory interest in the way I have indicated and bringing it 
up to date if Mr B hasnt already been paid any of the compensation.
Ref: DRN28767776This is all subject to any further information that is provided by either party by the date indicated at the 
start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2876777