K820x#14complaint
Mr D says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. This policy was originally  sold by Halifax Insurance  Ireland Limited.  
St Andrews  is now responsible for it. 
background
Mr D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. He paid a monthly  amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  Having done  so, Ive decided  not to 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.  Ill explain why.
St Andrews  shouldve made it clear the PPI was optional. And it shouldve  got Mr Ds 
agreement to buy it. Mr D says it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional.
St Andrews  say Mr D bought the PPI policy in a telephone call after he started his mortgage.  
Mr D and St Andrews havent been able to provide any detail about what  was said in this 
meeting. And there isnt much paperwork from the time of sale either. Thats  understandable 
given the time that has passed.  But it means  I dont know what was discussed. 
So Ive thought carefully about what Mr D and St Andrews  have said. And Ive also used  
what I know about St Andrews sales processes to help me make  my decision. Having done 
this, I dont have  enough  to say that its likely St Andrews  told Mr D that he needed to buy a 
PPI policy  to start a mortgage. In fact Mr D already had the mortgage before he bought the 
PPI. So overall I think its more likely that St Andrews made Mr D aware  that he had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it.
St Andrews  said it recommended the PPI to Mr D, so it shouldve made sure it was right for 
him. Mr D says this didnt happen, and in any event he wouldnt have been  able to claim on 
the policy due to a medical  condition. 
Mr Ds mortgage was a significant, long-term,  financial commitment.  If Mr D couldnt work for 
a long period of time he may have found  this difficult to pay. As the mortgage was secured 
on his home,  Mr D couldve  potentially  lost his property if he fell into financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr Ds mortgage payment if Mr D couldnt  work due to illness,  or he 
lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, or unemployment 
benefits, he might have received if this happened. It couldve provided a payment for up to 
24 months per claim.
Ref: DRN29634992Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr D couldnt afford  to make  the monthly payments for the PPI 
at the time of sale. And he doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. The policy document  Ive seen  doesnt  exclude pre-existing medical 
conditions. So it seems  to have been right for him based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. 
Ive considered the information provided at the time of sale.  The cost of the policy was 
shown. So I think Mr D wouldve understood how much he would need to pay for it. But its 
possible St Andrews  didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.
But as I said earlier, based on what I know about Mr Ds circumstances, it looks like the 
policy couldve been useful to him. So I dont  think better information wouldve stopped him 
buying it. And I dont  think Mr Ds lost out due to anything that St Andrews mightve  done  
wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2963499