K820x#14complaint
Mr J says J D Williams & Company Limited  failed to take his circumstances into account  
when he asked it to write  off his debt. He also says it failed to credit his account when he 
returned a number of items.
background
Mr J notified JD Williams of changes in his circumstances. Hed stopped working because of 
a health condition. It agreed to put in place a payment plan. Mr J thought  his health and 
financial position meant his debt should  be written-off. JD Williams  says its properly 
recognised his position and put in place  appropriate arrangements.
Mr J also says that in June 2018 he returned  eight items hed ordered from his catalogue. 
Hes unhappy because  hes only been  re-credited for one of these. JD Williams say the 
remaining items were never  received. Mr J says hes provided evidence  to show the goods 
were picked up by the approved courier service. JD Williams says whats been provided isnt 
sufficient proof.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mr J disagreed  and so his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr Js financial  and health circumstances
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Js difficult situation.  He did the right thing when he notified 
JD Williams about  the changes in his circumstances  which  meant he wouldnt be able to 
make the repayments  on his account.
JD Williams has tried to help him on a number  of occasions. In June 2018 it arranged for 
payments on his account to be fixed at £26 per four week period. In July 2018 it agreed  to 
suspend interest charges.  And by August  2018  it had accepted payment of £1 per four week 
period.
Mr J acknowledged that JD Williams  had been  very good  in how it had dealt with his 
situation. But as time progressed  and when he requested his debt be written  off he felt it 
didnt help him as much  as it shouldve. JD Williams says it considered the medical  and 
financial information he provided but didnt  feel this warranted his debt being written  off. 
On balance, I think JD Williams has treated Mr J positively and sympathetically. As recently 
as December 2018 it reviewed his account and continued to suspend interest charges on it. 
His £1 per four week payment arrangement remains in place. So I cant  fairly  direct it to 
write-off the debt on his account. JD Williams will continue to review  the situation  and its 
important that Mr J keeps  it up to date with any further  developments in his circumstances.
The return  of goods
Ref: DRN21327852In June 2018 Mr J returned eight items hed ordered  from his catalogue. Unfortunately  
JD Williams says only one item was received. Mr J provided CCTV images to show  the 
parcels were  picked up from his home.
JD Williams says the CCTV  images  dont show the package or packages  sufficiently  clearly  
to confirm that they were the items Mr J says he returned. It noted that when he returned 
goods on a previous occasion while his account  was credited, he was informed that if he 
was unable to obtain proof of posting  receipt  then in future it wouldnt be able to accept his 
claims.
Mr J provided  this Service with a note he says was from the courier  dated 
3 September 2018. This reports that the parcels had been picked up from Mr J. It also said 
that the reason it hadnt given him the necessary proof of returns  was because of the volume 
of parcels it was collecting that day.
There are a few problems with this letter  which mean I cant  put much  weight  on it. It isnt on 
the couriers official headed paper. And its not clear who has signed  the letter  the signees 
name isnt given in print and their official capacity isnt shown. If Mr J can contact the courier  
and secure official confirmation  of this letters content, Im sure JD Williams  will give this 
proper consideration.
I appreciate this had been a frustrating experience for Mr J. But because  he hasnt been able 
to provide telling  evidence  (proof of return) that he sent the items back and because  theres  
no evidence to suggest that business  has received them, Im unable  to uphold  this aspect of 
his complaint. So I wont be asking JD Williams to re-credit Mr Js account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2132785