K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Mr J complained that Just Financial Services  (Wales) Ltd didnt tell them  about 
the different  valuation  options when they applied for their mortgage.
background
Miss P and Mr J applied for a mortgage  with a lender Ill call X through Just Financial 
Services. The mortgage they applied for came with a free Report  and Valuation  for 
Mortgage Purposes Only. The valuation  was carried out on 18 September 2018 and a copy 
of the report was sent to Miss P and Mr J. The mortgage completed  on 23 November 2018.
Miss P and Mr J say after they moved in and started to redecorate  they found  problems  with 
the property. They  arranged for a builder to take a look at it and they say the costs of the 
works are estimated to be around  £15,000.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss P and Mr Js complaint. He said whilst there  was nothing 
to show the adviser  discussed the options  with Miss P and Mr J, they signed a declaration  
that set out the options and it was clear the report was only for mortgage purposes.  Miss P 
and Mr J didnt agree and so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss P and Mr J were  so upset to discover that their property has 
defects. It must have been a very unpleasant  shock,  made  worse  by the cost and the 
disruption that remedial work always involves. So I sympathise with their situation.
But what  I have to look at is whether  or not Just Financial Services was responsible. I cant 
comment on the professional competence of the surveyor and whether  or not they should 
have picked this up. Thats because the surveyor isnt a business that we have the power to 
deal with complaints  about. So what Ive looked  at is whether or not Just Financial Services  
was at fault for not making it clear that Miss P and Mr J had different options for valuation.
I cant make  a definite finding  on how much  information the Just Financial Services  adviser 
gave Miss P and Mr J about  options for more detailed and more expensive  surveys. There  
are no recordings; and I havent  seen any contemporary notes. So Ive had to rely on the 
documents instead. And even if the adviser  didnt tell Miss P and Mr J about  the valuation  
options, its what the documents said which really matters.
The key document is the valuation report.  The report states:
This is a limited report prepared in conjunction with your mortgage application to [X]. 
Only a limited inspection has been  undertaken  reporting  matters considered  by us to 
affect our decision to lend.
Please note that this is not a survey and defects may exist which  are not mentioned in 
this report. You are advised to have  a more detailed report  to satisfy yourselves that the 
property is free from defect. IT IS IMPORTANT THAT YOU SHOULD NOT RELY IN ANY 
Ref: DRN23468872WAY ON THIS REPORT  IN DECIDING  WHETHER  TO PROCEED WITH YOUR 
PURCHASE.
PLEASE NOTE  THAT  THIS  REPORT  IS NOT A DETAILED SURVEY  AND SHOULD  
NOT BE RELIED  UPON  WHEN MAKING  A DECISION WHETHER OR NOT TO 
PROCEED WITH YOUR PURCHASE.  YOU  SHOULD ALSO MAKE SURE  THAT  YOU  
OBTAIN ALL RELEVANT ESTIMATES AND REPORTS BEFORE  YOU AGREE TO 
BUY.
So I find that the document does clearly  contain  warnings that the mortgage valuation isnt a 
survey, or report on condition, and may not mention defects. Its just for X to decide whether 
or not to advance  money. The document also clearly advises the applicant to obtain a more  
detailed report about the propertys condition.
Miss P and Mr K also signed a declaration when they applied  for the mortgage  which  says:
For house  purchase  applications, there  are three  different types of report, namely  The 
Report & Valuation for Mortgage Purposes, The Home Buyers  Survey & Valuation, or 
the Building Survey.
The Report & Valuation  for Mortgage  Purposes  is a basic valuation  simply for mortgage 
purposes to help [X] assess your application  The report will not be detailed  and will be 
based on a limited inspection. [Xs] interest in the property is as security for your 
obligation to repay the advance with interest. It therefore needs  much less thorough and 
detailed advice about the property, to enable it to decide how much (if anything) it is 
prepared to advance, than you need as prospective  owner and occupier of the property. 
There may be serious defects in the property which are not revealed  by the Report  and 
Valuation for Mortgage Purposes,  or there may be omissions or inaccuracies in it, which 
do not matter to [X] but which would matter  to you. It is important that you should not rely 
in any way on [Xs] valuation report in deciding whether to proceed with the purchase.
You may wish to obtain your own more  detailed report on the condition and value of the 
property, based  on a fuller  inspection, to enable you to decide  whether the property  is 
suitable for your needs; details of the different inspections  which  can be undertaken at the 
same time as the valuation report for [X] are set out in [Xs] leaflet
The fees for a fuller report are, of course, higher than for [Xs] Report and Valuation for 
Mortgage Purposes, because the surveyor will spend more  time both inspecting the 
property and preparing  a fuller report suitable  for your needs, and also because the fee 
covers the cost of insurance against  the risk of liability to you in damages.  You may of 
course make your own arrangements for obtaining  a suitable report  on the property.
I have read the section above  headed VALUATION & INSPECTION SCHEMES,  
concerning [Xs] Report and Valuation for Mortgage  Purposes, and also [Xs] leaflet 
Valuation and Inspection Schemes,  and I understand that I should not rely on that report 
in any way in deciding whether or not to buy the property.  I understand that if I do not 
request or obtain a fuller  report  for my/our purposes,  I run the risk that the property may 
suffer from serious defects which are not mentioned  in the report  obtained by [X] and that 
the report may be defective, or may be inadequate  for my purposes.
Miss P and Mr K asked why they wouldnt have had a survey done if theyd been  advised 
about them. There are two points arising  from that. The first is that in my experience  many  
Ref: DRN23468873more mortgage  applications are completed using just a mortgage valuation than are 
completed using  a more  detailed  report. Often  this is due to the additional cost of the other 
reports, and that there are no areas of particular concern the consumer had when they 
viewed the property. So thats not something that flags up any concerns here.
The second  point is that whilst Just Financial Services should  have  told Miss P and Mr K that 
there were three different  survey options  available it had no responsibility to advise them  
which option was best, or even to explain the options. All Id expect the adviser  to do is to 
ask which  of the three options a consumer  wants, and leave them  to do their own research 
about what each  report entails. I cant be sure whether  or not the adviser did this - albeit  as 
Ive explained  above, this was all set out in the declaration Miss P and Mr K signed - but in 
any event this complaint  doesnt turn on that.
When considering  complaints  we dont just look at whether a business did anything wrong, 
but also what we think a consumer would have  done differently if nothing had gone  wrong.  
Miss P and Mr K say they would have instructed a more detailed  survey if theyd known that 
was an option  but thats not supported by what actually happened.  The report  was clear that 
a more detailed  survey was recommended and Miss P and Mr J had that report  in their 
possession for about two months before they completed on the property purchase. The fact 
they chose not to investigate the possibility of a more detailed report  despite the clear 
warnings they should  do so leads  me to consider  they also wouldnt have  opted  for a more  
detailed report if that option had been discussed  with them  upfront by the adviser.
Miss P and Mr K didnt pay for the report that was carried out. I understand a homebuyers  
report would  have cost £405 and a full survey £775. I can understand why, with hindsight,  
Miss P and Mr K wish they had followed the advice on the valuation  report and mortgage 
declaration to obtain a more detailed report as those  costs  are nothing compared  to the 
quotes Miss P and Mr K have received to put things right.  But they had the option  to 
investigate more detailed  reports  as recommended in the valuation report  and mortgage 
declaration and they chose not to. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss P and Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2346887