K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken  out with 
further advances  on a mortgage  in 2001 and 2004. The policies covered Mr D only. Mr D 
and the estate of Ms L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Ms Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the 2004 policy was mis-sold, but that the 2001  policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain  why below.
2001 sale
Mr D and Ms L took out the first PPI policy with a further advance on their mortgage  in 2001.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to them  that they had a choice about it. 
But Mr D has said it wasnt  made  clear it was optional.
Santander has sent us a copy  of Mr D and Ms Ls application form for the further advance.  
This included a section  on PPI with boxes to be ticked to say no they didnt want PPI or 
yes they wanted more details about  it. And the yes box has been ticked.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the mortgage interview record which has a question on 
PPI with yes and no options,  and the yes option has been selected. And Mr D and Ms L 
have signed the record to say they agree with it. And Santander has sent us a copy  of the 
loan confirmation  letter sent to Mr D and Ms L, which says PPI has been  agreed and shows 
the cost and benefit of the policy.
Based on this, I think Santander did make it clear to Mr D and Ms L that they had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Mr D and Ms L chose to take it.
Mr D has also said they were pressured  into taking the PPI. But he hasnt given us much  
more detail about what was said or why they felt this. This is understandable given how long 
ago the sale was. But I dont think theres enough evidence here for me to say that 
Santander unfairly pressured Mr D and Ms L into taking the PPI.
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr D and Ms L, so it had to check that it was 
right for them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example, Mr D doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant Mr D and Ms L didnt need to rely on any 
savings they had to make their mortgage repayments if Mr D wasnt earning.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr D and Ms L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Mr D and Ms Ls 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
Ref: DRN21549612couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr D and Ms L off taking it out.
So I dont  think the PPI policy was mis-sold in 2001.
2004 sale
Mr D took out a second PPI policy with a further advance  in 2004.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint in relation to this sale because  I dont think  Santander 
gave Mr D clear  enough  information about the limitations and exclusions in the PPI policy.
The policy excluded claims resulting from any medical condition which Mr D knew about at 
the start of the policy. And I havent  seen clear  evidence that Mr D was made sufficiently  
aware of this term during the sale.
Santander has said that these exclusions wouldve been discussed with Mr D at the sale and 
that he wouldve  been given a copy of the policy summary which included them as well. But I 
havent seen any further evidence that the exclusions were  discussed with Mr D. And, while  
the exclusion is in the policy summary,  I dont think that it was prominent enough to make 
Mr D sufficiently aware of it. So I dont think these exclusions  were  made  clear  to Mr D.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mr D because  hes told us that at the time of this sale he 
was suffering from a medical condition. Hes told us he saw a doctor about his condition who 
prescribed him medication and advised  he take time off work.  Mr D also said he was on and 
off work with this condition throughout the year surrounding  the sale.
I appreciate that Mr D didnt tell us about this condition  when he first brought  his complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, and that Santander has asked to see some documentary  
evidence of his condition. But, due to the nature of his condition and his circumstances  at the 
time I think its reasonable that Mr D didnt mention it previously. And, based on the details 
hes given us about his condition at the time, Im satisfied that he had it at the time and I 
dont think its necessary to require any further proof from him.
Based on what Mr D has told us, I dont think hed have taken the policy  out if it had been 
made clear to him that any time off work as a result  of this condition  wouldnt have been 
covered by it. So I think hes lost out as a result  of Santander not telling making the 
exclusion clear to him.
putting things right
Santander doesnt have to refund any of the cost of the PPI sold in 2001.
But Santander should put Mr D in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out the PPI 
in 2004. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already,  and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr D the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year from then on.
Ref: DRN21549613If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partially  uphold Mr D and Ms Ls complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2154961