K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage  with Halifax  - which later became part of 
Bank of Scotland  during a meeting at one of its branches. At the same  time Mr and Mrs W 
took out PPI to cover Mr Ws income  and protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr W 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
The policy cost £9.66 a month  and it provided a benefit  to approximately match 
Mr and Mrs Ws monthly mortgage  payment  of £200  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence  
showed that Mr and Mrs W chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate  
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs W disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs W 
with enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed decision about it. It 
also had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable  for them based on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 23 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice about  PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in October  1996.  Both Bank of Scotland  and Mr and Mrs W say it 
was sold in a branch.  I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said to Mr and Mrs W and I have 
no documentation from the time such as an application form or agreement. Bank  of Scotland  
has provided screen shots about  the sale which appear to show the answers to some 
questions about  the suitability of the policy such as whether Mr and Mrs W had any existing 
medical issues.
Ref: DRN20531812I accept it is possible Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr and Mrs W a choice about taking PPI. 
I also accept it is possible Bank of Scotland gave them  the impression they had to take it out. 
But it seems  more likely Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs W the opportunity to take out the 
policy or decline it as part of their mortgage  application, and that they chose to take it out, 
but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because had they 
chosen not to purchase PPI, or had it been  added  to their account  without either their 
knowledge or consent, I wouldve expected them to query or challenge this shortly 
afterwards, especially as I think its likely that the PPI cost made their monthly repayments 
shown on their statements nearly  £10 higher than the monthly cost of the advance  they 
would have seen  in their loan offer. I also think that the screen shots provide some evidence  
that Bank  of Scotland were trying to establish  whether the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs W rather than just giving it to them.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint) it is more 
likely than not Bank of Scotland  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs W as compulsory or that 
it didnt tell them about the policy at all. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs W properly  advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs W lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W. I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs W were  given  about  PPI. For 
example whether the policys costs and benefits were made clear to them  and if they were 
told about the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover.  I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs W 
agreed to take the cover  out without knowing anything about  it, but I dont know if they 
received everything  they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Mr and Mrs W that they take out PPI to cover Mr W. I 
accept Mr and Mrs W may not have been  treated  fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out as a result.  I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr W was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs W would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Bank  of Scotland had given them  
more information.  My reasons are as follows:
Mr W was eligible  for his cover and all its benefits
Mr W was employed and in good  health  at the time, so it doesnt  appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms.
Mr and Mrs W were under 25 years of age and the mortgage provided for their home 
together. I note that Mrs W had some income, savings and insurance cover  and 
Mr W had up to 6 months of sick pay entitlement from his employer, which  could 
have helped them make the mortgage payments  if Mr W was off work ill. But the 
policy would have  paid out in addition to Mr Ws sick pay and for longer than his 
employer if necessary  up to 12 months  for each claim. Mr and Mrs W had limited  
other means to help them  if Mr W lost his job. So I think  Mr and Mrs W had a need 
for Mr Ws cover and that it would have  been  useful  to them  if Mr W found  he was 
unable to work. It could have  helped them financially at what  would be a difficult time 
- it could  have helped them protect their home.
Ref: DRN20531813I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £10 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Mr and Mrs W may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland  in its 
dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the reasons 
Ive detailed above, I think Mr and Mrs W would  have been in the same  position if 
Bank of Scotland had done  more and properly advised and informed them  - I think they 
would have still taken  out the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs W have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053181