K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains about the amount that shes been  charged by Arval UK Limited for damage  
to a car that she returned when her hire agreement ended. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms D under a hire agreement with Arval  that she signed in July 
2015. Ms D returned  the car in August 2018 when the agreement ended and it was 
inspected by a third party on behalf of Arval. A damage recharge schedule  was prepared 
which identified three scuffed wheels, a dented front left wing and a dented left quarter panel 
 and it recommended charges for that damage totalling £570.  The cars mileage was shown  
on the schedule  as being 29,115 miles. Arval charged Ms D £570 for the damage and a 
payment was collected from her account.  Ms D complained to Arval about  that charge.  But 
she wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
the damage wasnt fair wear and tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  guidelines on fair wear and tear. And he couldnt say that Arval  had 
been wrong in charging Ms D for that damage.
Ms D has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
there were no dents to the side panels  of the car and the photos dont show any 
evidence of dents  so those charges still remain disputed;
she accepts the charges  for the scratches on the alloy wheels;
she inspected the car on the morning of collection  and found  no dents (and she says 
that had there been any dents she wouldve had any damage corrected by her own 
garage at a considerably lower cost than shes been charged by Arval);
the charges  were  disputed with the inspector  who said that an independent assessor  
would check the car and report back  to Arval prior to any charges being raised  but 
that didnt happen  as the next morning she received an invoice for the alleged  
damage  which  she disputed but Arval  took the money for the charges from her 
account; and 
the damage recharge schedule was signed  by her representative but she felt 
intimated and threatened and if that hadnt happened she wouldve refused to sign 
over the car until the dispute was settled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The hire agreement sets out at clause  2.1.3 the obligations of the parties when the car is 
returned. It says that Arvals representative  will make an initial  report on the condition  of the 
car and that Arval  has the right to charge for any repairs (whether or not carried out) to any 
damage that would  constitute unfair  wear  and tear.
Arval has provided  a copy of the damage  recharge  schedule that was prepared  when  Ms D 
returned her car. The photos in the schedule show two small dents on the car and damage 
to three  of the wheels. Ms D has accepted the charge of £180 for repairs  to the three scuffed 
Ref: DRN22531582wheels  so I wont  consider  those charges any further. The schedule includes a 
recommended charge  of £195  for each of the dents. 
The dents can be seen  in the photos   but theyre  not clear  and obvious   and I consider the 
dents to be minor.  But Im satisfied that they wouldnt be assessed  to be fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  guidelines  on fair wear 
and tear. I consider it to be more likely  than not that the dents (and the scuffed wheels) were 
present when Ms D returned the car and that Arval is entitled to charge the recommended  
amounts for that damage. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the third party  inspector acted 
incorrectly when it collected  the car. Nor am I persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to 
show that it intimated  or threatened Ms Ds representative. 
Arval has collected  payment  for the damage  from Ms Ds account. And I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require it to refund any of that amount 
to Ms D - or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
my decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253158