K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  about U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) avoiding  her car insurance policy after 
making a claim.
background
Ms A made a claim on her car insurance  policy with UKI after it was stolen in February  2019.  
While looking  in to the claim  UKI found that Ms As son, a named driver on the policy, was 
the registered and legal  owner of the car. UKI thought Ms A had failed to take reasonable 
care when setting up the policy as shed declared  herself as the cars owner and registered 
keeper. They said had they known  differently then they wouldnt have offered cover  to Ms A.
UKI avoided  the policy and so didnt consider Ms As claim for the stolen car. They also 
returned the premiums  Ms A had paid from when the policy  came  in to effect.
Ms A complained to UKI about their decision  to avoid the policy  but they didnt change their 
position. Ms A remained unhappy and referred  the matter to our service.
One of our investigators  looked in to it but she didnt think  UKI had acted unfairly by avoiding  
the policy. She said Ms A had confirmed  in a telephone call when setting up the policy that 
she was the owner  and registered keeper of the car. And that UKIs underwriting  criteria 
shows they wouldnt have  offered  Ms A cover if theyd known otherwise. She therefore 
thought there had been a qualifying  misrepresentation and that it was reasonable for UKI to 
avoid the policy and return the premiums  Ms A had paid.
Ms A disagreed and so the matter has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to firstly acknowledge  the difficult circumstances around the theft of the car. I 
understand Ms As son was held at knife point when it happened  and so I realise this 
wouldve been a very traumatic  experience. I also appreciate the avoidance of the policy  has 
put Ms A and her son in a difficult financial  position as there is finance outstanding  on the 
car. But what I have to consider is whether UKI has acted unfairly and, while  Im sympathetic 
to Ms A and her sons circumstances, I dont think they have. Ill explain why.
In order to treat Ms As policy as though  it never existed, UKI has to show  that the provisions 
of the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) have been 
met. Ms A had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
bought the policy. But for there  to be a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA, UKI has 
to show that they asked  clear questions to which Ms A gave inaccurate answers. They  must 
also show that if shed  given the correct  answers,  they wouldve acted differently  by not 
offering the policy to Ms A at all, or by doing so on different terms.
When Ms A called UKI to set up the policy she was asked who is the owner and registered 
keeper of the vehicle? . To which she replied, me. I think the question asked was clear.  So 
Im satisfied there was a misrepresentation as Ms A gave an inaccurate answer.
Ref: DRN27057802UKI also sent Ms A policy documentation  including  a Motor Insurance Schedule. This 
showed Ms A, the policyholder, as the legal owner  and register  keep of the car. But the 
cover letter gave the follow warning:
Please read the documents carefully  to ensure that all the information is correct and that 
the cover  meets  your requirements. You must take care to provide  us with accurate 
information. If any of these details are incorrect, no longer entirely accurate or if you are 
unsure about  them,  then please call us immediately or go online to [website]  as incorrect  
information could  adversely affect your policy, including  invalidating your policy and 
causing claims to be rejected or not fully paid.
Im therefore  satisfied UKI made  Ms A sufficiently  aware of the importance for the 
information she provided to be correct. And that the implication if it wasnt is that it could  
invalidate her policy and result in claims being rejected. I appreciate Ms A says that she 
made a genuine  mistake  and that although  the car finance is in her sons  name they share 
the payments.  While that might be true, I dont think it changes  what happened  here.  Im 
satisfied UKI asked a clear question to Ms A and that she gave  an inaccurate answer. I also 
think its reasonable for Ms A to have read the policy documents, as UKI recommended, and 
upon realising  this inaccuracy she couldve notified  them of it. I cant  see that this happened.
UKI has provided us with the underwriting criteria to show Ms A wouldnt have been offered 
a policy  had they known her son was the legal owner and register keeper of the car. And so, 
in line with CIDRA, I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation here. I therefore  think  it 
was reasonable  for UKI to have treated the policy as if it never  existed  and thereby  not 
consider the claim  for the stolen car.
UKI has refunded  the premiums Ms A paid and I think this is fair in the circumstances. I 
appreciate Ms A feels shes been treated unfairly  and that this has put her, and her son, in a 
difficult financial position as theyre still paying off the car but with nothing to show  for it. 
While I understand why she may think UKIs  decision is harsh, given the consequences,  I 
dont think theyve acted  unreasonably by avoiding the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2705780