K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
I think Capital One made  it clear  that Mr M didnt  have to take the PPI and he chose to take 
it. Mr M took the PPI when he applied for his credit card by post.  His credit  card application 
had boxes to tick to say either yes or no to PPI. And I think  Capital One likely added  the 
PPI only after it received an application from Mr M saying yes to the PPI.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M - so it didnt have  to check the PPI was right 
for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr M chose to take the cover, so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover at the time. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, the PPI benefit would 
have been paid in addition to Mr Ms work  sick pay or redundancy pay  and could be paid 
for up to twelve months. And from what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time,  Mr M 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover - so if something went  
wrong the cover would have been useful  for him. It also looks  like the cover was affordable.
Mr M hasnt  been able to give us anything to show what work sick pay he was entitled to or 
what savings he had available to help at the time.  Thats  not surprising given how long ago 
all this was. But taking  everything I do have into account, including all the things Ive said 
above, what I have  doesnt make  me think that better information  about the cover wouldve 
changed Mr Ms decision to take the cover.
What Ive said above means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
to Mr M. But Capital One has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Ms points,  including what hes said about not needing  the cover  
because of his work  benefits. But, for the reasons Ive already  given  above,  these points  
dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN23615052my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2361505