K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage. Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham and Gloucester at the time, 
mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Mr A says it was not made clear the PPI was optional. But hes not told us much more  about 
what happened - and while this isnt surprising  considering the sale took place so long ago  
this is something I have to keep  this in mind when  deciding what is more likely to have  
happened. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr As mortgage  application  form which includes an option  for the PPI. 
The yes box has been ticked  to state that Mr A wished to apply for the cover  and has 
completed a separate PPI proposal  form. But there  was also the option  to tick the no box if 
Mr A didnt want it. Mr A signed  the mortgage  application, agreeing to its contents. Ive also 
seen a copy of the separate  PPI application  form which was completed  with information 
about Mr As requirements  for the policy. Whilst the copy Ive seen hasnt been signed,  Ive 
also seen that Mr A signed direct debit mandate giving Lloyds permission to take the PPI 
premiums from his chosen account. And Ive seen  a welcome letter which  was sent to Mr A 
after the PPI was taken out, confirming he had chosen to take the policy and included  a 
schedule of the cover. So overall  I think it was clear the PPI was optional, and Mr A chose to 
take out the cover, knowing it was something  he didnt have to have  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this.
Mr A also says he felt pressured into taking  the PPI. But Mr A hasnt told us why he felt 
pressured. And without  any evidence to support what he has said,  I cant fairly and 
reasonably uphold the complaint on this point. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Mr A says he had sufficient sick pay from his employer at the time.  He also says he had a 
personal equity  plan and savings at the time which he couldve relied on to make his 
mortgage repayments. But Mr A was taking out borrowing secured against his home,  and he 
was solely  responsible for keeping up these repayments. The PPI couldve covered his 
mortgage payments  for up to 12 months,  so I think having this PPI in place wouldve 
provided him additional security and also freed up his sick pay and savings to be used for 
other expenses had he suddenly been unable to work. This wouldve also meant that his 
personal equity  plan wouldve been  protected. And so I dont think the policy  was unsuitable 
for Mr A and I think he had a need  for the cover.
Ref: DRN20128572Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the evidence suggests he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he said about being  out of work 
due to an injury and not making a claim on the policy because he didnt know  he had it. But 
as Ive said above, I think Mr A wouldve been aware of the PPI at the time he took it out. Its 
possible he had forgotten about the policy when he was off work with his injury,  but I cant  
say that this is Lloyds fault. And this doesnt  change my decision about what happened  at 
the point of sale.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. But Lloyds will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr A any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr A the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr A 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20128573
Ref: DRN2012857