K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs security processes. He also says they did not 
reply to his emails when  he initially got in touch with them about  it.
background
Mr D made  a transfer of £3500 to an account  in his name with another provider on 
3rd January  2019.  As HSBC couldnt  get hold of Mr D, the transaction  was blocked. Mr D 
says that HSBC were  negligent in doing  this because they shouldve spotted that the 
payment was from him and that it was to an account that was listed  as one of his payees.  In 
addition to this, the payee  was one to which hed transferred money only two days before in 
a transaction that had been  blocked and then verified as genuine with HSBC. Mr D says that 
he could have been put in real difficulty if this had happened when hed been abroad. He 
says the decision  to block was made manually and it was not reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr D says he emailed HSBC  about what happened on 15th and 22nd January 2019 but did 
not receive a reply.  He says hes been  caused upset by the way HSBC  conducted  their 
security processes and hes spent  a considerable amount of time on this complaint. He 
would like an apology and compensation.
HSBC say that security  checks  occasionally are made to confirm  transactions are genuine 
for fraud prevention reasons. And when Mr D couldnt initially be contacted, the payment  
was blocked. Once theyd  spoken  to him, the payment was released. HSBC  say they hadnt 
received the two emails in January 2019.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Ds complaint. He did not think that HSBC had acted 
unreasonably in blocking the transactions  because they were following their security 
processes. While this may have  been inconvenient for Mr D, it was necessary for security 
reasons and the account was unblocked after less than 24 hours. Our adjudicator explained 
that he didnt think HSBC had to tell Mr D why his transaction was blocked because  it was 
part of their security process.  
While HSBC said they hadnt received Mr Ds two emails in January 2019, they did reply  to 
his emails in February  2019. So our adjudicator thought that theyd responded within  
required time frames. And while he accepted that Mr D has spent time on this complaint, he 
didnt think HSBC needed to do anything because in his view they had not acted  
unreasonably
Mr D does not agree so this case has been  passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear that Mr D feels  strongly about 
what has happened. And I can understand why he was upset to find his payment of £3500 
had been blocked when  it had been  made in the same way as another transaction confirmed 
as genuine only two days before. But I do not uphold this complaint and I shall explain my 
reasons.
Ref: DRN28088192There is no dispute about what happened  here. And Mr D has made it clear that he accepts 
that HSBC needs to have security processes in place to protect  both the bank and its 
customers against fraud and financial crime. 
His complaint is about the actual security process used by HSBC.  But I cant tell a bank what 
security checks  it should implement. And in any event I dont agree that HSBC  did anything 
wrong by blocking  the transaction  for £3500. I dont think  it would be reasonable to say that a 
payment made in the same  way as a previous one that has been verified as genuine a few 
days before  is immune from security checks.
Mr D is upset because he thinks a manual decision was made to block  this payment. But 
whether it was a manual decision or an automatic one, HSBC were just following their 
security processes which he accepts exist for valid reasons.
Mr D wants to know why HSBC blocked his transaction in the way they did. But HSBC  are 
not obliged to give him a reason other  than it was part of their security process. 
I appreciate that blocking the payment caused  Mr D inconvenience. But HSBC took steps to 
minimise this by trying to make contact with him by phone, secure message and letter. And 
while the secure message and letter only reached Mr D after hed spoken  to HSBC and the 
payment had been unblocked, it was not unreasonable  for HSBC to try and get in touch with 
him through  a range of means.
Mr D says that if hed been abroad, the blocking of a transaction couldve caused  him 
problems. But I cannot speculate on what could have happened and can only make a 
decision on the evidence  of what did actually happen. Here the £3500 payment was 
unblocked within 24 hours. And Mr D has said that he has not suffered any financial loss. 
I appreciate he has spent time pursuing this complaint  and I understand he is annoyed about  
what happened. But as I dont find that HSBC have done anything wrong, I wont  be asking 
them to do anything. 
Finally, while  its not the main point of Mr Ds complaint, I can understand why it would have 
been frustrating  not to receive a response  from HSBC to his two emails in January 2019. But 
HSBC say they did not receive these, and I can see that they did respond to emails in 
February 2019.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr D, but in my view HSBC have acted fairly and reasonably. So 
I wont be asking them to do anything. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2808819