K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The policy protected Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage monthly repayments in the event Mr P had an 
accident or became disabled or if he lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.   
Theres only limited information  about this mortgage   none of the original paperwork from 
the sale is available and HSBC couldnt confirm how it sold the mortgage  or PPI to Mr P. So 
weve relied a lot on information Mr and Mrs P have told us. 
Mr and Mrs P say they arranged their mortgage  and the PPI during a meeting in one of the 
banks branches  in June 1998.  This largely  seems to fit with what HSBCs records  suggest 
as well. So our adjudicator looked  at Mr and Mrs Ps complaint on this basis  but didnt think 
there was enough  evidence  to recommend upholding  the complaint.
Mr and Mrs P disagree. Their main complaint  is that they werent provided with sufficient 
information to make an informed choice about  PPI. Mr P said they didnt need the cover as 
he already had good sick pay arrangements through work.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain my reasons for saying this.
I dont know how HSBC  presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs P or explained it to them. And it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs P to recall everything in detail as the sale 
happened a long time ago. But where what happened isnt clear, I cant  fairly say that HSBC  
didnt make Mr and Mrs P aware  that PPI was optional. 
I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think is most likely. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs P not to choose  PPI if they didnt want to have  it. Their  
mortgage was a major financial commitment and their home  wouldve  been at risk if the 
mortgage payments  werent paid in full and on time each month. So, I can see why Mr and 
Mrs P mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
I can completely understand why they mightve  forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think  
its more likely that Mr and Mrs P decided they wanted to have the benefits the PPI offered 
and it was added to their account when they decided to buy the policy to cover Mr P. 
Ref: DRN21009862As Mr and Mrs P recall  being sold PPI during a meeting at the bank I think theres a chance 
that HSBC mightve  advised them to have the cover. To be as fair as possible to 
Mr and Mrs P, Im going  to assess  their complaint this way. If a business makes a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable .
It doesnt look to me as if PPI was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time. 
Mr P was eligible for the cover.  There were some things the policy  didnt cover.  But it doesnt 
look as if those applied  in Mr Ps case. As far as I can see he wasnt affected by any of the 
policy limitations or exclusions and he couldve benefitted from full cover under the policy.  
So, I dont think having more information about things the policy  didnt cover wouldve  
affected Mr and Mrs Ps decision to take out PPI to cover Mr P. 
The PPl policy Mr and Mrs P took out for Mr P provided cover  for short-term absences  from 
work (up to 12 months  at a time) and protected the mortgage monthly payments. It couldve 
paid out in the event  Mr P had an accident or he wasnt  able to work as a result  of sickness. 
It wouldve  paid out on top of sick pay  and for longer than it looks  as if he couldve 
depended on getting full sick pay from his employer.  The policy  wouldve provided valuable 
cover if he couldnt work  not just due to illness but also if he lost his job unexpectedly. 
Repeat claims were possible giving Mr and Mrs P long term protection whilst they were 
paying off their mortgage.
As the mortgage  was taken out when both Mr and Mrs P were  in paid work, I think it mightve  
been difficult for them to manage the mortgage monthly repayments for very long if Mr P 
wasnt working. So I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P.
Its possible some of the information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. I dont know if the PPI cost was explained to them when they bought  
the policy. But, from what Ive seen, it hasnt been  suggested that Mr and Mrs P couldnt 
afford the monthly  premiums. 
There may have been some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think that 
Mr and Mrs P still wouldve decided to buy the policy for Mr P even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  circumstances. I dont  think 
having clearer information wouldve stopped  them buying the PPI.
 
This means  I dont  find that Mr and Mrs P have  lost out as a result of anything that HSBC did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2100986