K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about Vitality Health Limiteds  handling of a claim made under a group 
private medical insurance policy. He also complains about its decision to categorise a 
medical problem  as chronic  under  the terms of the policy.
background
In 2016, Mr F had treatment for an abdominal fistula. The treatment was authorised  by 
Vitality. Shortly after the policy renewed, Vitality told him it was no longer going to cover a 
number of his medical  conditions  as it thought  these  were chronic, including abdominal 
fistulas, hernias,  adhesions and poor tissue healing. 
Vitality then agreed to cover some further treatment for Mr Fs fistula.  But Mr F says it was 
next to impossible to obtain authorisation for the final surgery. Although  Vitality did 
eventually cover the surgery, this took place on the final day of cover before Mr Fs employer 
transferred cover to a new provider. That meant  the aftercare had to be covered by the new 
provider. Mr F thinks Vitality deliberately  delayed  authorisation for the surgery  and should  
have honoured  its commitment to provide the further cover. He also disagreed  that his 
fistulas were a chronic condition. He brought a complaint to this service.
On 30 March 2019, I issued a provisional decision.  My findings were:
The policy  explains there isnt cover for chronic conditions.  It defines a chronic condition as:
A disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the following characteristics:
-it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
check-ups and/or  tests
-it needs ongoing or long-term control
-it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
-it continues indefinitely
-it has no known cure
-it comes back  or is likely to come back.
In July 2016, Mr F asked  Vitality to authorise a hospital admission as he had an abdominal 
fistula. As Mr F had been experiencing abdominal fistulas for some years, Vitality thought 
this may now be considered chronic under the policy  terms. It requested more information 
from his consultant, but before it received the information it needed, Mr F was due to go into 
hospital. Vitality therefore agreed to cover the hospital admission. Mr F received treatment 
and had a PEG feeding tube inserted. 
After Mr F had been discharged from hospital, Vitality decided  to categorise his abdominal 
fistulas as chronic (as well as a number of other conditions). However, Mr F needed the PEG 
tube removed. As Vitality  had covered the insertion of this, in February 2017, it said it would 
cover the removal. 
Mr F was admitted to hospital in April 2017,  but the PEG tube couldnt be removed. Vitality 
covered this hospital admission. 
In July 2017, Vitality  received confirmation  from Mr Fs consultant that his abdominal  wound  
had healed with no sign of the fistula anymore.  The consultant  thought the PEG tube should 
Ref: DRN20157852be removed. However,  because of Mr Fs various medical problems, Vitality wanted more  
information from the consultant. 
Mr F then wanted Vitality to cover  an MRI scan and CT scan which  his consultant  wanted to 
see to ensure the fistula had fully healed. Vitality  turned down this claim, as it thought this 
was routine monitoring of the fistula and therefore  excluded. 
Mr F therefore had to have the scans carried out on the NHS. After receiving the scan  
results, Vitality authorised the removal  of the PEG  tube and this took place on 30 September  
2017. This was the last day of cover  under the policy  as Mr Fs employer had chosen to 
move cover to another provider from 1 October  2017. Any costs  incurred  after that date were 
covered by the new provider.
was it fair for Vitality to rely on the chronic  conditions clause?
After Mr Fs hospital admission in 2016,  Vitality decided that his abdominal fistulas, hernias, 
adhesions and poor tissue healing would  be considered chronic under the policy  terms. 
Mr F has helpfully provided information  about his medical history from his treating consultant  
(Mr H) whose  care hes been  under for some years. 
Mr H explained that after suffering a splenic bleed  in December 2012, Mr F developed an 
entercutaneous fistula which was treated conservatively for some  time. Mr F ended  up with 
two discharging sinuses relating to a mesh repair of his abdominal wall. These areas  were  
closed in December  2015, but this area became  a further entercutaneous  fistula. Again, this 
was managed conservatively, but as it didnt  heal, he underwent  surgery  to treat not only his 
entercutaneous fistula but underlying  this multiple  enteroenteric fistula. Mr H says this 
seemed to be an extremely successful operation in terms of closing Mr Fs fistula.  He 
explained that Mr F is left with one small volume  leak at the lower end of his midline incision  
which once again  is being treated conservatively.
Mr H concluded by saying  the current fistula treatment related to a laparotomy for a splenic 
bleed, and then multiple attempts to close his fistulous process. He thought these  were  
acute problems relating to that laparotomy. And that each  time Mr F develops  a fistula, its 
perfectly reasonable to attempt conservative treatment, which is why Mr F has had 
prolonged treatment  of this condition. 
I appreciate that Mr Fs fistulas  relate back to the laparotomy he had following a splenic 
bleed in 2012. However since then he has had recurrent fistulas and poor tissue  healing,  
despite having both conservative  and active treatment. And when Mr H wrote his report, 
Mr F had a further volume leak at the lower end of his midline  incision which suggests further 
poor tissue healing.
Ive carefully read the policy definition of chronic  condition, and I think its reasonable to say 
Mr Fs fistulas and poor tissue healing need  ongoing  monitoring and control, and come back  
or are likely  to come back. That being the case,  I find it was reasonable for Vitality  to rely 
upon the chronic condition definition when it did. 
When Vitality  decided  to categorise Mr Fs fistulas as chronic, this decision was made  shortly  
after the policy had renewed. Mr F says if hed known  Vitality  would change the terms of the 
policy so soon after renewal, he wouldnt have renewed. He told our adjudicator he would 
have opted out and sought cover elsewhere.  
Ref: DRN20157853Given that the policy excludes chronic  conditions, Vitality was entitled to apply that clause 
whenever it thought  Mr Fs condition  had become chronic under the policy terms. The timing  
of Vitalitys decision was unfortunate, but I dont  think it deliberately waited until the policy  
had renewed before  making that decision. I therefore dont agree with Mr F that Vitality 
should return the years  premium. Furthermore, even if I had concluded  that Vitality should  
have applied  the chronic condition clause before the policy  renewal,  he had use of the policy  
to cover this chronic condition in the 2016/17 policy year and so thered be no basis  for a 
return of premium. 
did Vitality cause a delay in Mr Fs treatment?
As Vitality had provided cover for the insertion of the PEG feeding  tube during Mr Fs 2016 
hospital admission,  I think it was right that it also cover its removal even though  it had 
decided in the meantime that his condition was chronic. This is because  I see the insertion 
and removal as two stages of the same course of treatment and I think  it would be unfair for 
Vitality to withdraw cover whilst Mr F was between these stages. 
Vitality first agreed  to this in February 2017.  Mr F was admitted to hospital in April 2017,  and 
although he received treatment at the time, I understand  the PEG  tube couldnt  be removed. 
Vitality covered this hospital admission. 
Although Mr F then wanted the PEG tube removed in early  August 2017, Vitality wanted  
more information  about Mr Fs fitness for this surgery before it would agree to this. 
Presumably thats  because it didnt want to cover a further hospital  admission if the PEG  
tube again wasnt  removed. I think that was reasonable, particularly given there was no 
cover under the policy for Mr Fs condition,  and Vitality was covering the PEG tube removal 
on an ex-gratia basis (albeit that I think it was fair and reasonable for Mr F to expect this).
Vitality requested more  information from Mr Fs consultant, and this was received on 
7 August 2017.  Around the same time, Mr F asked Vitality if it would cover the MRI and CT 
scans. Vitality refused  and so Mr F had to have these done on the NHS.  
Mr F says Vitality  requested information from his consultant that it already had to cause a 
delay. I dont agree, but I dont think this really  matters, because the surgery  couldnt go 
ahead in any event  until Mr F had had the MRI and CT scans. 
However, I think Vitality should have  covered  the MRI and CT scans. I say that because it 
appears to have been accepted by Vitality that the PEG tube couldnt be removed  without 
the scans confirming  the fistula had healed.  Vitalitys own claim notes  say that it wanted  the 
scan results and assurance the fistula had healed before it could  approve  the hospital  
admission to remove the PEG tube.  Given that Vitality had already confirmed it would cover 
the cost of the PEG tube removal, it seems to me the MRI and CT scans were an integral  
part of that treatment. I think Vitality should  have covered these.  
The CT scan took place at the beginning of September  2017,  and although there was initially 
some confusion over whether or not the MRI scan was required,  this was done towards  the 
end of September 2017. Assuming the scans could have been done immediately if they had 
taken place privately, this led to a total delay  of around six weeks.
Ref: DRN20157854The surgery  eventually took place on 30 September 2017, which  was the last day of cover 
under the policy.  Although the surgery itself was covered by Vitality, cover ended  at midnight 
and so Mr Fs remaining  hospital admission and aftercare were covered by the new provider. 
If Mr F had had the scans carried out privately,  I cant be sure when the surgery to remove  
the PEG tube would have  taken place. But I think its likely this would have happened about 
five weeks sooner. That being the case,  Mr F wouldnt necessarily have  needed to claim 
under the new policy. Consequently, it may be appropriate  for Vitality to refund the excess  
Mr F paid the new provider. 
However, I dont know if Mr F made another claim under the new policy in that policy  year. If 
he did, then he would  have been  liable to pay the policy excess  in any event. I would 
therefore only require  Vitality to refund the excess Mr F paid the new provider (plus  interest)  
if the only claim paid during the 2017/18  policy year related to the hospital admission that 
began on 30 September 2017 and related to treatment which was completed by 5 November 
2017 (five weeks later).  If that is the case then Mr F should provide written confirmation  of 
this from the new provider in response to this provisional decision. 
Regardless of whether  or not I require Vitality to refund the excess Mr F paid the new 
provider, I think Mr F was caused some unnecessary  inconvenience  by its decision to refuse 
to cover the MRI and CT scans,  as I think its likely this led to a delay of about five weeks in 
Mr F having the surgery to have  the PEG tube removed. I therefore intend  to require Vitality 
to pay Mr F £250 compensation to recognise this. 
Mr F also wants Vitality  to refund the excess he says he paid it, as well as outpatient  costs  it 
didnt cover. 
Presumably Mr F is referring to an excess he paid to Vitality  for the treatment  he had in the 
2016/17 policy year. Given  that he used the policy  during that year,  I see no reason for him 
to receive a refund of this excess. 
Vitality didnt cover some  outpatient  treatment because Mr F had exceeded his annual  limit. I 
also see no reason  to require Vitality  to cover any shortfall here.  
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Both parties  responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  accepted my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change these. 
In my provisional decision,  I said I would only require  Vitality to refund Mr Fs policy  excess 
for the 2017/18  policy year if the only claims paid during that year related to the hospital 
admission that began on 30 September 2017  and related to treatment which  was completed 
by 5 November  2017.
In response, Mr F says he did have to make  a claim relating to this surgery as he had a post 
surgical consultation. However, he hasnt told us when this consultation took place. So long 
Ref: DRN20157855as it took place before 5 November 2017  (and there were no further claims paid after this 
date) then Vitality would  need to refund his policy excess. 
Therefore, if Mr F wants Vitality to reimburse  his 2017/18 policy  excess, he would need  to 
provide it with confirmation  from his new provider that the only claims  paid in the 2017/18 
policy year related to his 30 September 2017 hospital admission and related to treatment 
which was completed  by 5 November 2017.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr F 
£250 compensation. 
If Mr F provides Vitality  Health Limited  with confirmation from his new provider regarding the 
2017/18 excess and it meets  the conditions Ive set out above,  Vitality Health Limited should 
refund him the excess he paid for that policy year. *Interest should be added at the rate of 
8% simple  per annum from the date the excess was paid to the date of settlement. 
Mr F should provide  the confirmation from his new provider  to Vitality Health Limited within  
one month  of accepting  this decision, otherwise it will not need to refund him the excess.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 may 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If Vitality considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr F how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr F a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2015785