K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that Admiral Insurance  Company Limited referred them  to an 
accident management company (AMC)  after Mrs P called to make  a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
background
When Mr P was involved in an accident, that wasnt his fault,  Mrs P called Admiral to report 
the accident. As a result of that call Mrs P agreed to an AMC dealing with things instead of 
claiming on her policy with Admiral.
When there were problems with the repairs Mr and Mrs P complained to Admiral.  They  were  
unhappy theyd  been referred  to an AMC. Admiral said it had given Mrs P two options   
either use the non-fault service  which  meant they didnt  need to pay an excess and could get 
a replacement vehicle  or claim on their own policy where an excess  would be payable. It 
said Mrs P chose to use the non-fault service.  
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator didnt 
think Admiral had made it clear that Mr and Mrs P would be using a different  company. He 
also thought Admiral had only told Mr and Mrs P the benefits  of using the service. He 
thought this had caused Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience and recommended 
Admiral pay Mr P £200 compensation.
Admiral didnt agree as it thought its referral  was clear. It asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Admirals 
referral was clear enough for Mr P to understand the choice he was making.  Ill now explain 
why.
Ive listened to the call between Admiral  and Mrs P where she chose  to use the AMC. In that 
call Admirals representative  says that she has two options. One is to use the non-fault 
service available  to you. He says this means  there is no excess  to pay and is provided by a 
company that Ill refer to as A. He says A may also be able to provide  her with a replacement 
vehicle. The representative says the other option  is to claim on her own policy where  an 
excess will be payable.  He then asks if shed  like to use the non-fault service.
While I accept Admiral  told Mrs P the name of the company that provide this service,  I dont 
think its clear  that this is a separate company. I also dont think Admiral did enough  to 
explain what  these options  mean  for her. For example, it didnt tell her that she can look to 
recover any excess she pays out. And it also doesnt mention that her policy  provides  a hire 
car if hers is being repaired. I also think in asking her if she wanted to use the non-fault 
service Admiral made it sound  as though that was the natural  option for her to choose.
I dont think Admirals referral was clear. And Im satisfied that had Mrs P been provided with 
better information then she would have  been  able to make a more  informed decision. I 
accept that by not having done  this caused Mr P distress and inconvenience when trying to 
resolve problems with the repairs.  And I agree with our investigator that £200 is a fair and 
Ref: DRN20539292reasonable amount for Admiral to pay Mr and Mrs P to compensate for the unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr and Mrs P £200 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2053929