K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc didnt credit all the cash  she deposited into her 
account.
background
Miss M went into a branch of Santander on 25 June  2018 to deposit £1,900 in cash  as she 
says she did every month. She tried to use the deposit machine and paid in £660 first. She 
then says that she put in a further  £1,240  but this was rejected by the machine. She went  to 
the counter with the remaining cash and was told by the cashier first that there  was £980 in 
notes and then £960  the latter amount was then credited. So she complained that her 
deposit was short by £280.
Santander wouldnt credit  this money to her. It said that there were no notes found in the 
deposit machine  when  two staff checked it and that it balanced that day. Santander said that 
the second attempted deposit  to the machine by Miss M was rejected as there  were  too 
many notes put in at once. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-Miss M had paid in cash  monthly but the maximum amounts  on any day had varied 
during the months  before June in 2018 between £1,590 and £1,900. There was no 
other evidence about  the source of this money.
-The deposit machine had been used by a different customer  without problems 25 
minutes after the successful deposit by Miss M. 
-There was no evidence from the records held by Santander of a cash discrepancy  
with that machine.
Miss M didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed. She said that she wanted to 
make clear  that she had paid in a similar  amount  of cash each month. But that sometimes  
she had done  this over more than one day. She had been made aware of a recent written 
statement from the branch manager at the time in which  hed said she was confused  about  
the amount of money she had to pay in. She strongly disputed that and said that she was 
unhappy that this evidence had been  produced so late and when there  was no statement 
from the cashier. Miss M maintained that Santander was trying to cover  up her money 
having been taken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Ill need to make  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  thats what I think most likely happened.
Having looked  at statements of Miss Ms bank account I understand what  she is saying 
about the amount of cash she paid in each month  being about the same.  But that in some 
other months she hadnt paid it all in on one day. I think the point our adjudicator was trying 
to get at was whether she always came on one day with the same  amount  which would 
have been a relevant pattern to take into account.
Ref: DRN24731662The issue  in dispute here is narrow. And it is that Miss M says that she put £280  more into 
the deposit machine for the second  deposit  than she received back. I dont think  shes  
saying she lost sight of the money she received back. And she was present when the 
cashier at the counter dealt with that. 
Ive seen clear evidence from Santander of her use of the machine at this time. And of the 
error message regarding  this second  entry stating that the maximum number of notes for an 
individual deposit had been exceeded.  Miss Ms position is that the £280 must have been  
kept by the machine at that time. Based  on what Santander has said there are two ways  that 
could possibly happen. Either the notes  could be jammed in the machine or they were 
rejected and placed in a secure  purge  bin.
My understanding is that the machine was opened to check  for jammed notes  while Miss M 
was in branch.  And staff said that nothing was found. There is no record of an error then with 
the machine as it was used by another customer some 25 minutes  later. And Santander  
says that when the safe inside the machine was opened the next day there was also no 
evidence of any malfunction.  The evidence  Ive seen is that the machine  balanced  and this 
was also confirmed with the cash deposit  centre  of Santander.
Im satisfied that Santander undertook  the necessary steps   to investigate what  happened 
and has scrutinised what its branch staff said. Unfortunately  its not been  possible for this 
service to view the branch  CCTV from that day. But its not in dispute that Miss M returned  to 
the counter with the notes  that were rejected by the machine however she carried these.
I dont doubt that Miss M believed she had £1,900 in cash  to pay in that day. There  is 
nothing else to support  that and Im afraid that all the evidence  from Santander  is counter to 
this. As Ive said Im considering what is most likely and I dont  find on balance  that 
Santander has failed  to credit £280 of cash to her account. So I wont  be asking  it to do 
anything more. I fully appreciate  how disappointed  Miss M will be by my decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 January 2020
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2473166