K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Policywise Ltd mis-sold her a family fleet policy  that charged an 
additional premium  when the vehicles  insured  were  changed. She complains  this was 
different to her previous  policy and she wanted like for like. 
She also complains she is being asked to repay  the balance of the premium despite  having 
cancelled the policy, an additional premium was charged when changing vehicles and that 
her proof of no claims  had the incorrect address on it. She is also unhappy that she didnt 
know whether or not the horsebox was covered for breakdowns. 
background
Policywise is an insurance broker, meaning they can arrange  insurance for customers from 
across the market. It isnt an underwriter  or insurer. For Mrs Ss policy  that was QIC Europe.
In September  2016 Mrs S was looking  for a new policy to cover  a number of vehicles owned 
by the family. This included three cars and one horsebox. At the time Mrs S was a housewife 
and her husband, a named driver, was a project  manager. As well as insuring the vehicles 
breakdown cover was provided for all the vehicles, including the horsebox. This information  
was contained  on the statement of fact.
In August  2017  Mrs S was sent a renewal pack.  The premium had increased  due to the 
Insurance Premium Tax and windscreen excess increasing. Initially  Mrs S said she was 
going to shop around as she was unhappy with the cost. But the policy  automatically 
renewed on 13 September  2017. Mrs S contacted Policywise on the same  day to amend 
some of the details; both her and her husband  had a change of employment status. She also 
amended the value  of one of the vehicles. 
In April 2018, one of the vehicles was involved in an accident and written off. Mrs S was 
looking to remove two other vehicles from the policy and add another.  She was provided  
with a quote which resulted in an increase in premium. Mrs S complained as this wasnt  the 
type of policy she had wanted   she had wanted  something like a motor traders  policy  that 
would allow the changing of vehicles  without any additional cost.  She also complained about 
the other matters set out above. 
Policywise didnt  uphold her complaint and so she asked us to look into it. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint either.  He was satisfied that Policywise wouldnt have been able 
to sell Mrs S a motor traders policy as she wasnt a motor trader. And he concluded any 
issues over the cancellation,  the additional premium and the no claims letter were matters  
for QIC not Policywise. 
Mrs S has asked  for the matter to be reviewed, She has pointed out that she wanted a policy  
like a motor traders.  She also doesnt think we have all the relevant information and weve 
made assumptions, as the person that sold her the policy no longer works for Policywise. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Ref: DRN24583462Any concerns Mrs S has about being  quoted an additional premium  and the incorrect  
address being  on the no claims letter are correctly directed  to QIC, although I understand  
she didnt actually pay any increase in premium.  Ordinarily, she would also be directed to 
QIC for any concerns she had about  being  asked to pay the remainder of the annual  
premium following the claim. But I understand this debt has since been passed  to 
Policywise.
Mrs Ss premium  for insuring her vehicles was an annual premium, which I understand she 
paid monthly. So when a claim was made on the policy for one of the vehicles only part of 
the annual premium had been  paid. I understand QIC has refunded part of the premium  for 
the other vehicles when  the policy was cancelled. But as a claim has been paid for the 
vehicle written off it is right that the full premium is payable  for that vehicle  QIC was on risk 
and has paid out. And as the debt has passed  to Policywise I find no basis  on which  to say it 
cant ask Mrs S to pay that. 
I turn now to the mis-sale  of this policy. Mrs S says she wanted  a policy  like a motor traders  
policy. Its hard to know exactly what she means  by this. If she wanted a policy where  she 
could insure multiple  vehicles and change the vehicles insured then thats what  she was 
sold. Im not aware of any policy on the market that doesnt relook  at the risk and the 
premium when vehicles  are changed  (including  those for the motor  trade).  After  all different 
vehicles represent  different  levels  of risk which the premium  is reflective  of. Its possible that 
an insurer might  not charge for the amendment to be made i.e. an administration charge. But 
that is very different to not charging  (or refunding)  any difference  in premium. 
Im also mindful that Mrs S renewed her policy when she didnt have to. She had plenty of 
opportunity to shop  around.  And Im aware  her previous insurer  did, in fact, continue to offer 
its family fleet policy. So Mrs S had other  options  if she wasnt  happy with her policy. Overall, 
Im not persuaded the policy was mis-sold.  
Mrs S believes we have made  assumptions as the person who sold the policy is no longer at 
Policywise. If information is missing, then reasonable assumptions might  have to be made. If 
Mrs S doesnt agree  with those she can set out why  although she hasnt  done  so here. In 
the event, we have been  provided with all of the policy information, including the statements 
of fact, the certificates of insurance,  the policy summary and booklet and Policywises 
system notes. Im satisfied  this is sufficient information on which  to reach  a fair and 
reasonable decision. 
Finally, Mrs S complains she was never made  aware of whether her horsebox was covered 
for breakdown. Im satisfied this information was clearly set out on the statements of fact. 
And information on how the breakdown  could  be used was contained in the policy  booklet.  
When Mrs S contracted Policywise about  the breakdown cover, it also confirmed coverage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Ref: DRN24583463Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2458346