K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
From what we know about how Bank of Scotland sold PPI at the time, I think  Bank  of 
Scotland wouldve made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him. The PPI wouldve  paid his mortgage  for up to 24 months if hed been off sick or 
unemployed. This wouldve  protected him from falling behind with his mortgage 
repayments and potentially losing his home. While he had some sick pay this wouldnt 
have lasted  as long. And he only had a small amount  of savings, which the PPI wouldve 
protected and allowed him to use for living expenses instead of to pay his mortgage.  So it 
looks like the PPI was right for him. Also, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think hed have been  made aware  of the cost of the policy, and I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Mr C back  some 
of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2159754