K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained that Sabre Insurance Company Limited rejected a claim she made  
under her car insurance policy because she was commuting  when  the incident happened. 
Miss H didnt have cover  for commuting at the time.  
background
Miss H bought a car insurance policy  with her insurer, Sabre through  a comparison website.
In November 2018 Miss H reported  an incident  to Sabre. She said she was travelling to work 
at the time. 
Sabre said because her policy  didnt insure  her for commuting, it wouldnt deal with her 
claim. It said Miss H would need  to pay an additional premium to include commuting cover 
for the remainder of the policy year. 
Miss H paid this. But she complained to Sabre about  its decision to reject her claim.  Miss H 
told us Sabre declared her car a total loss. But Sabre said its decision was correct.  So 
Miss H asked us to look at her complaint. 
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. He said Miss H had been 
asked a clear question,  which she didnt  answer correctly. So  in line with the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), he thought  Miss H 
misrepresented the facts  when she bought the policy. So the remedy should have been for 
Sabre to first decide if the misrepresentation was deliberate or careless. 
As Miss H told Sabre when she reported the incident that she was travelling to work, he 
didnt think the misrepresentation was deliberate. It seems Miss H believed  she was insured 
to use her car to travel to work and so he thought shed carelessly answered the question as 
to what she used her car for. The investigator  thought Sabre should  therefore pay 98% of 
the claim.  This represented the difference in the premium   which  Sabre was able to insure 
Miss H for  if Miss H had answered  the question about commuting correctly. This was in 
line with CIDRA. 
Sabre doesnt  agree that CIDRA applies to Miss Hs case. It says she used her car outside  
of the scope of the policy and therefore Miss H was in breach of the policy terms. So Sabre  
says its potentially being asked to backdate cover - which isnt something it should be doing. 
Sabre would like an ombudsman to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. 
Miss H was asked the following question with a list of options  to choose from when she 
applied for her policy with Sabre:
What do you use the car for?
Social, Domestic and Pleasure (SDP) only
Ref: DRN28641052This is when  you use the car for general  day to day appointments, visiting  family  and 
friends, shopping.
Social, Domestic Pleasure  & Commuting (SDPC)
This is the above  but also includes commuting to and from your single permanent 
place of work.
SDPC & Business  Use
This is the above  but also includes business use. Business use is travelling to and 
from more than one location for business purposes. Business  use can be selected to 
include your spouse  / additional  drivers.
Because Miss H was asked a clear  question when she bought the policy,  I think  its fair and 
reasonable for CIDRA  to apply. 
If a customer has answered a question incorrectly  and the insurer found  this to be 
deliberate or reckless   it can cancel the policy as if it didnt  exist,  refuse  to meet  the claim, 
and keep the premium  paid.  
But  if the misrepresentation was careless   and the insurer would have provided insurance 
if the question  had been answered correctly  then CIDRA says that it should  charge the 
higher premium and pay a proportionate  amount of the claim. 
We know that Sabre  would have provided insurance  cover   as it charged  Miss H a higher 
premium for future commuting cover under the policy. 
As Miss H told Sabre she was travelling  to work when  she reported the incident, I dont think 
she deliberately  mispresented  the facts  when she bought the policy. She made  no attempt to 
hide this fact from Sabre. So I think Miss H was careless in answering the question about 
what she intended to use her car for. And as the difference in premium is 2% compared to 
the price she was paying, I dont think Miss H looked  to gain financially by deliberately 
misrepresenting the facts.
I agree  that Sabre  clearly set out the limitation  of use in Miss Hs policy  documents.  But this 
doesnt change  the fact that Miss H made a careless mistake when answering  a clear 
question on the aggregate website.
I understand Sabre  believes we are asking it to provide cover when none was in place and 
so it shouldnt have  to meet the claim under the terms of the Road Traffic Act (RTA). But Ive 
considered both the RTA and CIDRA   and I think overall a fair and proportionate outcome 
is for Sabre  to meet 98% of the claim. 
I think Sabre should pay interest on the total loss settlement it pays  Miss H (minus the 
excess) at a rate of 8% simple interest  a year from the date it would have  paid the claim to 
the date it pays  Miss H. This is because Miss H has been without this sum as a result  of 
Sabres decision.  
Ref: DRN28641053my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Sabre Insurance  Company Limited to do the following:
Meet 98% of the claim from November  2018  under the remaining policy terms 
and in line with CIDRA.
Pay interest on the total loss settlement at a rate of 8% simple interest from the 
date it would have  paid the claim to the date it pays  Miss H.
If Sabre Insurance  Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It 
should also give Miss H a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864105