K820x#14complaint 
Mr W is unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his accounts and wont give him a reason as 
to why. 
background 
Barclays wrote to Mr W on 30 March 2019 explaining that it would be closing his two 
personal accounts on 31 May 2019. 
Mr W has said this was off the back of his business  bank  account also being  closed   and 
later his Barclaycard  as well.  He  feels the closure  of all his accounts stems from an incident  
his co-director reported to Barclays following  his company receiving a scam email.  He 
explained that the other directors have had their accounts closed too. 
Mr W raised a complaint about  his personal  accounts being closed. He explained he is a 
long standing customer and has always  kept his accounts in order yet hed been  provided 
with no explanation as to why Barclays had taken this action. He wanted the accounts 
reopened and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by the closures.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  Barclays was entitled  to close 
Mr Ws accounts in line with the terms and conditions and didnt have  to provide him with the 
reason for doing so. 
Mr W remained unhappy and re-emphasised that he feels Barclays have treated him 
unfairly, particularly in light of the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  (FCA)  policy on treating 
customers fairly, in closing his accounts  without any clear explanation.  He pointed out a 
press article  about Barclays closing down  a customers account incorrectly when they 
themselves had reported a fraud  and feels this may be what  Barclays  has done  to him too. 
He therefore asked for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the remit of its commercial discretion as a business, a bank is entitled  to decide who it 
provides an account  to and close a customers account if it wishes.  This goes both ways  as 
a customer is also entitled to close their account if they wish. This being  said, a bank  must  
do so in line with the terms and conditions.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws accounts  say that Barclays can close an account by 
giving at least two months notice.  Barclays  did this when it wrote to Mr W on 30 March 
2019, saying his accounts would  be closed on 31 May 2019.  
Ive considered the press article Mr W provided and Ive reviewed his complaint on its 
individual facts  and reached an outcome I think is fair and reasonable. Despite the terms and 
conditions a bank  should still have regard  for the individual circumstances of their customer 
when making decisions  which  affect them, and must ensure their decision is not based on an 
improper reason.  Mr W suspects his accounts  have been closed down  because  a director of 
his company reported a scam.  Ive checked the basis for Barclays deciding to close his 
Ref: DRN29143822personal accounts and cant see they were illegitimate or based on Mr Ws company being 
targeted by a fraudster. 
I understand Mr Ws frustration that Barclays wont give him a proper explanation as to why it 
decided to close his accounts and I can understand why this doesnt feel fair. However, it is 
not obliged to do so, just as a customer wouldnt have to give a reason if they wanted to 
close their account. 
Ive seen from the evidence provided  that Barclays acted within  the remit of its commercial  
discretion when closing Mr Ws account  and has complied with its terms and conditions 
when doing so. When considering the individual circumstances of Mr Ws complaint, I dont 
think Barclays exercising this commercial  discretion, and keeping to the terms and 
conditions, represents  unfair treatment in relation to the FCAs policy  on treating customers  
fairly. 
So, while I appreciate Mr Ws frustration, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong or acted 
unfairly when closing his accounts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint against Barclays  Bank UK PLC.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2914382