K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A has complained about  the amount paid by Elite Insurance Company Limited  
(has ceased  writing new business  but continues to fulfil existing contracts  of insurance) to 
settle a claim under  their home insurance  policy for fire damage.
background
Mr and Mrs As home was badly damaged by a fire. Elite accepted the claim. Mr and Mrs A 
appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim on their behalf.  They  said they wanted  a cash 
settlement.
Mr and Mrs A agreed to accept Elites  offers of cash settlements for both buildings  and 
contents. But now they arent  satisfied with the amount of the buildings settlement. In 
particular they say it doesnt  cover  the cost of their surveyor. They  think  Elite should  pay a 
further £7,140 in respect of his fees.
Elite said it had had lengthy discussions with Mr and Mrs As loss adjuster about the 
settlement leading up to its offer. It said its final, increased settlement offer contained 
significant contingency sums to cover a range of matters which  had been under discussion  
during the claim  but remained in dispute. But it was always  intended  that the amount of its 
offer would be in full and final settlement meaning  that Mr and Mrs A wouldnt  be able to ask 
for any more money later.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Elite had acted reasonably  and she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. As Mr and Mrs A didnt agree, the matter  has been passed  to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont usually interfere  when a claim settlement has been agreed between the parties. In 
general, I think its unfair if a policyholder accepts an offer in settlement of a claim  and then 
later down the line decides to complain about the settlement. There are times where I do 
intervene, but thats usually where  I think the policyholder  only agreed to the settlement 
because they felt pressured to do so or were misled, or if I think the insurer  significantly 
underpaid a claim.
In this case, Im not persuaded that any of those reasons apply.  I accept that in January 
2017 Elite agreed  in correspondence with the loss adjuster that it was happy to pay for 
surveyors costs at 5% of the total cost of the works. But I think that was overtaken by the 
lengthy negotiations about  various  different aspects of the settlement  leading  up to October  
2017 when Mr and Mrs A accepted Elites offer of £119,218.06 excluding  VAT to settle  their 
buildings  claim.  
The loss adjuster says he understood the offer was only in respect of the reinstatement of 
the building  and didnt include any items agreed separately.  He also says the offer didnt 
include a breakdown of what was included  and what wasnt  so it wasnt clear  that the 
surveyors fees were supposed  to come out of this settlement. 
Ref: DRN23963502But the settlement  form made it clear that this payment was in full and final settlement of all 
remaining aspects of the claim arising  from the above loss. Also by signing the form Mr and 
Mrs A agreed that these  sums were  the final amounts  due to be paid by their insurer and 
that that these  payments would extinguish  all claims and liabilities  under  all sections of their 
household policy.
Although the settlement form didnt include a breakdown showing how the total had been  
reached, I think it was reasonable  for Elite to expect that the loss adjuster would satisfy 
himself that it was a fair and reasonable settlement before recommending it to Mr and Mrs A 
and that the terms  of the settlement would be clearly understood.  
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs A now find themselves out of pocket. But Im not persuaded that 
Elites settlement offer was unfair. This seems to me a case  where Mr and Mrs As loss 
adjuster agreed  a settlement  on their behalf that turned out not to cover  all their costs.  That,  
in my view, is an issue  between Mr and Mrs A and their loss adjuster rather than an issue  
between Mr and Mrs A and Elite.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2396350