K820x#14Complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz), as the insurer, should 
accept responsibility  for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to Allianz  as the seller  
in my decision.
Ms P says Allianz mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Ms P took out with a charge card in 1992. It was added 
to her account when  she applied for the card through  the post.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz had to make it clear to Ms P that the policy  was optional  and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the account.  Allianz  has said the optional  nature of the policy was 
made clear. Ive been given a copy of the application  form completed at the time of the sale 
and I can see that there is a section for the PPI. The box has been ticked to confirm the cover 
is required and Ms Ps name and date of birth have been entered in the box to confirm  she is 
to be the insured person. If Ms P didnt want to take out the PPI, she could have left the box 
blank when completing her application.
Ms P has said there is a cross  next to the box indicating this is where she should sign. But 
when looking at the form there doesnt appear to be a cross  in this area. I can see what  
appears to be a Y which has been placed at the bottom of this section, however, I think 
this mark was made when  the form was received back from Ms P and the application  was 
being processed, rather than already on the form when Ms P completed  it. 
So, on balance,  I think Allianz made it clear the policy was optional and Ms P chose to take 
it, knowing she could refuse it if she wanted  to.
Allianz has said it didnt  recommend  the policy to Ms P but she thinks  it did and has referred 
to the wording on the application form where  it states We strongly recommend you take this 
cover by ticking this box. From my review I havent  seen anything  to suggest Allianz took 
steps to assess Ms Ps circumstances with the intention of recommending the policy  to her. 
From what  weve  been told, Ms P completed her application via post  meaning she didnt 
have any interaction  with Allianz  staff. So taking this into account,  I dont think Allianz 
provided advice  to Ms P about  the policy. This means it didnt have to check  if the policy was 
right for her. But it did have to give her clear enough  information  to enable her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy.
Ref: DRN28454302Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. But even  if Allianz had given her better  or clearer  information, I dont think  it 
would have made a difference.  I still think she would have taken  the policy.  I say this 
because Ms P was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected  by any of the main  
limitations to the cover,  such  as having  unusual  working arrangements or a medical  
condition of which  she was already aware.
Ms P has told us she was entitled to less than three  months sick pay from her employer if 
she was off sick so she had no need  for the cover.  But this policy could have paid 15% of the 
outstanding balance until she was able to return to work or until that balance was cleared  
whichever came first. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, her sick 
pay. The policy would  also have covered her for the same term if she was to lose her job. 
While Ms P has told us she had some savings,  by having this policy she could protect these 
funds or use them to pay for other  essential living expenses. So I still think this policy  could 
have provided  a useful benefit  to her.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Ms P has lost out as a result of 
anything that Allianz  may have done wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2845430