K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that an agent acting  on behalf  of London General Insurance  Company 
Limited (LGIC) mis-sold  him a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 23 May 2019,  a copy extract  of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
LGIC have confirmed  it has nothing further to add. Mr M has responded and I have 
considered his further comments but overall  it doesnt change the outcome of his complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence  or arguments have been provided, I see no reason  to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do not uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against  London  General Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
During a meeting in 2003 Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement  to buy a car. At the same time 
he took out a single premium PPI policy  to protect his loan repayments. The policy wouldve  covered 
his loan repayments if he was unable to work  because of accident or sickness or if he lost his job. 
Ref: DRN22291542Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because she didnt think LGIC had made  the 
costs of the PPI clear  enough in that it wasnt clear from the credit agreement  what the total amount of 
the policy  cost. 
LGIC disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Im currently  thinking of not upholding  Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M applied  for a loan during a meeting at a car sales  room. LGIC had to make it clear to Mr M he 
had a choice in taking  the PPI. Mr M said this wasnt done but he hasnt given much detail about  why 
he thinks this which is understandable considering the time that has passed since he took the loan 
out. So Ive relied more  on what  the documents from the time show. 
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement  Mr M signed. In the financial details section the cost of the 
loan is set out with and without PPI included. Further  down the agreement there is a separate section 
which deals with PPI. Within  the section it says:
If you want to buy the optional life, accident, sickness, redundancyInsurance, please  tick box.
I can see next to these words there is a box that has been ticked and Mr M has filled in his details  as 
the person to be insured.  The section  also again  gives the monthly  cost of the PPI premium. 
So I think it wouldve been clear to Mr M at the time he took out the loan that the PPI was separate  
from the loan and optional,  because as well as setting out the cost of the loan with and without PPI, 
he was given  the choice  to take PPI by ticking  a box. And I think Mr M ticked  to take PPI because  he 
wanted the cover. 
Its not clear whether Mr M was advised to take the policy, so to be fair to Mr M I am going  to treat the 
sale as if it was advised   this puts Mr M in the best position. What this means  is that LGIC not only 
had to provide  information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mr M could make 
an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that 
the policy  was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
I dont know if LGIC  did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr M for the following  reasons:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught by any of the 
main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made it difficult  to 
make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Mr M says he was entitled to some sick pay but had no other means  of 
making his loan repayments if he couldnt  work.  A successful  claim on the policy wouldve 
paid out on top of his sick pay and for potentially  longer if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost his job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided a suitable benefit to Mr M in his circumstances.  
There was nothing to suggest that the PPI wasnt  affordable to him at the time and although 
the credit agreement didnt show the total cost of the policy over 48 months, it was made clear  
what the monthly premium was with and without PPI. So I think Mr M wouldve  been able to 
easily work this out.
Ref: DRN22291543And if Mr M no longer  wanted the policy  he could  cancel it and receive  a pro-rata  refund of the 
policy cost  which  I can see he received when  he paid off the loan early. 
I also need  to consider whether LGIC gave Mr M information in a way which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that he could make  a proper  choice about whether or not he wanted to take the PPI 
out. I dont  know if LGIC did give all the information as it should  of. 
But for the same reasons that the PPI was suitable and based  on what  Mr M has told us about  his 
circumstances at the time, I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI if hed been given all the proper 
information.
This means  I currently dont  think LGIC has to pay back the cost of PPI to Mr M.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint against London General Insurance  
Company Limited.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2229154