K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs estate complains  about the arrangements made by Lorica Advisory Services Limited
(Lorica) to set up a trust in 2009.
background
As both parties are aware I issued  a provisional  decision on this matter  as follows   
As both parties  are aware one of my colleagues  considered this matter in June 2020  and
issued a provisional decision then. That ombudsman has now retired from our service,  so
the case has been passed  to me.
I have considered the case  again from the start,  but am presently minded to agree with the
compensation course suggested by my colleague.  But, as the matter wasnt agreed it is only
fair that each side gets to make final comments to me, as opposed  to my colleague,  before  I
issue my concluding  findings.
I wont rehearse here all the surrounding information  my colleague set out in his very
extensive provisional decision. Suffice  to say it appears the bond was set up incorrectly  and
compensation is due, the outstanding  issue  concerns  that compensation only.
The current  compensation suggested is the tax paid by the estate minus what  the tax would
have been had the beneficiaries surrendered the bond and realised the same  gain under
their tax regimes. In addition Lorca should pay £4.600 re a lost personal allowance,  and add
interest from the date any tax was paid up to the date compensation is issued.
Lorica agreed with the compensation. The estates representative did not, and has
suggested that Lorica only agreed so as to pay out less than an earlier suggestion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After having considered matters again, the estates representative has not persuaded  me
that the compensation suggested is so incorrect that it cannot be fair.
There are a number of issues in this case that cannot be solved. If Mr G had been advised
differently he could perhaps  have chosen to create  multiple lives assured, I dont know and
there is no way to be certain of what he would have done, or for whose benefit. I am
prepared to assume he would have taken  some version of that forward,  but making what in
effect would  be guesses beyond that is a step too far.
The representative has presented a case for other lives assured gifting things to children  and
possibly grandchildren,  Im not prepared to speculate  on that. I could equally say that some
of the people concerned seem to be in a financial situation where they might encash any
investment as soon  as they could. And some appear  to be in a situation where they would
be taxed entirely at a higher rate.
All the above  is speculation, and whilst some element  of that cannot be avoided  I am not
prepared to take ever point in favour  of the estate as proven, nor every point in favour of
Lorica as proven, neither  course would be fair. I would say that if the estate wishes to argue
to a greater degree  they should really  consider  taking this matter to court, our service is not
Ref: DRN26631412equipped to make some  of the assumptions  they ask, and they would be better  arguing
those in court where evidence can be taken under oath, and detailed financial records
presented. I am only required  to make what I feel is a fair decision based on what  facts I
have and as few assumptions  as possible.
From the calculation given in the previous provisional decision my current  calculation is that
£84,874.30 tax was paid on the £198,986. The assumed tax via the beneficiaries  would be
£59,689.80. That gives an initial compensation figure of £25,184.50.  To this would be added
the £4,600 plus interest  at 8% per annum simple from the dates tax was paid, and the
allowance not allowed. The representative  should be able to give these dates.
I appreciate both sides will think the compensation is imprecise, but that is the nature of
making judgements  on matters where I cannot be sure what Mr G would have done, and
even more so where  I cannot be sure what potential beneficiaries would do in the future and
their future tax and financial  position.
Each side should come back  to me with final comments, including  any comments on the
figures above if they feel that necessary. But if they wish to make arguments about  my
deciding what might happen in the future  re tax and the people involved I would remind them
of the court  option.
Both sides have now responded. Lorica  has accepted  the provisional decision.  The estates 
representatives have  not. They have raised  issues over fees Lorica earned for the advice, 
and mentioned Lorica having a weak compliance  structure. They have restated the tax 
charge Mr G incurred at the outset. And declared  that not accepting the issues re charges 
and earlier  tax is unfair and not in keeping with the views I have taken on the beneficiaries 
tax issues. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be changing the outcome suggested  in my provisional decision. I know  this will be a 
disappointment to the estates representatives, but I will try and explain why. 
On the issue of charges I have gone back to the start of the complaint, and it hasnt really 
been argued that Mr G didnt want any advice and would have wanted  his investments back 
at the start to remain  in place. Thats what I would need to see to say no fees should  be 
paid. When advice is needed, but turns out to be wrong, it is that wrong I need to 
compensate for, not delete any fees incurred. 
Im sure the representatives will also understand that I cannot comment  on Loricas overall  
compliance structure. Such overarching matters are for the regulator not the ombudsman,  
and this service wont have seen enough  cases to make an overall judgement on Loricas 
compliance capability. By our nature we only see complaints, and by that judge everyone 
business we deal with could be said to be failing in its compliance, that plainly cannot be 
true. 
Turning to the tax implications at the start, like the fees this would really  only be an area of 
compensation if I were  convinced Mr G wanted  no advice and would have left his 
Ref: DRN26631413investments back then as was. This hasnt been  proved to my satisfaction and it seems to 
me that Mr G did want to make  some changes. 
On the final issue  of fairness as I said in my provisional decision this service is not suited to 
making the assumptions the estate want us to concerning the future actions  of people, some  
of who arent  directly associated with this case, in effect the beneficiaries  of the 
beneficiaries. I have no doubt  a convincing case could be put forward for at least some  of 
those possibilities, but the ombudsman service  isnt the right place to test that. We are an 
informal alternative to the courts and dont  usually take mass statements as to the future,  nor 
do we take evidence under oath. 
I am not inclined to make  any award based on such future assumptions. That isnt to say I 
dont believe  what the estate says, just that I cant prove it by evidence that I can collect to 
the level necessary  for me to make an award.  I appreciate legal action is never started  
lightly, but if the estate  wishes  to pursue  these  issues they may wish to consider the courts. I 
would highlight though that the courts are unlikely  to consider such  a case if the estate 
accepts my decision and takes  compensation via that. So they should consider carefully if 
they wish to take this award or take court action. 
my final decision
As detailed  above  my decision  is that Lorica Advisory Services  Limited did give incorrect  
advice to Mr G. With regard  to the potential losses  arising  from that Lorica should pay the 
estate £25,184.50, plus £4.600, plus interest on both at 8% per annum simple  from the dates 
both were paid as detailed above. If tax is deducted  from this interest  a certificate  of tax 
deduction should be provided to the estate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr G 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2663141