K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Vitality  Health Limited  changed the terms of its rewards scheme  
attached to his life insurance policy. 
Mr P will note that Ive made  my decision against  a business with a slightly  different name to 
the business referred to in our previous correspondence. Vitality  Health Limited is the correct 
business and my references to it include its agents. The change  of business hasnt affected  
the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr P has life insurance, insured by Vitality. The plan also offers  a range of discounts  and 
rewards with certain  partners to encourage customers to live healthier lives. Vitality  offered a 
discounted smartwatch as part of its reward scheme. Mr P and his wife had smartwatches 
under the scheme and Mr P wanted  to upgrade his smartwatch.
Mr P said:
initially each person insured under the policy was eligible for a smartwatch but Vitality  
amended the policy terms so that from 24 January  2019 only one smartwatch was 
offered on a policy and the discount  reduced  which meant he was £90 worse off
Vitality didnt give enough notice of the change to the policy terms as it gave him 
notice on 24 December 2018 about  a change brought into force on 24 January 2019
the details  on his member page hadnt  been  updated about  the smartwatch offer until 
January 2019.  He was entitled  to rely on the member page  information which was 
bespoke to his plan rather than have to look at the policy  terms and conditions
although he was eligible  to order a new smartwatch from November 2018 Vitality  
stopped him from ordering by deactivating the order button  on the website until the 
amended policy  terms came into force. He was then no longer eligible for an upgrade 
as his wife already  had a smartwatch
Vitality acted unfairly, misled him and induced him to continue  to pay monthly  policy 
premiums. 
Mr P wants  Vitality  to:
honour the original  policy terms before the January 2019  change or repay his and his 
wifes policy premiums for the time he says they were induced to pay the premiums
repay his wifes loan under  the rewards scheme for her smartwatch
pay him compensation
be fined.
Vitality said under the scheme terms and conditions its entitled to change  the terms of its 
rewards and it will give at least six weeks notice before the changes take effect unless its 
unable to do so due to factors outside  its control . It said it sent Mr P information  about the 
change in December  2018. The effect of the change  meant  Mr P or his wife could order  a 
new smartwatch shortly  after her current  benefit ended on 31 January  2020, subject to 
eligibility requirements at that time.
Our investigator explained why she thought Vitality had acted fairly and not misled Mr P.
Ref: DRN28387262Mr P said he didnt  doubt Vitality emailed  him about  the change  to its terms and conditions, 
but he didnt read such communications. He emphasised his point was the member page  of 
Vitalitys website said he could order a smartwatch when his plan expired in November 2018 
and he could rely on that information rather than be expected to look at Vitalitys emails, 
terms and conditions or main areas of its website.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Vitality sent emails to its rewards  scheme members in November and December 2018  to let 
consumers know the terms and conditions would change and updated  its website. So even if 
I did think the change  was within its control Vitality  gave at least six weeks  notice of the 
change. Even if Vitality  hadnt given six weeks notice it didnt disadvantage Mr P as Vitality 
hadnt accepted new orders for smartwatches since September 2018, as Ive detailed below. 
I note Mr P doesnt dispute Vitality sent him emails about the change.  
Mr Ps point  is that he was entitled  to rely on information on his member page irrespective of 
any other communication by Vitality. 
Vitality told us it cant send us the exact  member page Mr P would have seen at the relevant 
time as the page has now been superseded. Its sent a copy  of Mr Ps current  member page  
which shows that once  Mr P clicks on the page that relates to the smartwatch the current  
important notices are clear. That suggests the information would have been clear  at the 
relevant time once  Mr P had clicked on to the smartwatch page.  
Even if the change information wasnt clear on the member  page at the relevant time I dont 
think Mr P can reasonably say hes entitled  to not take into account any other  information  
Vitality provided about the reward scheme. Vitality  could fairly and reasonably expect Mr P to 
read emails and information it sent to update him about changes.  
In September  2018 Vitality stopped all smartwatch orders until further  notice due to the 
manufacturers upgrade  launch. That information was on Vitalitys website. Reward scheme  
members werent able to order until January 2019.  Our investigator checked Vitalitys  
website and its smartwatch  orders have  been on hold since  September  2019  for the next 
launch. It appears that Vitality is required to put orders on hold during a new version  launch.  
If Vitality  isnt required to do so then it made the business decision to do so, which  is for it to 
decide and not a matter  I can look into. 
Ive seen no evidence  to support Mr Ps suggestion that Vitality unfairly prevented him from 
ordering an upgraded smartwatch just because it wanted to wait for the new scheme terms 
to take effect.  
I don't think Vitality acted  unfairly, misled Mr P or induced him into paying policy premiums. 
On the evidence Vitality  hasnt done anything wrong. Theres no basis for me to say it should 
honour the reward scheme terms before  the January 2019 change  for Mr P or repay his and 
his wifes policy premiums or repay  his wifes  loan under the rewards scheme for her 
Ref: DRN28387263smartwatch or pay him compensation. In any event the policy  premiums  are for the life 
insurance and Mr P has continued to benefit from that cover.  
Our investigator correctly  explained to Mr P that even if we did think a business had done  
something wrong its not our role to issue a fine to a business.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2838726