K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the length of time it took British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI) to 
attend an emergency at his home.
background
Mr C said that he had a problem with his boiler during a particularly cold snap in March  
2018.He said this left him with no hot water or heating. He contacted BGI, but it didnt send 
out an engineer  for seven days.  He said that his home was really cold, and he has two 
children at home so it was very stressful trying  to look after them. He had to boil water 
downstairs and fetch it up each day for washing. And he said that he spent about £12 in 
electricity just trying to keep his home  warm. 
Mr C said that hed complained to BGI, and it said that it would pay him £70 in 
compensation. He felt that was insulting, and that £250 would be more  appropriate. 
BGI said that it had been a week between Mr C contacting it to tell him about the boiler 
breakdown and it getting an engineer out to him. Hed booked the appointment on 2 March 
2018. The earliest it could get someone  to him then was 9 March 2018. It said that it had just 
experienced a very high number of emergency calls at the time, because  of the bad weather. 
It was sorry about that. It said that it would like to pay him £50 to make up for that, but it 
increased the offer to £70 because he had told it hed had to pay more for electricity  too. It 
sent him a cheque  for that amount. 
When BGI wrote to our service about  this complaint, it said that it thought that what  it had 
paid was reasonable. It said that it could appreciate the inconvenience caused to Mr C, but it 
had visited as soon  as it could, and it wasnt able to guarantee  response times. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that bearing in mind the impact on Mr C, 
and the stress caused to him by trying to care for his family without hot water  or heating for 
seven days, in such a cold spell, she didnt think that £70 was enough compensation. She 
said she thought  that BGI should increase this to £200. 
BGI said that the bad weather which affected Mr C took the country by surprise  and affected  
almost every  household.  It had experienced a large number  of customers contacting  it to 
arrange visits. It had prioritised its most vulnerable  customers. (BGI means  those for whom  a 
lack of heating  would  have a particularly  serious effect, and might even be life threatening.)  It 
didnt have any record that Mr Cs household  had any such  vulnerable members, so 
unfortunately hed had to wait for one of the remaining visits. BGI said that it could 
appreciate that Mr C would expect  a visit much sooner, but it didnt think it had mishandled  
matters. It thought that its payment of £70 was fair.
Our investigator didnt  change her mind. She said that she appreciated that BGIs resources 
were stretched during this time and that more vulnerable customers  took priority. But she 
didnt think that took away  from the distress and inconvenience that Mr C experienced at the 
time because of the delays. She said shed  explained why she thought that £200 was fair. 
BGI said that it would  like this case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. And it said that it 
doesnt promise to go out to customers within a specific timeframe,  especially during such 
extreme circumstances as there were in this case.  
Ref: DRN27050692Mr C wrote again to tell us about  the unpleasant circumstances he and his family were  in for 
that week. And he said that if BGI couldnt attend,  it shouldve found someone close  to him 
who could. 
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
The time when  Mr Cs boiler broke down was a particularly cold snap, and I think its 
reasonable for BGI to say that its resources  would be stretched during this time. It states  that 
many third party firms  were experiencing much longer delays  in attending heating 
emergencies. But I think its also fair to note that BGI is providing  insurance for home 
emergencies. The boiler breakdown cover  that it provides  will always be subject to far more 
demand during  especially cold weather. And its customers expect that they will be able to 
receive a much quicker service than if they were simply  to ring a local engineer. It seems to 
me that BGIs customers pay their premiums, at least partly,  so that they have this peace  of 
mind. 
In this case, BGI wasnt  able to provide an engineer to attend Mr Cs home for a week. That 
is a long time to take to respond to an emergency  callout, even without any especially  
vulnerable persons in the property. There are four people  in Mr Cs household, including  two 
children, and Mr C has described  the stress  he faced trying to keep the house warm, and 
enable the family to wash and stay clean, whilst at the same time worrying about additional 
energy costs. I would  tend to agree with him, and with our investigator,  that the £70 which  
BGI paid (of which I note that £20 was intended  to cover extra energy costs) isnt quite 
enough to make up for whats  gone wrong  here.  
I think that the payment of £200  in total which our investigator suggested provides a 
reasonable resolution to this complaint. Thats in line with what  I wouldve awarded  in this 
case, if this suggestion had not already been made. Ill provide in my decision that BGI can 
include in that amount  any compensation it has already paid to Mr C for this complaint, 
including money  it has paid him to cover larger than anticipated energy bills.
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr C a total of £200 in 
compensation. British  Gas Insurance Limited can include in that amount any money it has 
already paid Mr C for this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2705069