K822xcomplaint 
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs W took out, will continue to cover  
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr and Mrs W. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr and Mrs W about the policy wasnt as clear as it should  
have been. And RSA has offered to pay them £500  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
theyve been caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Mr and Mrs W have  told us theyre not happy with the offer RSA has made  because  no other 
insurer will cover their pets pre-existing conditions now,  so they have  no choice but to keep 
paying the increasing premiums if they want their pet to be covered. They  would like RSA to 
give a more detailed  explanation of what caused the increases to their premium  and charge 
them a lower premium for their policy.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Ws policy is too high, they should have been charged  less 
for the policy or that they should  be charged less in the future.
The way businesses calculate the premiums  they charge is commercially sensitive 
information so I wouldnt  expect RSA to make  this available to Mr and Mrs W. But I have 
seen the calculations used by RSA,  and while Mr and Mrs Ws premium has seen significant 
increases, I can confirm RSA has treated them in the same way it would have treated any 
other policyholder in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge them a lower  premium 
going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr and Mrs W a significant  amount of distress  as, due 
to the medical  conditions  their pet now has, they cant find equivalent cover elsewhere.  And I 
recognise the likely continuing increases in the premium in future years may make the policy 
unaffordable.
Ref: DRN29682012But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr and Mrs W the information they needed to 
understand they could end up in the position  they now find themselves in. Where I find 
something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a 
consumer has lost out.
If Mr and Mrs W hadnt taken a lifetime policy, they wouldve either had no cover at all, and 
would have had to pay for all their pets treatment themselves, or a reduced level of cover, 
where they would  still have  found  themselves in a situation where  their pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr and Mrs W having the same level of cover for ongoing conditions at a fixed  or 
capped premium  this type of policy isnt generally  available. So it wouldnt be fair for me to 
put them in this position. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr and Mrs W have 
experienced. It is a significant award  and I think it fairly compensates  Mr and Mrs W for the 
trouble and upset  theyve  been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs W £500 compensation 
is fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968201