K820x#14complaint
N complains it was mis-sold an interest  rate cap by National Westminster Bank Plc
(NatWest).
background
N is a property development company.  In July 2009  it borrowed £3M from NatWest, 
repayable over a three-year term. At the same  time it took out a five-year interest rate cap 
with NatWest. The cap carried  a premium which was paid monthly. This capped the interest 
rate payable on borrowing up to £5.1M at 4%.
N repaid the loan in 2010 but was still liable to pay for the cap.
The sale of the cap was subsequently considered  as part of a review  agreed with the 
industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), into the way interest rate hedging 
products were sold. Under  this review, NatWest  concluded the sale may not have fully 
complied with the standards agreed  with the FCA. In particular, the potential early exit costs 
associated with the product werent  explained to the standards  agreed with the FCA. 
NatWest concluded,  however,  that N wouldve taken out the cap anyway, and therefore this 
hadnt made a difference. N was unhappy and brought  its complaint here.
Our adjudicator concluded the cap was mis-sold  and NatWest  should put N in the position it 
wouldve been in if it hadnt taken out the cap NatWest sold it, but instead  a cap with a term 
of three  years  which covered the amount  N actually  borrowed  (and not more). NatWest  
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I sent N and NatWest my first provisional decision on 15 November 2017, in which I 
explained why I wasnt intending to uphold Ns complaint.  
NatWest replied to my provisional  decision on 17 November  2017 and said it had nothing  
further to say.
N replied to my provisional  decision asking  for more time to fully respond.  An extension was 
granted. N later wrote to us in February 2018 explaining it was still unable  to fully respond,  
but it raised a number  of points in the meantime about why it remained unhappy.  We 
contacted NatWest for its comments  on the points N raised, and we also provided  N with 
evidence I relied  on in reaching my first provisional decision. N then made a subject access 
request to the bank and said the banks response  would inform  its full response.  The matter 
became protracted.  But ultimately N later provided its final comments for me to consider on
14 December 2018.
I subsequently sent N and NatWest  my second provisional decision  on 8 May 2019 
explaining why I still wasnt  intending  to uphold Ns complaint.  I said that before I made  my 
final decision  Id consider anything else the parties  wanted to give me, so long as I got it 
before 8 June  2019.
N then made  a subject  access  request to us, and also explained  it was engaged with the 
Information Commissioners Office  regarding access to NatWests  records. I then agreed to 
further extensions  to give N more time to provide us with its final comments in response to 
my second  provisional.
Ref: DRN29694012Our service responded to Ns subject access  request  on 2 August 2019,  and the final 
deadline for receipt of Ns final comments was set at 12 September 2019. This date has now 
passed and so its for me to determine  this complaint based on the information  presented.
N, in response to my second provisional  decision,  has essentially repeated some of its 
previous points about the evidence that NatWest has made available. Its also said,  in 
summary, that: an independent expert  has informally determined that the cap should  have  
cost around two thirds of the price  NatWest actually charged in July 2009; how can NatWest  
justify this; this is a 50% mark-up, equating  to almost £100,000 overall, which  doesnt  strike it 
as fair; NatWest wasnt transparent about  this or the changing  interest rate market 
conditions; had NatWest  been honest about  this, it almost certainly would have done 
something different;  a formal revaluation of the cap pricing would cost it several thousand 
pounds and it suggests a better approach would be for NatWest to recalculate honestly and 
fairly to establish what the correct cost should have been; if it was overcharged  for the cap 
and not told about this, it wasnt  in a position  to make a fair judgment.  
NatWest has not made any new points  in response to my second provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ns complaint, for materially the same reasons as I explained  in 
my second  provisional  decision  dated  8 May 2019.  Ive explained my reasons again  below, 
with further comment  where  appropriate to address Ns recent  comments.  
N says that as the FCA review found the cap was mis-sold, the burden  of proof on NatWest 
to show it wouldve nonetheless taken out the cap should be enormous. I understand why it 
says this. The FCA review had its own details and methodology though.  Im required to 
determine what in my view is fair and reasonable in this complaint, following the 
consideration set out in our rules   as set out in the FCA Handbook Dispute Resolutions 
Rules (DISP). Im not required to follow the same assessment guidelines as the FCA review. 
And Ive explained  below why, irrespective of the outcome of the FCA review,  Im not 
satisfied it would be fair and reasonable to uphold Ns complaint.
N has made some points about  the disclosure of evidence. It says NatWest  has decided  
what evidence to present  and what  evidence  not to present;  that NatWest has refused to 
explain why it wont provide answers  to particular questions; and it says that in the interests  
of natural justice I shouldnt, therefore,  consider the evidence NatWest has put forward. Its 
also asked to see a full copy of any attendance note or internal file note arising from the 
8 October 2008 meeting, and all other meetings and phone  calls regarding the sale. It also 
says that it has been provided with some of the meeting notes and transcripts,  but not all of 
them in complete form.
Its right for N to be able to comment on the evidence Ive relied on in reaching my decision. 
Thats why, in 2018, we sent N a copy of the 10 June 2009 presentation document,  extracts  
from the telephone call report 8 October  2008, the meeting report  10 June 2009, and a 
transcript of the part of the telephone call on 29 July 2009 that I referenced in my provisional 
decisions. DISP  3.5.9(2) allows for evidence to be provided in an edited, summary or 
description format where I consider it appropriate. Here I have to balance the interests of 
both parties, where  NatWest is concerned  about  the sharing of potentially commercially 
Ref: DRN29694013sensitive information.  And overall  Im satisfied N has had sight of, and the chance to 
comment on, the evidence that Ive relied on in reaching my decision.
N also has a number  of questions it says should  be asked of the bank. It is for the 
ombudsman, ultimately,  to decide the investigation.  And Im satisfied that I can reach a fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the available information.
Let me first re-address  the issues surrounding the break costs  of the cap, before  I address 
Ns further points  about the presentation of the interest rate environment and other matters.
I dont think NatWest advised N to specifically take out the cap. I think  instead it provided N 
with information  to make up its own mind.  So NatWest  needed  to give N clear,  fair and not 
misleading information so N could make  a decision about whether to take out the cap. I think  
NatWest did do this.
NatWest has sent us a copy of the Interest  rate risk management papers dated 10 June 
2009. These have  Ns details  on them, which I understand were  prepared for Ns attention. 
On page three, these  state: Important  : Should the additional £2.1mio loan not be drawn,  
and so the £3mio loan remains payable over 3 years, there  may be a breakage  cost for the 
cap after 3 years if indeed  it is broken. Underneath this in bold type is stated, This would 
not exceed the sum of the unpaid premiums.
Ive also heard a recording  of a telephone  conversation between NatWest  and N on 
29 July 2009 (the day before the cap commenced) in which NatWest explained there  may be 
a breakage cost if the loan was broken before maturity, and that this would be the sum of the 
remaining premium less the monthly value of the cap. N said during  the call that it was 
happy and comfortable with this.
The value of the cap could only be calculated on the particular day the value was wanted for. 
So to determine the exact breakage  cost a calculation was needed. N has referred to an 
email NatWest sent N about  this which said, Hope that hasnt  fried your noodle  too much! . 
And I understand that calculating the present value of the cap was not so straightforward. 
But I think its clear nonetheless that N understood  that if it cancelled its borrowing before the 
end of the cap, the maximum cap breakage cost would be the unpaid premiums  for the cap. 
So I think N understood the potential  magnitude  of the amount potentially payable  in this 
respect. I think  NatWest did therefore  provide enough clear  information about this, for N to 
decide whether  it was prepared to take the risk these break  costs  would be payable  in return  
for capping  the interest rate repayable on its borrowing at 4% for five years.
Ive also carefully thought  about the amount  of borrowing and the term the cap was taken out 
to cover,  and whether NatWest  gave N enough information to properly  decide  this. As 
already stated, N borrowed £3M from NatWest,  repayable over three  years. But it took the 
cap out for five years  and to cover  borrowing  up to £5.1M.
Its clear from the available information that N took out the cap to cover £5.1M because on 
top of the £3M it borrowed from NatWest over three years, it was looking  to top this up with a 
further £2.1M repayable over five years.  But this top up appears  to have been dependent  on 
a lease being agreed.
In this particular  case it looks  to me like NatWest  explained  the risks of doing  this to N, and 
that N still wanted to take the cap out on this basis.
Ref: DRN29694014Theres a meeting report dated  10 June 2009  that NatWest has sent us. This sets out that 
NatWest explained  to N that it didnt need  to set up the cap this way  it could instead have 
increased the cap to cover additional borrowing in the future as the need arose. The notes 
record that N said this was starting to over-complicate things and it wanted to hedge  the 
interest rate all in one go.
This meeting note goes on to state  that NatWest  explained  it could  only hedge all the £5.1M 
from the outset if N was happy it would be knowingly, potentially significantly, over-hedging 
itself, and potentially  paying for a cap on debt it did not have. It also states that, [N] said that 
he understands they could be spending  c£100k  more than would otherwise be needed, but 
the cap can always hedge other  debt in the LLPs name or indeed another  company. And 
the Interest  rate risk management papers dated 10 June 2009  (Ive already referred to), set 
out that Ns preference was to take the cap over five years  for the full £5.1M and that [N] 
understands that in doing so it runs the risk of over-hedging itself since, if the additional loan 
is not taken, it will have  c£5.1mio hedged over 5 years (albeit on a reducing basis), but only 
one loan for £3mio (reducing) repayable over 3 years.
So I think N did understand what it was doing  here.  And that it decided to take out the cap to 
cover £5.1M over 5 years knowing the risks this entailed.
N also says that at no time did NatWest discuss a range of cap strike  rates  and related 
premium costs  which it says may, had it done  so, led it to consider an alternative product. 
It says, specifically, that the RM at the time is quoted  as requiring a cap at 4.5%, yet no 
alternative pricing appears to have been  provided; and that the interest rate salesman 
dismissed that need by saying he suggested a 4% cap rate in the paper so that there is 
headroom since should consider premium  as debt cost. N says this statement doesnt make 
sense, and its asked  what the word  headroom  refers to here. But again,  Im not persuaded 
that this shows NatWest mis-sold the cap. 
N has previously argued  for an independent source  to verify the market rates used by the 
bank to set the pricing for the cap, and its recently  commented that an expert consultant has 
now informally determined that the cap should  have cost around two thirds of the price 
NatWest actually charged in July 2009.  N says it would have done something else if 
NatWest had disclosed this. And its said unless NatWest provides independently verifiable 
calculations to show how it arrived at the price of the cap  and that it used the correct 
market rate and credit  margin  in pricing the cap  the cap should be torn up and all monies  
repaid. However,  I dont  agree that NatWest should be required to provide its cap pricing  
calculations here.  NatWest was entitled to determine the terms of its offering, including the 
price. This was a matter for NatWests  own commercial discretion. There was no obligation  
on NatWest to say how it arrived at the cap pricing, or for it to disclose its profit  from the 
transaction. Instead, as Ive said, it was entitled  to determine the price of the cap it was 
prepared to offer N. And it was then up to N to decide whether it wanted to proceed  on that 
basis. Im satisfied from what  Ive seen that NatWest disclosed the cost of the cap. And Im 
satisfied the cap is something N considered carefully before it decided to proceed.  So Im not 
persuaded this makes  a difference here. 
N also says NatWest misled it about the future  direction  of interest  rates, and that but for this 
it wouldve  chosen a different course.  Ive thought about this carefully, including  all the points 
N has made about the 9 June presentation document, and what  it says the banks real view 
of the future direction of interest rates was at the time.
Ref: DRN29694015N has sent us a copy of the graph I understand it is referring to, which  is on RBS paper, 
which shows a projection of various  interest  rates rising more  quickly than what actually 
happened. Its stated under the graph  that, Past performance is not a reliable indicator of 
future results. N argues  for an independent  source to both verify,  or otherwise, the veracity 
of this graph. I understand N says that the banks own treasury department  was declaring a 
low and stable interest rate environment for the foreseeable  future and that its referred  to 
comment in the RBS Annual Report for 2008.
To give some context, the Bank  of Englands  base  rate stood at 4.5% in October 2008 but 
fell to 0.50%  in March 2009. Clearly  rates fell sharply. But the fact that we all now know  that 
base rates have  been for a considerable period at (UK) record lows does not mean,  of 
course, that this was predicted or expected at the time.  NatWests  presentation likely 
influenced Ns decision-making, but Im satisfied that N wouldve understood there  were  no 
guarantees as to what would happen to interest rates in the future   Im not persuaded 
NatWest misled N about this. And given the history of (UK) interest rates,  some  customers in 
2009 may well have felt increases in rates were  a very real risk. This wasnt an 
unreasonable or incorrect position at the time.
N also questions whether an interest rate hedging  product was really a legitimate condition 
of the lending, if, it says,  the true interest rate position had been presented;  and what  the 
pricing wouldve  been in that situation.  But again, Im not persuaded NatWest didnt give N 
clear, fair and not misleading information  so N could make a decision about whether to take 
out the cap. And Im not persuaded it would have  done anything  differently.
So, whilst Ive listened to everything N has said, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
NatWest mis-sold N the cap. From what Ive seen, I think NatWest was only prepared  to lend 
the money to N if it hedged the interest rate. And I think N decided to take the cap out 
knowing it was potentially  over-hedged, depending how things worked  out, and what  the 
maximum cap break costs would be, and knowing that the future  direction of interest  rates 
could not be guaranteed.
I appreciate NatWest found the sale of the cap may not have fully complied with the 
standards agreed with the FCA  and in particular, that the potential early  exit costs 
associated with the product werent  explained to the standards  agreed with the FCA. But in 
this particular case, Im not persuaded this is enough for me to uphold  the complaint, 
because I think from the available information  that N did understand the potential  magnitude  
of the amount payable if it broke  the loan before the cap matured, and it decided to proceed 
on this basis nonetheless.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2969401