K821x#15complaint
Miss H is unhappy Harwood Claims Management Limited (HCM) has charged her a fee for a 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) policy claim after she said shed cancelled her 
agreement.
background
In July 2018 Miss H agreed for HCM to check whether she had any PPI policies. She signed 
a Letter  of Authority (LoA)  with it in September 2018. And in October 2018 she signed a 
Letter of Engagement  (LoE). Both of which gave  HCM authority to represent  Miss H with 
submitting her mis-sold PPI claim(s). 
In December 2018, on the success of her claim HCM asked Miss H to pay its fee. 
Miss H said she didnt  feel the fee being asked for by HCM should  be paid; as she said shed 
cancelled the agreement on a couple  of occasions,  15 July 2018  and 01 October 2018, 
before her claim was successful. So she said HCM wasnt  authorised  to act as her 
representative. 
Miss H also said her claim had only been successful  because of the work shed done  with 
her lender.  And that HCM  hadnt, despite her request, provided its information in the right 
format to help her understand what she was signing or agreeing  to.
HCM said it hadnt received the letters she said she sent in July 2018 and October 2018 
wanting to cancel her agreement. HCM said the letter dated 01 October 2018 would have 
been before  Miss H had agreed  for HCM to act as her representative.  
Miss H referred her complaint to the Legal  Ombudsman for investigation. This complaint was 
transferred to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  service) as 
part of the change in the regulation of claims management companies.
Our investigator said HCM was authorised to act as Miss Hs representative  and the claim 
had been successful. So HCM could charge its fee. But asked HCM  to pay £100  for the 
trouble and upset  caused to Miss H by not providing  its correspondence in her requested  
format.
Miss H didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The agreement Miss H signed, with HCM  in September 2018 was on a No win No fee 
basis. This means HCM charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the 
amount of work  they actually  did. So, any work done  on any unsuccessful  claims would be 
done for free. Where  a claim  was successful, HCM s fee may be more  or less than the value 
of the work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement. 
HCM also set out its fee as being 20% plus VAT and gave some monetary examples to 
show what Miss H would receive dependant on the amount of the compensation paid.
Ref: DRN25518952Miss H said shed cancelled her agreement before her claim was successful, saying shed 
sent letters in July 2018 and October 2018. HCM has said it didnt receive either  letter. 
Ive looked at the evidence Miss H has sent to us. I cant  find any evidence  of a cancellation  
letter having  been sent dated 15 July 2018. But Miss H has sent a copy  of a letter she said 
she sent dated 15 August 2018  in which  she says she no longer required HCMs service. 
She goes  on to ask HCM  to confirm the cancellation either by telephone or in writing. And 
asked for any written response to be drafted on yellow paper and in a bigger font size as she 
was dyslexic.
I cant see that Miss H received any such confirmation. And in September  2018,  I can see 
that she signed a Letter  of Authority (LoA), which authorised  HCM to act as her 
representative. So, Im satisfied that if Miss H had cancelled her agreement   she had 
changed her mind as she had agreed  for HCM to represent her with her PPI claims.
Miss H said she sent another letter dated 1 October 2018, the basis of which  was again that 
she no longer wanted  HCM  to work  for her. And that she needed written  communication  in a 
certain format. Miss H hasnt  provided any evidence to show HCM had telephoned or written 
to her to confirm it had received her letter  cancelling  her agreement. And she has no record  
of the letter  having been posted. 
I cant say whether the letter  was sent or not. But on 13 October 2018, Miss H signed a LoE 
which again gave  HCM authority to act on her behalf. So Im satisfied HCM  was authorised  
to act as Miss Hs representative.
In December 2018, HCM let Miss H know her PPI claim  had been successful. It told her the 
amount of her compensation  and the fee it would charge her for her successful claim. This 
fee was 20% plus VAT, as HCM  had outlined in its terms  and conditions.
Miss H sent an email to HCM refuting its fee as she said shed done the work with her PPI 
provider. But as HCM  was acting as her representative in her claim Miss H shouldnt have 
been contacted by any of her PPI providers  directly  where it is clear that a representative  
is acting, they should  have dealt  with the representative, in this case  HCM.
And when  contacted by her PPI provider,  Miss H had the choice to deal with them, or ask 
them to contact her representative, HCM.  She chose to deal with her PPI provider direct,  but 
HCM were  charging for its services. Miss Hs choice doesnt alter this fact, and so I dont 
agree that HCMs  fee should  be reduced  or waived as a result. 
HCM charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they 
actually undertook. And as her claim was now successful  Im satisfied it could charge its fee.
I know Miss H will be disappointed by my decision.  Miss H has said she would have had 
difficulty because of her dyslexia in understanding the forms she was signing. But I have 
seen correspondence  from Miss H responding to HCM which I think show she was aware  of 
the service she had agreed  with it.
But its clear from the emails Miss H sent to HCM,  after her claim was successful, that she 
wanted any written response  to be in a specific format. And that HCM didnt do this. 
So I agree with our investigator that HCM  can charge its fee, but for the trouble and upset 
caused to Miss H in not writing to her in her preferred  format,  HCM should pay her £100.
Ref: DRN25518953my final decision
So for the reasons outlined above I uphold this complaint and require Harwood Claims 
Management Limited to pay Miss H £100  for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2551895