K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that Cutpay merchant services Limited misrepresented the terms of a card 
terminal hire agreement.
background
Ms L is represented in this complaint.  Her representative says that she met with a sales  
agent from Cutpay.  He had transferred from the business with which  Ms L had existing 
agreements. She says he told her those agreements were  mis-sold and that Ms L could exit 
them without cost.  The representative also says she did not have an opportunity to review 
the new agreement  and that the term was for a length longer than discussed. Even if she 
could sign it to commit Ms L she says that the signature on it was not hers. The sales agent 
also did not help the business  achieve the necessary payment compliance standard.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Cutpay had not provided  any 
information to this service.  He said that Ms L should  be able to give one months  notice and 
exit the agreement without any termination payments or costs.  And she could already exit 
the related payment processing agreement by giving one months  notice. He had seen  
evidence of contact  between the representative  and the sales agent. This was consistent 
with her claim that shed  been told that Ms L would not have to pay to exit her existing 
agreements. He thought  that achieving compliance was fairly  the responsibility  of the 
business. So this was an example of poor service not misrepresentation.
Ms L agreed  with the resolution proposed.  Cutpay  did not respond  so the complaint is being 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont know why Cutpay  has not provided any information about this complaint. I consider it 
has had a reasonable opportunity to do so and to respond to the opinion  of the investigator 
especially if it disputed what he said
Ms L says she had only entered into the prior agreements in March 2017.  And the same 
sales agent  now working for Cutpay - had returned  the next month and told her 
representative that he could give her a better  deal.  Im finding it difficult to think it likely that 
she would  have wanted a further  hire agreement unless shed been given assurances  that 
she could exit the existing one without  cost to the business. And her understanding is 
supported by the subsequent exchange  of messages with that sales  agent. He continued to 
give assurances that he would resolve  this. I find that this is sufficient  for me to find that 
there was misrepresentation. 
I cant know exactly what was said about the term of the agreement. There  were  only two 
options on the agreement form possible for 36 and 48 months. Both of those seemed to be 
beyond the length that Ms L was wanting - as she says her future business plans were  
unclear. But as Ive already found  that incorrect statements were made to her representative 
and there  has been no challenge to her account  I accept as most likely this also was not 
made clear and she shouldnt be held to it.
Ref: DRN28948002I agree  with the investigator that achieving the necessary  payment compliance  standard  was 
fairly the responsibility  of Ms L.
I note that Ms L wrote to Cutpay on 18 April 2018 asking that the contract be cancelled.  She 
has proof of sending this and she did not receive  any response.  So I consider she has 
already given the notice the investigator  has set out and the hire agreement  should fairly be 
deemed to end one month from that date.  She will though still need to give one months 
notice to the payment processing  business.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require that the hire contract be deemed 
terminated from 18 May 2018 at no cost to Ms L and with no payments or charges due after 
that date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2894800