K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance to him 
alongside two credit cards. 
I can see that when  Mr A applied for his credit  cards, Lloyds was trading as TSB. To keep 
things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds for the rest of this decision.
background
Mr A applied for both cards at the same time and using the same application form.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed  with that view.  
He said that Lloyds suggested  he apply  for a credit card to reduce the amount of cash he 
used. He accepted Lloyds advice  and was not aware he had PPI. His financial situation at 
the time of the sale was very healthy.  
As Mr A didnt agree  with our adjudicator,  the matter has been passed to me to make  a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A, but I havent  upheld his complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Mr A told us that he bought PPI during a meeting with his bank. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest hes wrong in remembering the sale in that way.  I cant know what was said during 
that meeting.  So to help me decide whats likely  to have happened,  Ive looked at what  Mr A 
told us about it. And Ive also considered  a sample  credit card application form that Lloyds  
used to sell PPI at the time it was sold to Mr A. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr A would have known he had a choice about 
taking this PPI policy.  I can see from the sample  form that in order  for PPI to be added,  Mr A 
had to tick a box to select cover. As cover was added to the account, I think that box was 
probably ticked at the time.  
I know Mr A told us that he didnt know he had a PPI policy  at the time. Ive thought carefully  
about what Mr A has said on that point.  I dont doubt that hes told us what he honestly 
remembers about the sale. But Ive been given copies of some  of his credit  card statements. 
I can see that PPI payments are mentioned on those statements.  So if Mr A hadnt selected 
a policy, I think hed have  wanted to know what those payments were for. The evidence Ive 
seen doesnt suggest that Mr A did so. 
I appreciate he doesnt now remember, but I think Mr A probably  knew he had taken  this PPI 
policy out and he didnt have to buy it if he didnt  want it. 
Ref: DRN26129612Lloyds advised  Mr A to buy PPI. So it had to make sure the policy was suitable  for his needs. 
To help me decide whether the cover  was suitable,  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And Ive also thought about  what he told us about his circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if hed had to make  a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Mr As credit card 
balance would have  been repaid for up to 12 months for each claim. Mr A told us that he 
was self-employed  when  the policy was sold. It doesnt appear then that he would have had 
sick pay to rely on to make his repayments if he was out of work. He told us that he had 
savings which were  the equivalent  of less than three months  of his pay. It follows  then that I 
think the PPI would have lasted for longer than the means Mr A already had in place if he 
couldnt work. 
Mr A told us that he was in good health at the time when the PPI was sold to him. So I dont 
think hed have been affected by any of the exclusions about medical conditions. After  
considering the terms and conditions for this particular policy,  I dont  think  Mr As status as a 
self-employed person would have made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim 
than if he was an employee. I think the policy  probably  was suitable for Mr A. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr A enough  information about the cover so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good  fit for his needs.  That information had to be clear, fair and 
not misleading. It is possible that Lloyds didnt tell Mr A everything it should have done. But 
Ive set out how I think the PPI could have been  helpful if Mr A was out of work. So I dont 
think more or better information about  the cover would have put him off buying  it. 
With all of this in mind, I havent upheld  the complaint, so I dont need  to tell Lloyds to take 
any action to put things right. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612961