K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the advice he says he was given by an appointed representative (AR) 
of The On-Line Partnership Limited to switch  his personal pensions  to a SIPP and then 
invest in Green Oil Plantations Limited, The Resort Group  and Store First. He says he was 
given this advice  by Bragagnini  Associates Financial Solutions Limited (BAFSL).  He says 
this advice was unsuitable for him and he was not informed of the risks of these investments. 
He says the investments were Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS) which  
were unsuitable  for him as he was not a sophisticated, professional  or high net worth 
investor. He believes  the investments are now worthless.  
background
On-Line did not uphold  the complaint. It said that when Mr P approached  BAFSL  he had 
already been persuaded to switch his pension to invest  in UCIS by another party - 
Bragagnini Associates Mortgage Solutions  Limited (BAMSL). So although BAFSL proceeded 
on an advised basis and made a personal recommendation to him, the transaction should be 
viewed as execution  only and non-advised. It also said that even if BAFSL  had advised  Mr 
P not to proceed, he would have gone  ahead  anyway.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.  She 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. She believed that On-Line  had a duty to make a 
suitable recommendation to Mr P and that included the intended investments he was to 
make. That was even  if another party had given advice on the investments. She did not 
believe the investments  were suitable  for Mr P; they were  of a higher level of risk than was 
suitable for him and resulted in a lack of diversification. She did not believe this transaction 
could be termed execution only or non-advised. She recommended that a compensation 
calculation be performed.
On-Line did not agree  with the investigators assessment. It said Mr P was an accountant 
and it would expect  him to have a good  understanding of investing and the risks of doing so. 
He also had an existing  pension and received initial and ongoing advice. This would have 
equipped him with sufficient knowledge  of the risks of investing. 
It said that the risk profiling exercise  had assessed  Mr P as someone willing  to accept a high 
degree of risk and that his previous pension had been invested 80% in equities   which also 
presented a high degree of risk.
It said Mr P did not agree  to ongoing advice  and this supports its view that Mr P wanted to 
make his own investment  decisions  and didnt want any advice on the suitability of his 
investments. It also said that it didnt  think a fair comparison for redress  was a comparison 
with his previous  pension  as that was also high risk  and the investigator had said that Mr P 
didnt have the capacity to take a high degree of risk.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and so On-Line asked for the case  
to be referred to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27853652A fact find (a document to record Mr Ps financial circumstances) dated 3 February  2012  
was completed by BAFSL for Mr P. This recorded very little detail. It set out that Mr P was an 
accountant, but his income/expenditure was marked as not applicable.  It did record that he 
had an existing personal pension worth £78,000, £7,000 in a bank account  and £3,000 in an 
ISA. It was noted that, Full details not given  as (Mr P) did not think  it needed to be as only 
looking to do pension  transfer. 
A risk assessment was also undertaken. This asked various questions which sought to 
identify Mr Ps tolerance to taking  investment risk. In the main these answers suggested Mr 
P would take some  risk  one question asked how comfortable Mr P would be with taking 
financial risk  to which  he replied comfortable. Another asked, overall,  how would you 
place yourself on the following (risk) scale  to which Mr P answered,  a moderate risk taker. 
It should be noted that these answers  did not place him at the top of the risk scale.  
This resulted in an overall risk description of 8 on a scale of 1 to 10, described  as high 
risk. 
A financial planning recommendations report dated 3 February 2012 was completed for Mr 
P. This described Mr Ps priority as increasing his retirement income. It set out that his 
attitude to risk was high. This was described  as:
Your priority is likely to be making higher  returns on your investments but you are still 
probably concerned  about losing money  due to rises and falls. 
And
Your preferred investment portfolio is likely to contain mostly  higher risk investments  such  
as shares with a few lower risk investments such as bonds.
Under Recommendations  it was recorded:
You are looking to transfer your pension  .., to allow you to self invest as you have been 
looking into some  other  forms of investment which you cant do via your current  personal  
pension, you are dealing  with Bragagnini Mortgage Solutions for your other forms of 
investment and you are not requesting any advice or help from us. You fully understand that 
what you are looking  at is unregulated.
I have recommended that you transfer  these funds  to a self invested  pension as you wish to 
use this pension for self investment which you are doing and have not had any advice from 
me with regard to this matter and all proceeds are going into the cash fund to await 
instructions. The plan is to be written  to age 75, although benefits  at present can be taken at 
any time from age 55 to 75.
There then follows a recommendation  of a SIPP provider so that Mr P can switch his 
personal pension  and then invest.
I have also noted  a BAFSL file record that records that a personal recommendation had 
been made to Mr P. And an adviser fee agreement  on the SIPP application which  records 
BAFSL as the adviser and that the fee payment is in respect of, advice in relation to under 
noted SIPP. The SIPP application was sent by BAFSL to the SIPP  provider. 
the scope of the advice
Ref: DRN27853653On-Line has said that advice was not provided as to the investments, only the SIPP.  But its 
AR - BAFSL - did know the intention  was to invest into unregulated  investments as it is 
mentioned in its suitability report.  
On-Line had a duty under  the relevant rules, in particular  COBS 2 and COBS  9, set out 
previously by the FSA and now Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA),  to act in Mr Ps best 
interests, know its client and give suitable  advice. In my view it could not so without  taking 
account of the investments which the SIPP was put into place to facilitate. The only reason 
for the creation of the SIPP and the pension switch was to enable the investments to take 
place  the BAFSL adviser knew this and has made  statements  to that effect  in his report 
about the advice he gave.  
On-Line said it was Bragagnini Associates Mortgage Solutions Limited (BAMSL) that was 
giving investment advice but On-Line also had a duty to assess the overall suitability  of the 
SIPP and investments that it was put into place  to facilitate. 
Im also mindful that in January  2013,  the FSA issued an alert:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investment  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen advisers moving customers retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  illiquid unregulated 
investments (some which may be in Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer  will 
pass customer details to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated investment (e.g. 
an overseas property development).  When the customer expresses an interest  in the 
unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated  financial adviser to 
provide advice on a SIPP  capable of holding the unregulated  investment.  The financial 
adviser does not give advice  on the unregulated investment, and says it is only providing 
advice on a SIPP capable  of holding the unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated  
financial adviser also assists the customer to unlock  monies held in other investments so 
that the customer is able to invest  in the unregulated investment
 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer  out 
of a current pension  arrangement to release funds to invest in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas property investment must form 
part of the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into 
account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension product, including  
its underlying holdings, is more suitable  for the customer then the SIPP  is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment 
in unregulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated  elements  from the regulated 
elements.
 The FSA asks regulated firms,  in particular financial adviser  and SIPP Operators to report 
those FSA firms  that are carrying  on these  activities in breach of the FSA requirements
Ref: DRN27853654This alert didnt make any changes to the regulations,  it was not new regulation that had not 
applied previously. It simply re-stated the principles that already applied, and which were in 
place in 2012 when the advice was given.
My view is not dependent on comments  made  by the industry regulator as to the type of 
process On-Line  carried out to facilitate the investment. I take an independent view based on 
the circumstances of the complaint and take into account the rules, law and good  practice  in 
place at the time to arrive at decision that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But 
my view is consistent with general comments from the regulator about  this type of process  
that consideration should be given when advice  is given to transfer a SIPP,  to the suitability 
of the overall proposition  both SIPP and investment to be taken out. 
The regulators comments refer directly to the situation here  where advice is being given 
about a SIPP to invest in unregulated investments. It said that where an adviser 
recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will sell current investments  to fund such 
investments then the suitability of those investments must be taken  into account.  
I would reiterate that I do not agree  that simply because the regulators alerts were  given 
after On-Line gave its advice that they are irrelevant  all the alerts  did was highlight the 
existing obligations  (which applied at the time this advice was given) when giving advice 
such as this. It was not setting out new standards for businesses  to follow.
So my view is that On-Line did have  to take into account and advise on the specific  
suitability of the investment as well as the overall  arrangement of SIPP and investment.
suitability 
As discussed, On-Line could not give suitable advice on the combined SIPP and investment 
without taking into account the investment itself.  However I have not seen any evidence  that 
it did provide advice as to the investments.
As discussed, the On-Line fact find, which was used to obtain  background detail of Mr Ps 
circumstances, did not contain much  detail. It recorded he was employed but not his salary 
and there  is no detail about  outgoings. Savings were limited  to £7,000 in a bank  account  and 
£3,000 in an ISA. This would indicate a very limited  experience of investments and none in 
respect of the esoteric, high risk and unregulated type that were subsequently taken out 
through the SIPP. Mr P did hold the pension(s) that were transferred and it has said that the 
fund holdings were  high risk. However, the investment funds those pensions held were 
mainstream, retail regulated collective funds  themselves investing across a wide spread of 
shares and assets.  They  are of a very different nature than the unregulated investments Mr 
P made here  which are generally only deemed suitable for sophisticated or professional 
investors. As I will discuss, the investments Mr P made  presented an entirely  different level 
of risk. 
Mr P was an accountant earning  about £38,000  a year. He did not have any experience  of 
unregulated speculative investments.   
The storage  pod (Store First) investment into which Mr P invested  took the form of one or 
more self storage  units, which were part of a larger storage facility  in a UK location. Investors 
bought one or more units in the facility and they could  either  receive whatever income the 
unit(s) provided or sell them (assuming there was a market for them).  
Ref: DRN27853655Store First was the subject of a winding up petition issued by the Business Secretary in 
2017. Action relating to that is ongoing, and investors have  recently been offered the 
opportunity to transfer their investment to a newly-created  freehold company,  for nil 
consideration. I understand the investment has no realisable value. 
The Green Oil investment  was an agricultural  investment  hoping  to make returns  from 
producing biofuel. The Resort Group investment was an investment in an overseas holiday  
resort. 
All the investments were  unregulated and speculative. They were very high risk and the 
investor faced the real possibility of losing all their money. Because they were  unregulated 
Mr P did not benefit from the protection afforded by the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme  such as applied to his pension  before  it was switched. The majority of Mr Ps 
pension savings were  invested in these  three  investments.  
Mr Ps circumstances do not indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money  in the 
pension scheme  or that he could do so. They also do not indicate that he was suited  to the 
risks this investment presented. 
The risk grading itself, which may or may not be accurate,  is very much out of line with Mr 
Ps circumstances  and experience. But in any event the risk grading  does not suggest  that 
these unregulated investments were suitable.  As I have discussed, Mr Ps attitude to risk 
was described as:
Your priority is likely to be making higher  returns on your investments but you are still 
probably concerned  about losing money  due to rises and falls. 
And
Your preferred investment portfolio is likely to contain mostly  higher risk investments  such  
as shares with a few lower risk investments such as bonds.
Mr Ps apparent concern about  losing money  and balancing the risk he would take does not 
accord with making  three single investments in speculative high risk unregulated ventures. 
These investments  brought the risk of total capital loss. They could be difficult  to sell as 
there is no established market for them  such as is the case with retail regulated collective 
investment funds. The risks are much higher than investing in retail collective share based 
funds as he did in his previous pension. 
Mr Ps investment experience was very limited. He was an accountant  but he was not an 
experienced investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or would not be 
reliant on On-Line  to give him suitable  advice or consider his best interests. I have  not seen 
that On-Line gave  Mr P any material advice or guidance about  the investments, such as I 
have discussed.  
The value of Mr Ps pension funds was modest at about £78,000 . The material  issue  is that 
the majority of that money was designated for investing in store pods,  Green Oil, and the 
Resort group. That put most of his pension savings at risk of total loss. 
As discussed, On-Line knew that Mr P was intending to invest his pension funds in 
unregulated investments. It obtained very little detail about  Mr P his financial situation and di 
not provide any advice  as to the suitability of the investments. 
Ref: DRN27853656In my view On-Line did not meet its requirements  under COBS 9 to take reasonable steps to 
ensure suitability or obtain enough information  so as to advise  Mr P appropriately. As 
previously discussed,  that would include taking  into account what investments the pension 
switch was facilitating. It could not in my view have assessed whether these investments and 
the overall arrangement of SIPP and investments were suitable  for Mr P given the lack of 
information it had. It should  not have agreed to carry out the arrangement of the SIPP  in this 
situation. If it had carried  out appropriate fact finding and assessment of Mr Ps situation and 
the investments  then it would have known this transaction and these investments were not 
suitable for him. It should  have set out in detail why the transaction  was not appropriate for 
him, which it did not do.
       
Clearly, the evidence indicates that Mr P was not the more  sophisticated  and professional 
type of investor  for which these investments would be suitable; the risks of the investments 
are far higher than were  suitable and Mr Ps pension  was placed at far too much risk.  
Bearing all this background in mind, I do not believe  there  is any persuasive evidence  that it 
was appropriate  for Mr P to take the risks of switching, which put his retirement  income and 
benefits at much greater  risk. His circumstances suggest that it was not suitable to take 
these risks with so large of proportion of his pension benefits. He had no experience of 
investments of this type and no history of taking the kind of risks this pension  switch 
presented. 
Therefore I believe the pension  switch  was clearly unsuitable. 
insistent client
On-Line has said that Mr P should be treated as an insistent client and/or that the 
transaction was execution  only.  The transaction was clearly not execution  only as On-Line  
gave a recommendation as to the SIPP. I have not seen any plausible evidence that Mr P 
was insistent that the SIPP and investments had to go ahead.   
did On-Line  cause Mr Ps loss
As discussed, On-Line should have  advised Mr P against the pension switch  it and told him 
the transaction was not suitable for him. If On-Line had advised Mr P of this and the full 
extent of the risks of the switch and investments then I think it more likely that he would have 
taken account  of that advice and it would have been persuasive, coming from a professional 
regulated financial  adviser. I think it is more  likely  that he would not have switched his 
pensions and this advice would have changed his motivation to make the investments. 
It follows that he would not have switched,  nor needed to have transferred, his pension to 
the SIPP. So neither the SIPP  nor the investments  would have taken place but for On-Lines 
recommendation. Consequently any loss Mr P has suffered  through  transferring to the SIPP 
and investing  has been caused materially by On-Line.
In this particular  case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award, 
given the specific  circumstances. I am satisfied that Mr P would not have transferred or 
made the investments had it not been  for the failings  of On-Line. Had On-Line acted 
correctly in respect of Mr P, the investments would not have been made. As a direct  result of 
the On-Line failings, Mr P invested his pension into specialised,  high risk and unregulated 
investments.  
Ref: DRN27853657On-Line has said that BAMSL was involved in Mr P making the investments. But that 
business could  not carry out the combined  transaction of pension  switch and investments 
and so On-Line  took over responsibility  of advising on the switch  which, as previously  
discussed, should have included an assessment of the investments. So On-Line is materially  
responsible for the transaction taking place and any losses  caused are fairly attributable to it. 
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold On-Line responsible for the whole of the loss 
suffered by Mr P. I am not asking On-Line to account for loss that goes beyond the 
consequences of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused  the full extent of the 
loss in question. That other parties  might  also be responsible for that same  loss is a distinct  
matter, which I am not able to determine.  However, that fact should not impact on Mr Ps 
right to compensation from On-Line for the full amount of the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I think with suitable  advice Mr P would have kept his existing pension. But its unlikely to be 
possible for On-Line  to reinstate  Mr P into his previous pension scheme. 
There are also a number  of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award. While I 
understand it might be possible for On-Line to take over the investments from Mr P, the 
involvement of third parties   the SIPP  provider  and the investment providers  means much 
of this is beyond  this service or the On-Lines control. 
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award this 
service may make. 
While its complicated to put Mr P back in the position he would have  been  in if suitable 
advice had been given, I think its fair that Mr P is compensated now. I dont think we should  
wait and determine each and every  possibility before making  an award. What is set out 
below is a fair way of achieving this. 
 In summary,  On-Line should:
Ref: DRN278536581.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ps previous pension plans, as date of my 
final decision, if it had not been  transferred to the SIPP.   
2.Obtain the transfer value, as date of my final decision, of Mr Ps SIPP,  including 
any outstanding  charges. 
3.And then pay the amount of (1  2) into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer  value is 
increased by the amount calculated. This payment should take account of any 
available tax relief  and the effect  of charges.
In addition, On-Line  should:
4.If applicable  (see 4 below), pay any future fees owed by Mr P to the SIPP,  for 
the next five years.
5.Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
I have set out each  point  in further detail below.
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mr Ps previous pension plans if they had not been 
switched to the SIPP. That should  be the value at the date of this decision.
On-Line should  ask Mr P's former  pension provider  to calculate the notional transfer value 
that would  have applied as at the date of this decision had he not switched his pension  but 
instead remained invested. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of 
return that could  have been  achieved  if suitable funds had been chosen.
On-Line should  assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would  
still have been  made,  and on the same dates.
2Obtain the transfer value  as at the date of the decision of Mr Ps SIPP,  including any 
outstanding charges.  
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure. 
This could  be complicated where  an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold 
on the open market),  as its value cant be determined. That may well be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, On-Line should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment(s).
If On Line is unable  to buy the investment(s), it should assume a nil value for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations  should include 
anything On Line has paid into the SIPP.
Ref: DRN27853659In return for this, On-Line may ask Mr P to provide  an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. On-Line will need to meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. If On-Line asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
3Pay an amount into Mr Ps SIPP so that the transfer value  is increased  to equal the 
amount calculated in (3). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief 
and the effect  of charges.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr P as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
4Pay any future fees owed to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had On-Line given suitable advice  I dont think there  would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mr P 
continues to pay the annual SIPP fees if it cant be closed.  
Ideally, On-Line should take over the investments to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mr P back in the position he would have been in. If it can do so then it 
will not have to pay any future SIPP fees. But if that is not possible, then, to provide certainty 
to all parties, I think its fair that On-Line pays Mr P an upfront lump sum equivalent to five 
years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years  fees),  or undertakes to cover  
the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, On-Line may ask Mr P to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  he may receive from the investments  in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment he may receive from any party  as a result 
of the investments. That undertaking  should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount he may receive. On-Line  will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this 
undertaking. If it asks Mr P to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation 
awarded by this decision may be dependent upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, On-Line wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  from the investments, it must agree to pay any further  future SIPP fees.  
If On-Line fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr P should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to enable  the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, On-Line  is entitled to take, if it wishes, an assignment from Mr P of any claim Mr 
P may have against any third parties in relation to this pension  switch and investments. If 
On-Line chooses  to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of 
compensation is made. On-Line must first provide  a draft of the assignment to Mr P for his 
consideration and agreement. 
5Pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN278536510I believe Mr P will have been caused upset and inconvenience by his pension benefits  being 
significantly affected by the actions of On-Line. I believe  this payment is due to recognise  
that.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and order that The On-Line Partnership Limited carry out the loss 
calculation detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785365