K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained about action taken by Barclays  Bank  UK PLC in connection with his 
career development loan when he was experiencing financial difficulty.
background 
Mr R has a career development loan with Barclays. He stopped making the payments that 
were due to Barclays in respect of the loan between October 2017  and January  2018  
because he was in financial  difficulty.  He agreed a repayment with Barclays  in April 2018.
Mr R later found out Barclays had recorded  a default  against  him with credit reference  
agencies. He complained to Barclays and it removed the default. It also offered him £50 
compensation.
Mr R wasnt happy with Barclays  response  and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She didnt think  Barclays  
had taken into consideration  the full impact  its actions  had had on Mr R and had caused  him 
unnecessary stress when  he was already suffering from mental  health  issues.  She thought 
the default had contributed to difficulties  Mr R had experienced in obtaining  employment  in 
financial services. She therefore  recommended Barclays should  pay Mr R £500 
compensation.
Barclays accepted  our investigators  recommendation  to pay Mr R £500. But it didnt agree it 
was solely  responsible for Mr Rs application for employment being declined.
Mr R didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He doesnt  think £500 reflects  the true 
cost to him of Barclays mistake.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has accepted  it shouldnt have recorded a default on Mr Rs credit history. The 
issue I have to decide is how much it would be reasonable for Barclays to pay to Mr R to 
compensate him for the effect this had on him.
The default  Barclays had recorded against Mr R wasnt the only adverse information  on his 
credit file. Another bank  had also recorded  negative information. The default could have had 
a detrimental affect  on Mr Rs applications  for employment because potential  employers  
would carry out credit checks.  But on the basis of the evidence  Ive seen I cant reasonably 
say he would have  been able to obtain  employment  in financial services if the default hadnt  
been recorded.
Im satisfied Barclays action caused  Mr R unnecessary trouble and upset  at a time when he 
was already suffering from ill-health. But, in all the circumstances, I think £500 is reasonable 
compensation for this and Im not going to require Barclays to pay any more  than that.
Ref: DRN20819272my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays 
Bank UK PLC to pay Mr R £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2081927