K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy because  Aviva Insurance Limited  declined to fully cover  a claim made on 
his private medical  insurance policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of this, my final decision. In summary, I explained that I wasnt  intend  to 
uphold this complaint because  Aviva  had made a revised settlement offer that I thought  was 
fair. I asked Mr J and Aviva to let me know if they had anything to add. 
Aviva didnt add anything further.  Mr J made a number of further comments. In summary he 
said: 
Aviva  should have known the valve was not experimental  their chief  medical officer 
should have known this and he shouldnt  have had to prove this. He suggested that 
this was an attempt  by Aviva to avoid paying  the claim
He used the particular hospital because he was recommended to do so by 
practitioners at consultation appointments covered by Aviva 
He didnt really have a choice about going  to a different hospital  this was life saving 
surgery and he only found out Aviva wouldnt cover him the day before surgery was 
planned
I havent taken  into account the stress  and mental strain  this has caused and hes 
now under the care of a consultant, paid for by Aviva, to address the impact  this has 
had on his mental health
He has no choice  but to accept the settlement of £4322  as he has neither the mental 
or physical strength  to continue to fight this matter further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Js disappointment  and appreciate that his health,  and the issues relating to 
the claim,  have deeply impacted him. I have  a great  deal of empathy with his circumstances. 
My role is to decide, impartially,  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In 
reaching my decision Ive taken into account the relevant rules and industry guidelines as 
well as the policy terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN24273692Mr Js further  comments  havent changed my thoughts about  the outcome of this complaint. I 
say that because: 
As I explained in my provisional decision Mr Js consultant recently  provided  a more 
detailed explanation relating to the valve that was used.  This was much more  
detailed and persuasive than the information  originally provided.  And I remain 
satisfied that Aviva  took reasonable  steps  to check information  with Mr Js consultant  
before the surgery took place and the claim was declined. 
The timescales in arranging the surgery were  tight as I outlined in my provisional  
decision. I think Aviva acted reasonably given the time constraints involved  and did 
their best to allow Mr J to make an informed  choice about going ahead  with the 
surgery. 
Ive seen no evidence  to make me think Aviva were trying  to avoid paying the claim. 
The evidence Ive seen suggests  that their decision was made on the basis  of the 
policy terms and conditions together with information provided by Mr Js consultant 
about the procedure. 
I appreciate that Mr Js initial consultation  was covered by Aviva and he was referred 
to a particular  hospital. But it doesnt  automatically follow  that the hospital, doctor or 
treatment will be covered.  That depends  on the policy  terms and conditions  as well 
as commercial decisions the insurer takes  for example  which clinicians it will 
approve to appear on their list. I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in relation to 
Mr Js referral to the hospital
I carefully considered  Mr Js testimony  about the impact of this experience  on his 
mental health. And I agreed that Aviva could have acted  more sensitively at times. 
But, taking all of this into account, I remain of the view that the £600  compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused is fair as I think it adequately reflects  the substantial 
trouble and upset  caused to him 
Its a matter for Mr J to decide whether he wants to accept  my decision or not. It 
wont be legally binding on either party if he doesnt. I understand that Mr J hasnt 
received the payment for the updated  offer yet and that he hasnt cashed the £600 
payment for the trouble and upset caused. Aviva should  make arrangements  for the 
payments to be made if they havent  done so already.  
 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint as I think the revised offer to pay for the valve and pay £600 
compensation is fair. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to 
ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 26 April 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24273693COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION 
complaint
Mr J is unhappy because Aviva Health UK Limited  declined to fully cover a claim made  on his private  
medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr J needed an aortic  valve  replacement. He claimed  on his private  medical  insurance policy. A few 
days before  the surgery Aviva contacted Mr J to say they wouldnt cover  all of the expected costs 
because the valve was considered to be experimental.  Mr J went ahead  with the surgery and 
complains he was left with a large shortfall. 
In their final response letter Aviva acknowledged  Mr J hadnt received a good service as he hadnt 
always had responses to his emails  and one of the calls could have been handled more sensitively.  
They offered a total of £600 for the trouble and upset  caused. They  also agreed to increase their 
contribution towards  the surgery to £22 458 which  reflected an average price  based on three similar 
courses of treatment carried out at hospitals on their own approved list. This still left Mr J with a 
shortfall of around  £22 000. He paid the hospital £10 000 on admission and there remains an 
outstanding balance. 
Aviva told us that the type of valve used was experimental (as it was made  from animal tissue). They 
also said, as the hospital wasnt on their approved  list, they had correctly notified  Mr J of the 
limitations of the policy before the surgery took place.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold  the complaint. She thought  Aviva 
had made  a fair offer. Mr J didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
Having reviewed  the file I contacted Aviva to explain that I didnt think the use of the valve was 
experimental based on the available evidence. I referred to a recent letter  from Mr Js consultant 
confirming the valve was used in the NHS. I also pointed out NHS and NICE guidelines  indicated the 
use of valves made from animal  tissue was a conventional treatment. So, I explained my initial 
thoughts were  that Aviva should pay this part of the claim. Aviva agreed. 
Our investigator put the increased offer to Mr J and let him know my initial thoughts about the 
complaint. Mr J didnt accept  the increased  offer. In summary, he says that hes been fighting against 
Avivas attempts  to avoid  paying the claim and hes had to prove  that the valve wasnt experimental. 
He also pointed out that he was told about needing  to use a hospital  from Avivas approved list days  
before needing life-saving  surgery.    
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The relevant rules  and industry guidelines say that Aviva  has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its not in dispute that Aviva will pay for the cost of the valve together with £600 compensation. The 
key issue  for me to decide is whether  Aviva should pay the outstanding balance  for Mr Js treatment. 
The policy terms say:
If the member  receives treatment as an
In-patient or 
Ref: DRN24273694Day-patient 
For a condition or suspected condition for which we dont have a network, in a hospital  that is 
not 
An NHS pay-bed at an NHS hospital recognised by us, or
Included on their hospital list and recognised by us for the treatment they need
We will calculate  the average cost of equivalent  treatment across all hospitals  on the 
members list and that average cost is the maximum we will pay. This could leave the 
member with a shortfall  that the policy  does not cover. If the actual cost of the treatment is 
less than the average costs we will pay the hospital costs in full. We will cover specialists fees 
up to the limits in our fee schedule. 
Im not upholding  Mr Js complaint because: 
Mr J had an appointment on 20 November with a consultant  cardiothoracic consultant. This 
was following an emergency admission to an NHS  hospital and other private  appointments 
and tests.  Mr J says that during the appointment the consultant  recommended  dealing with 
the aortic stenosis immediately  as otherwise his life expectancy would be less than two years.  
Understandably Mr J was shocked. He was booked to be admitted to a hospital  on the 26 
November with the procedure scheduled for the 27 November. I entirely appreciate what  a 
difficult time it was and he was understandably  focused on getting the treatment he needed
Im satisfied Aviva reviewed the claim  and gathered the relevant information within  a 
reasonable timescale.  Aviva had a limited period of time to consider  the claim, as there were  
only three full working  days before Mr Js planned  admission. Mr J sent an email about the 
operation and the consultant provided  information to Aviva  on 21 November. Further  
information was then needed,  which meant Aviva needed to get in touch with the consultant 
and his secretary. Once  the medical  team reviewed the claim they declined  it, on the basis of 
the information the consultant had presented 
I appreciate  it was upsetting  for Mr J to find out the information about the claim on Friday 
afternoon, when  the surgery  was scheduled for the Monday.  But Aviva did need to confirm 
their decision on the claim and explain what costs Mr J would be covered for. I think  it was 
important to tell Mr J before his admission so he could decide  whether  to go ahead  with the 
surgery at his chosen  hospital  
I dont  think Aviva has treated Mr J unfairly  as theyve fairly applied the policy terms.  They  
have offered  to make  a contribution  to the treatment based on what they would  have paid 
approved hospitals on their list. I think that reflects the approach set out in the policy term Ive 
outlined above and Im also satisfied  Mr J was aware that his policy did have these limitations. 
I say that because he referred to his consultant being outside Avivas  approved fee scales in 
an email dated 21 November 2018  
Mr J did ask Aviva what  the shortfall would  be before his surgery took place. But this isnt 
something Aviva would be able to give guidance on and would be something 
Mr J needed to discuss  with the treating hospital. He was having complex heart surgery which 
did have the potential for complications.  And, as he acknowledged in emails to Aviva,  it was 
unclear how long the recovery time would be. I dont think they could reasonably  have given  
Mr J this information as it would have been very difficult  to estimate the cost of treatment. 
However, I can see he was given an estimate of the average price Aviva would  pay, which 
was around £18 500 before the surgery took place
Ref: DRN24273695Mr J says that Aviva  ought to have  helped  him to find an alternative hospital  on their list. 
However, based on the evidence Ive seen I think it is most  likely Mr J was committed  to 
having the surgery  at that hospital and on that date. I cant  see that Mr J wanted to explore 
other options, such as arranging  treatment at a hospital  on the approved  list. In an email 
dated the 26 November, the day of his admission, Mr J stated he was going  ahead with or 
without Avivas full support 
I appreciate  Mr J feels very strongly hes had to prove that the valve wasnt experimental. 
However, his consultant  provided more  information in January 2020 about  the use of valves in 
his NHS  practice.  This evidence was much more  detailed  and persuasive than other previous 
reports, especially when  reviewed together with the NHS and NICE  guidelines. So, I dont 
think its unreasonable that Aviva declined this aspect of the claim prior to this evidence being  
presented 
Aviva has now agreed to pay for the valve but not the remainder  of the costs. They  say that 
these costs  relate to his choice of hospital, which  wasnt on their approved  list rather than the 
valve itself. Mr J was aware before booking the surgery, and paying £10 000 upfront to the 
hospital, that there  may be a shortfall
I agree that some aspects of the claims  handling could have  been better, such as a call where  
Aviva acknowledges the discussion  about  the valve could have  been handled more 
sensitively. Ive taken into account that this happened  during a particularly stressful  and 
upsetting time for Mr J. But I do think that the £600 compensation offered  which is in the 
substantial range for our service - fairly reflects the trouble and upset he experienced. 
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  Mr J and Aviva have until 20 March 2020 to let me know if 
theres any further information which might change my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2427369