K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs H say Leeds Building Society (Leeds) mis-sold them the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The policy covered Mr H only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Leeds had to make Mr and Mrs H aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent  
before adding it to their mortgage. Theres limited information available from the time of the 
sale. Mr and Mrs H have told us they took the policy out during a meeting, Leeds  told us the 
PPI was taken out by post in response to a mailing  it sent offering the policy for free for a 
limited time. The PPI wasnt taken out alongside  any additional borrowing. So I think its 
more likely the policy was taken out by post, and as no borrowing was taken at the same 
time I think Mr and Mrs H would have known the PPI wasnt  a condition  of any borrowing 
and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why they may not remember  
this.
As the policy was taken  out by post with no interaction with a Leeds  representative  I dont 
think Leeds recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr H got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Leeds  gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had available to make  
the repayments, which included, sick pay, savings and another  insurance policy. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs sick pay, and for longer. It would also have allowed 
Mr H to keep his savings  in place to be used  towards other essential expenses.  The PPI 
would also have covered Mr H in circumstances that his other insurance wouldnt have.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Hs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for Mr and Mrs H if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr H off taking out the cover.  
Which means Leeds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Leeds  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Leeds didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN22203812To put that right, Leeds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building  Society does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Leeds  Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220381