K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain British Gas Insurance Limited has caused  damage to their property  
following a power  flush clean of their heating system. This was as a result of a previous 
complaint upheld by the ombudsman service. 
This decision involves  businesses working  on behalf of British  Gas. For ease Ill refer to 
British Gas throughout.
background
Mr and Mrs J had a new boiler  installed in 2012.  There were some problems following the 
installation which British  Gas agreed to refund increased premiums as a result of the call 
outs and offered £420 in vouchers/cash. The complaint was referred to our service  as Mr 
and Mrs J didnt believe this rectified  the problems  they were having.  
An ombudsman required:
A refund in the increase in premiums  Mr and Mrs J paid as a result of its errors.
For the claims history to be removed from the file so future premiums arent affected.
Offer  Mr and Mrs J £420 either  in Home Care vouchers  or cash.
Clean  the central  heating  system in line with the manufacturers recommendations 
and deal with any related problems  free of charge. 
Pay £250 for the frustration and inconvenience charged. 
British Gas carried out the cleanse of the central heating system over two visits in November 
2015.  
In January/February  2016 (both dates have been given) Mr and Mrs J noticed a crack in the 
kitchen ceiling. The ceiling  subsequently  collapsed. British Gas stopped  the leak,  repaired  
the pipe and restored the water supply. 
In March 2016, Mr and Mrs J were experiencing problems with their water pressure and new 
pump was fitted.  In April 2016 the damage  caused by the leak was assessed by a 
contractor, who agreed  damage had been caused  as a result of the flush but not all of the 
damage claimed for by Mr and Mrs J. They believed some of the damage was pre-existing 
or not related at all. They produced a quote  of £1,600 to repair  the damage, not including  
VAT. British Gas ultimately  offered this to Mr and Mrs J. 
On 19 April 2016 a second leak occurred. Mr and Mrs J called out a plumber to stop the leak 
which had resulted from a split ball valve in the thermal store  tank and a broken  housing for 
the over flow pipe.  British  Gas subsequently replaced the valve. Mr and Mrs J claimed the 
valve was blown as a result of the works  carried out by British Gas in November 2015 and 
March 2016. British Gas denied  this, citing the valve being worn  as it had been in situ for 
over 20 years and had degraded. They complained about the way British  Gas handled the 
cleanse and believed it should be covering the damage caused  by the second leak.
Because of the time British Gas was taking  to respond,  Mr and Mrs J asked us to look into 
the matter. And when  we asked the business for its file, it agreed  it hadnt handled matters 
well and offered £270  for the distress  and inconvenience caused, in addition  to the 
settlement offer already  made. However, it didnt agree it was responsible for any of the 
damage caused from the leak in April 2016.  
Ref: DRN24577772Mr and Mrs J had also claimed  that British Gas had installed a faulty thermostat which  has 
resulted in an increased gas bill. But British Gas said Mr and Mrs J had been advised to site 
the thermostat elsewhere but had refused. 
Our investigator put the offer to Mr and Mrs J, but they werent willing to accept it. So our 
investigator reviewed the complaint and concluded  the settlement offer already made was a 
fair resolution to the complaint. He also wasnt persuaded British Gas should pay for any 
increase in their gas bill as it had advised them to site the thermostat in a different place. 
Mr and Mrs J have asked for the matter  to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary,  they 
argue:
All the problems they have experienced stem from the power flush  that British  Gas 
carried out. They dont  believe a power flush should have  been  used to clean the 
central heating system. 
The quote from British  Gas contractor has simply been accepted by this office.  
British Gas is responsible for the escape  of water between  November 2015 and 
February 2016. They are entitled to obtain  independent quotes  for the work and 
expect to be put in a pre-flood condition. 
The contractor concluded there  was pre-existing damage. Mr and Mrs J admit there 
was damage but that this had been  caused by British  Gas in 2012  when  a pump they 
installed leaked. As the kitchen was due to be repainted anyway, they never 
approached British Gas about it. They consider the damage to the ceiling and around 
the window in 2016 mirrors that of 2012  which is evidence of the water  travelling. 
Following the installation of a new pump to correct the water pressure decimation 
following the power flush, another  flood occurred on 19 April 2016. Mr and Mrs J had 
to call out an emergency plumber who traced the leak back via the overflow pipe, 
which had come  away, and to the ball valve in the thermal store  tank. They say the 
plumber informed them the valve had completely blown  and was twisted  and out of 
place. They  further say the plumbers  conclusion was that it must have been 
subjected to extreme pressure.  They also say British Gas engineer accepted this at 
the time.  They  want their plumber  call out costs reimbursed of £114 and costs for the 
damage from the flood to be repaired. Mr and Mrs J contacted the manufacturer 
about the shower valve, who replaced it free of charge.
Following the breakdown of the central heating thermostat in March 2015, the 
thermostat was replaced by the engineer. But it didnt  work properly due to faulty 
wiring. This was rectified  in April 2015.  During 2015-2016 the heating never switched 
off despite it being  a very warm winter. They bought a thermometer to test the 
working of it and found it remained  on [at 26 degrees] when it was supposed to 
switch off at 19 degrees. Although an engineer  inspected it and said it was working 
the following  day it needed rewiring again. They were told they would get a refund of 
the increased gas usage but that has never  been paid.  
They should be paid compensation for the additional appointments needed to rectify 
British Gas mistakes. It has wasted  time and failed  to resolve the issues  that have 
arisen. 
Work  to repair the damage  still needs to be carried out. They also say air has been 
building in the central heating system  since the power flush. This has been  looked  
into but not resolved. 
Ref: DRN24577773Mr and Mrs J also want their premiums adjusted  if these have increased due to the 
number of calls outs. 
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman, who had noted Mr and Mrs J wish to obtain their 
own quote and that they wanted a premium  refund if increases had happened as a result  of 
the number of call outs. Mr and Mrs J have now provided a quote and further information has 
been obtained from British Gas. As my previous colleague wasnt  available to continue the 
case, the matter  has been referred  to me for review and determination.
I issued my provisional findings on 16 September 2019 explaining why I was minded  to find 
that much  of what Mr and Mrs J had complained about fell outside of my jurisdiction.  I also 
explained why I wasnt minded to uphold the remainder of the complaint. 
British Gas hasnt  replied to my provisional findings and so I assume it has nothing further to 
add. Although Mr and Mrs J acknowledge it might not alter the outcome they have replied at 
length. I summarise their points below  and respond to them within  my findings. They say:
Hot water pressure was decimated following  the cleanse. A new pump was fitted but 
the pump was switched  to maximum pressure, with the engineer not taking account  
that their system  usually works  at 1.5 bar. The sudden increase in pressure caused  
problems with the connected devices.  Some repairs were  carried  out the same day 
by British Gas, but other issues arose.  Mrs J considers  it apparent that problems with 
the shower valve and the radiators were as a result of the pump being fitted. The loo 
flush also wasnt working properly. It was agreed the bathroom  plumbing in general  
had reacted badly  to the new pump being  fitted. 
During this time a new thermostat was fitted as the old one was faulty. This needed 
fixing the following  day as it hadnt  been  wired into the system correctly.  The previous 
one worked perfectly and had been  sited in the same place. The engineer  who 
alleged the thermostat was working was the same engineer  who carried  out the 
cleanse. And if it had been working then why was it replaced in March 2016.  They  
are owed  money for the months  they had a faulty thermostat.  
When British Gas contractors reviewed the damage there was no suggestion  of pre-
existing damage.  
On 19 April 2016 they came home to find water coming into the kitchen through  the 
ceiling light fitting and the loo flush plate.  An emergency call out was made to a 
plumber who discovered the ball valve had been  blown  into the air and twisted  out of 
shape. The overflow pipe had come  free from its housing  and trapped  under the loo 
flush mechanism. The plumber concluded  the sudden explosive pressure accounted 
for the blown  ball valve and the broken housing to the overflow pipe. They  wish they 
had asked the plumber to provide more  detailed information at the time and 
wondered if it would be worth their while contacting the plumber  to see if they recall 
and can describe in their own words what they saw. 
The valve was damaged as a result  of the installation  of the power  pump in March 
2016 and not as a direct result of the work in November 2015. 
They believe either British Gas contractor should carry out the repair  or they should 
receive the funds  to enable their quote  to be carried out. They  also disagree the 
amount of compensation offered - £270   is sufficient for nine appointments needed 
to correct British Gas mistakes. They also want compensation  for high voltage wiring 
being left exposed and for any increase in premiums as a result of the call outs.
Mr and Mrs J have also provided a bit more background to the events complained  of and I 
have made  amendments where  I have considered it necessary and relevant to my decision.  
Ref: DRN24577774As explained before, Im not required to consider each and every point and I have 
summarised the background and arguments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it fair to say that a lot has gone  on here and a number of concerns raised. Although I 
have only summarised  the background and arguments above, I would like to reassure both 
Mr and Mrs J and British Gas that I have considered everything provided in its entirety,  
including Mr and Mrs Js response to my provisional findings. My role isnt to comment on 
every point made but consider the crux of the complaint and what has happened.  Having 
done so Im not persuaded that all of Mr and Mrs Js complaint falls within our jurisdiction to 
consider. 
As the parties are aware, Mr and Mrs J brought  a complaint to our service  previously about 
British Gas. That complaint was decided by an ombudsman, whose decision was accepted  
by Mr and Mrs J. That meant the decision was legally binding on British Gas and compliance  
with the decision  could be enforced through the courts if necessary. 
Amongst other awards made, the ombudsman required British  Gas to:
Clean  the central  heating  system in line with the manufacturers recommendations 
and deal with any related problems  free of charge . 
Mr and Mrs J have complained about a number  of matters, all of which they argue stem from 
British Gas carrying out a power flush to cleanse the central heating system. If I were  to 
agree that all of the issues that arose were due to the cleanse,  then they are matters we 
cant consider as a service. I explain why below. 
Under the rules  which govern our service, we can only consider  matters which  the rules  
allow us to do so. These  include whether the complaint has been  brought by an eligible 
complainant or if the complaint has been  brought in time. The rules also include the activity 
complained about.  
The rules  can be found in Chapter 2 of the Dispute Resolution section of the regulators 
handbook of rules  and guidance, available online. DISP  2.3.1R  says The ombudsman  can 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by a 
firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities. Following that is a list of activities 
that we can investigate. That means  we can only investigate Mr and Mrs Js complaint  if 
British Gas was carrying  out a listed  activity  when it cleansed the heating system.
The activities listed in DISP 2.3.1R  are:
(1)Regulated activities (other than auction regulation bidding and administering  a 
benchmark);
(1A) payment services;
(1C) CBTL business  [consumer buy to let];
(3) Lending money secured by a charge on land;
Ref: DRN24577775(4) lending money  (excluding restricted credit  where that is not a credit-related regulated 
activity);
(5) paying money by a plastic card (excluding a store card where that is not a credit-
related regulated activity);
(6) providing ancillary banking services;
(7) offering and/or issuing of investments by ISPVs;
(8) giving  non-personal  recommendation advice;
or ancillary  activities, including advice, carried  on by the firm in connection with them.
Regulated activities are a specified  list of activities that the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
regulate and authorise financial  businesses to carry out. I wont repeat the full list here as it 
contains a large  number  of activities. The list does include  effecting and carrying out a 
contract of insurance. And Mr and Mrs Js HomeCare policy is a contract of insurance. 
But when British  Gas was cleansing the central  heating system, it wasnt  doing so as a result 
of the policy, but as a result of the direction of the ombudsman who decided Mr and Mrs Js 
previous complaint. Im afraid the list of activities I can consider doesnt include complying 
with an ombudsmans  directions or award.  
The ombudsman required British Gas to deal with any related problems free of charge. 
Therefore, any losses Mr and Mrs J have suffered as a result of the way British Gas 
complied with the ombudsmans decision are not matters I can consider. Im satisfied the 
below matters flow directly from British Gas compliance with the ombudsmans decision  and 
so are not matters that fall within our jurisdiction:
The escape of water between November 2015 and February 2016 and the resulting 
damage. British  Gas accept this was as a result of the cleanse and have made an 
offer. 
Compensation for the inconvenience caused  by having to be home for additional 
visits as a result of the leak. British Gas has made an offer.
Any premium uplift Mr and Mrs J have incurred as a result of the multiple callouts to 
rectify the damage.  
Im afraid this means  I cant consider any part of Mr and Mrs Js complaint as a result of 
these matters. I know Mr and Mrs J are particularly unhappy about this and dont think the 
compensation offered is sufficient. But Mr and Mrs J will need  to enforce the previous 
ombudsmans decision if they dont believe British Gas has complied with the ombudsmans 
direction to deal  with any related problems  free of charge. Its therefore remains  my position 
that Im unable to make  any finding  or award  in relation to these parts of Mr and Mrs Js 
complaint. 
However, there are some matters which I find dont relate to the cleanse and so are matters 
we can consider. Ill deal with each in turn.
Damage to the kitchen ceiling and window
I understand Mr and Mrs J believe the damage to the kitchen ceiling and window sill are due 
the leak. They explain a similar leak happened in 2012, also as a result of faulty work by 
British Gas. However, they have provided  no persuasive evidence in support of their position 
 there  is no evidence British Gas caused a previous  leak in 2012.  The later damage  was 
inspected by a contractor for British Gas in April 2016 who concluded some of the damage  
wouldnt have arisen as a result  of the leak. They did note a stain,  which is reported as an 
Ref: DRN24577776area Mr and Mrs J had made good  from a previous leak,  damaged  paintwork which they 
didnt think was due to the leak, and pre-existing damage to tiles in the bathroom.  Overall the 
contractor concluded  the damage  boards in the loft, the insulation below that and the landing 
ceiling was due to the leak but nothing else.  
Mr and Mrs J argue their property was in good  order before the leak and all the damage was 
caused by the leak.  But they still havent  provided  any persuasive evidence  (which might  be 
difficult so long after the event)  to show the contractors conclusions  were wrong.  
Overall, Im not persuaded the damage to the kitchen ceiling and window was due to the 
aforementioned leak, or any other work  done  by British Gas.  I would say, if only for the sake 
of completeness, that even had Mr and Mrs J been able to provide persuasive evidence  this 
wouldnt have advanced their case here,  as it would have meant this damage  was as a 
result of the cleanse  and so out of our jurisdiction for the reasons previously given. 
Flood damage on 19 April 2016
Mr and Mrs J believe British Gas is responsible for another leak on 19 April 2016. This was 
following work British  Gas did to increase the hot water pressure (which Mr and Mrs J say 
had dropped following the cleanse). British  Gas installed a pump  on 10 March  2016 and 
following this a radiator  valve sprang  a leak, the thermostatic shower valve  no longer worked  
and banging  noises were emanating from the pipes. Investigation works were supposed to 
be carried out, but this never took place  and the leak subsequently  occurred.  
Mr and Mrs J called  out a plumber to fix the leak. And they say the plumber informed them 
the ball valve in the thermal store tank had completely blown due to the pressure,  was 
twisted and out of place. They consider this led to the damage to the radiator valve, the 
shower valve and dislodged the overflow  pipe. 
Our investigator asked  Mr and Mrs J to provide evidence of the plumbers findings.  They  
have provided  a receipt showing they paid £114 for the call out. This was attached to a job 
sheet that said:
 Ball valve in the thermal store tank needs replacing as possibly damaged through 
previous work [my emphasis]
The information provided by the plumber doesnt  support  Mr and Mrs Js assertions that the 
damage was caused by British Gas. The plumber has only indicted  the possibility of this 
being caused by the work  carried  out. But it only being a possibility means  its equally 
possible the damage was as a result of a worn ball valve,  as submitted by British  Gas or as 
a result of something else. I find the evidence isnt persuasive that British Gas caused the 
leak.
Mr and Mrs J have, in response  to my provisional findings, made somewhat contradictory 
submissions. On the one hand,  they say they have no idea if the drop in pressure, or the 
new pump being fitted, was due to the cleanse carried out in November 2015.  But on the 
other, they continue to say the water  pressure dropped as a result of the cleanse.  
It is very difficult  now, so long after the event, to know  what happened with any degree of 
certainty. I know  Mr and Mrs J have  referred to obtaining further information from the 
plumber. But I doubt whether the plumber will remember this visit more than three years 
after it took place.  And even  if they did any submission they provided would likely be affected 
Ref: DRN24577777by the passage of time. Im also mindful it has always been open  to Mr and Mrs J to obtain  
further information from the plumber had they wanted to do so. 
In my provisional findings, I said I had borne in mind that the manufacturer  of the shower 
valve inspected the damaged valve and concluded  there were  faults which caused the 
problems Mr and Mrs J had been experiencing. I do take Mrs Js point that the valve could 
have split from the pressure. But I also need to consider the manufacturer  itself said there  
were faults  with the valve. It seems to me the manufacturer would be best placed to know, 
and I would question  why it would say there was a fault, if that wasnt actually the case.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Js points about the radiator valves,  and that they leaked almost 
immediately on the new pump being  fitted.  But I dont think  that is persuasive evidence  any 
pressure caused  the ball valve to blow or the overflow  pipe to come away  from the housing.  
Indeed, given that they describe this as sudden  explosive pressure, I consider that if the ball 
valve and overflow  pipe had been damaged  as a result of the new pump being fitted, this 
would have been evident far sooner than over a month later.  I remain of the view the 
damage could  equally  have been  as a result of a worn ball valve. As Mr and Mrs J have 
asserted it was as a result of the work  carried out by British  Gas, it is for them to provide 
supporting evidence of their position and Im not persuaded  they have done so. 
I therefore find no basis on which to ask British Gas to make good the damage from the leak 
or to cover the costs of the plumber call out. Under  the terms of their HomeCare policy  
British Gas are liable only for repairs to the heat and hot water system. I understand it 
replaced the valve, which is what Mr and Mrs J are entitled to under the policy.  The damage  
caused by the leak may be something they can claim for under any buildings  or contents  
insurance they may have. 
Refund of gas usage between 2015 and 2016 as a result of a faulty thermostat
I have relooked at the evidence provided again given Mr and Mrs J comments about the 
thermostat. 
I can see they had their thermostat replaced in May 2015. On the job sheet signed  by the 
engineer and recorded on its system is advice that Mr and Mrs J ought to relocate their 
thermostat and have  something like the Hive system installed for better temperature  control. 
Mr and Mrs J declined to take that advice. 
I understand that following  the cleanse,  Mrs J contacted British Gas as her room  thermostat 
wasnt reading the correct  temperature and so an appointment was arranged.  This was 
originally arranged for 12 March but due to meetings another  engineer  was due to attend. 
Before that appointment took place  the leak of January/February 2016 occurred. And events 
overtook the thermostat  not working correctly. I can see from the information  provided that it 
was replaced on 10 March 2016  with a further appointment on 11 March to correct  the 
wiring. I understand  from the information  provided  by British Gas it was replaced with a 
programmable thermostat  which could  be relocated. 
I accept there was a problem with the wiring  over the period of one night. But I havent  seen 
any evidence that the thermostat installed in March 2015 was faulty  such  that it caused an 
increase in gas usage. And it would appear the new thermostat was of the kind that was 
recommended in the March previous and which could  be relocated  something which  
British Gas did advise  previously.   
Ref: DRN24577778Mr and Mrs J still havent provided  any persuasive  evidence that the increase in their gas 
usage was as a result of a faulty thermostat rather than it being  caused by something  else,  
such as it being  in the wrong place. Im therefore not persuaded British Gas did anything 
wrong. 
But I do find it shouldnt have been necessary for Mr and Mrs J to attend another  
appointment, as the wiring should  have been completed correctly on 10 March  2016 and so 
they should be fairly compensated  for that. I can only comment on the offer so far as it 
relates to this appointment and Im satisfied a fair offer has been made. 
Remaining call outs on 19 and 28 April 2016
I have already found above that the leak that occurred on 19 April 2016  wasnt  as a result of 
any work carried out by British Gas. Therefore, the call out wasnt  as a result of any wrong 
doing by British Gas but the natural result of needing to claim under the policy. And I have 
found the shower valve that needed  replacing was due to a fault with the part  the call out 
on 28 April. I find no basis on which to ask British Gas to compensate  Mr and Mrs J for the 
inconvenience caused in having to attend these  appointments.  
As I am unable to comment on the offer of compensation put forwarded  by British  Gas to the 
extent it relates to appointments needed  for the first leak, or the offer made to rectify  the 
damage done as a result of the cleanse, I leave it to Mr and Mrs J to decide whether not they 
wish to accept that. If they do, they will need  to contact  British Gas directly.  
my final decision
For the reason  given,  I find that much of Mr and Mrs Js concerns relate to an ombudsmans  
previous decision  and so not something  I can investigate.  I dont uphold  the remainder  of 
their complaint for the reasons given. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2457777