K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with a fee charged by Royal & Sun Alliance Plc (RSA) when she used a 
veterinary service outside of their preferred  referral  vet network. 
background
Mrs M has a pet insurance  policy with RSA. 
In late 2018, Mrs Ms dog needed treatment from a referral vet. Mrs M has explained that her 
usual vet referred her to another service, which she later found out wasnt  part of the RSA 
preferred referral vet network. RSA charged Mrs M a £200 fee as her dog was then treated 
by the vet outside of their network. 
Mrs M is unhappy  with the fee and would like it refunded. She says she didnt know she 
needed to use a referral  vet in RSAs preferred network, and that as her dog was very ill she 
hadnt thought about reading her policy booklet  at the time. Shes  also told us that she 
doesnt feel its fair to have been  charged  a fee, seeing as the referral  vet she used was 
actually cheaper  than her usual vet  where  the costs are covered under her policy.  
RSA didnt uphold  Mrs Ms complaint, saying theyd charged the fee in line with the policy  
terms.  
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service where our investigator  looked into it. He thought  
RSA had acted  fairly  in line with the terms and conditions  of Mrs Ms insurance  policy.  
Mrs M disagreed so the case  has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
On page 9, the terms and conditions of Mrs Ms pet insurance policy  state: 
If you choose a referral  vet from outside our network, you will need to pay £200  of the 
referral vet bill yourself. This amount  is in addition to your policy excess.
Page 9 also outlines where a policyholder can find details of their nearest referral vet in the 
RSA preferred network. 
On page 16 of the terms and conditions, Mrs Ms policy  also states: 
Referral vet visits
If your pet needs to be treated  by a referral vet, your usual vet will let you know which    
referral vet from our preferred referral vet network  is closest to you. If you choose a referral  
vet from outside our network,  you will need to pay £200 of the referral  vet bill yourself. This 
amount is in addition  to your policy excess.
Ref: DRN22398782I think this condition is presented in the policy a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. It 
isnt particularly significant or unusual, so Im not persuaded it needed to be expressly  
highlighted outside of the policy wording. And its included in two sections of the policy  
booklet  under All cover types - what we need you to do, to help us help you. And then set 
out in full under a clear  heading in the section titled Conditions that apply  to claims. With 
this in mind,  I think RSA are entitled  to rely on it. 
 
I appreciate Mrs Ms point that her dog was unwell so she didnt think  about  reading through  
her policy terms  when  it happened.  I can understand  that reading  the policy wording wouldnt 
have been a priority  for Mrs M at that point in time.  But Mrs M agreed to be bound by the 
terms when she agreed to enter into the contract  by purchasing the policy  and Im not 
persuaded it would be fair or reasonable  to require RSA to set aside this particular term 
because Mrs M wasnt aware of it.
Its not disputed  by either party that Mrs M used a referral  vet outside of RSAs  preferred 
network. The policy terms state  a fee will be charged in this situation and, as explained 
above, I think RSA are entitled  to rely on this term. So taking everything into account,  I think  
RSA have fairly relied on the policy terms and conditions when charging Mrs M the £200 fee.  
Mrs M has said that the policy terms only say the fee may be charged  not that it will. I cant 
see thats the case. 
Mrs M has also said the referral vet she used was cheaper than her usual vet, so she 
doesnt think a fee should be charged. While  I appreciate Mrs Ms point, insurers  usually 
have agreements in place with vets in their preferred networks, and often this includes 
reduced costs. But whether this is the case here or not, RSA is entitled to choose  which  vet 
is in its preferred network, and whether it wishes to charge a fee for treatment carried out by 
vets outside of that network. This is a commercial decision which is at their discretion  and 
isnt something the Financial Ombudsman  Service would get involved in. 
Mrs M has also raised that she feels shes being  punished  twice for claiming  once with the 
referral fee and secondly with increased premiums.  As Mrs Ms point about the price of her 
premiums hasnt been addressed by RSA, this matter  needs to be considered  as a separate  
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2239878