K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2006 
alongside a hire purchase agreement.  Mrs B says First Response  Finance Ltd mis-sold  her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Mrs B and her representative have  provided a lot of detail in support of this complaint. So I 
dont doubt the strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered everything they have said. 
However, it may be helpful  to explain that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every 
point thats been made   its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So while 
Id like to reassure them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said throughout 
this complaint, my final findings will be expressed  in considerably less detail.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Ive decided the policy wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs B says that she thinks the PPI was sold to her in a meeting. But First Response says 
their usual sales process would be to sell the loan and PPI over the phone   and it says this 
is what happened in Mrs Bs sale. Its provided  a screen shot of its records to show  that a 
call took place between  Mrs B and First Response as well as the notes  of what was 
discussed at the time. So I think its likely  the PPI was sold to her over the phone. 
Mrs B also says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. Unfortunately  there  is 
no call recording  of the sale for me to listen to  so I have  to make my decision based on the 
other information available. And from the evidence  Ive seen  I think  its more likely  First 
Response made  it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it 
out. I say this having seen a copy of the notes from the call which recorded the questions 
and answers discussed. This shows that First Response offered PPI to her and she was 
asked if she would like to proceed with it. The call notes suggest she answered yes. 
In addition Ive also seen the credit  agreement which Mrs B saw and signed. In this PPI is 
described as Optional  Payment  Protection Insurance and the overall cost of the PPI was 
set out here. Mrs B signed this agreement,  with PPI included, so I think  this reflected what  
she wanted at the time.   
Mrs B says First Response didnt recommend the PPI to her, but First Response says it did. 
Looking at the call notes from the sale it looks like the sales  person recommended  the policy 
to her based on the answers given at the time. So I think this was an advised  sale.
As an advised sale it was First Responses responsibility to check that the PPI was right for 
Mrs B  and based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and even  
though she says she couldve relied on her family  to support her, I think  she had a need for 
the cover.  I say this because help from others cant always be guaranteed, as their 
Ref: DRN23378602circumstances can also change over time.  And as Mrs B didnt have  any savings or sick pay 
from her employer, the PPI wouldve been  useful to her had she been too sick to work.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  This includes the fact that she wouldnt have been given a proportionate 
refund if she had cancelled her policy  or repaid the hire purchase agreement  early. But Ive 
not seen any evidence from the time that this was likely to have happened.  It also looks  like 
Mrs B wanted this type of cover and it seems like it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put her 
off taking out the cover. 
This means  First Response doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But 
First Response has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
First Response got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because First Response  didnt 
tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, First Response has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so First Response Finance Ltd does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But First Response Finance Ltd does have  to pay back  to Mrs B any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2337860