K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid)  was irresponsible  to 
lend her money.
background
Miss T out ten loans with QuickQuid  between January and November 2013. Miss T topped 
up some  of these loans. 
Miss T says that she was struggling with her finances and that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
adequate checks  before agreeing to lend. Miss T wants QuickQuid to pay her compensation.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ts complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
she thought that QuickQuid  should not have  agreed loans three  to ten.
The adjudicator asked QuickQuid to remove any negative information about loans three to 
six from Miss Ts credit  file. She recommended that QuickQuid remove loans seven to ten 
entirely from Miss Ts credit file. The adjudicator also recommended that QuickQuid refund 
the interest and charges that Miss T had paid on the affected loans.
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
When QuickQuid lent to Miss T the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)  and 
relevant guidance included  its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG). 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
QuickQuid should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN29806962the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Miss T could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ts complaint.
I think there were a number of indicators in Miss Ts borrowing history  that might  have 
suggested to QuickQuid that she was having problems managing  her finances by the time 
she took out loan three.  Miss T took out loan two a day after repaying  loan one. Miss T did 
the same  thing again when she applied for loan three. 
Miss T topped up loan two three times  which meant that the overall  level of borrowing 
increased by 175 % from loan one. Miss T then asked to borrow  £300 for loan three against 
a declared income  of £1,174. I think that this pattern of borrowing indicated  that Miss T was 
struggling to manage  her money and that loan three wasnt sustainable.
Although the amount that Miss T asked to borrow for the rest of the time fluctuated, I think  
that the fact that Miss T was taking on new loans sometimes shortly after repaying earlier 
loans showed  that she was in financial difficulty. And was an indication that Miss T was 
using the loans to help with day to day living expenses  rather  than as one off loans to 
cover unexpected expenditure.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Miss T to see if 
there was a point  at which QuickQuid shouldve reasonably seen Miss T was persistently 
reliant on short term loans. So that further  lending was unsustainable  or otherwise harmful.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ts case, I think this point was reached by loan 
seven. I say this because:
loan seven was the seventh loan that Miss T had taken out in just over six months. In 
my view,  Miss Ts pattern of borrowing  was in itself a demonstration of her inability to 
settle her loans over the life of her credit agreement. 
Ref: DRN29806963although the amounts that Miss T was borrowing fluctuated, she had been  topping up 
earlier loans. So Miss T wasnt making any real inroads into what she owed 
QuickQuid and her indebtedness  was being prolonged. This meant that Miss T had 
been paying interest to, in effect;  service a debt to QuickQuid over a long period.
QuickQuid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss T was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole the repayment  of her previous loans left in her 
finances and that Miss Ts indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Miss T lost out because QuickQuid  provided loans seven to ten because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ts indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the extended period of time she owed QuickQuid money was likely to have had 
negative implications on Miss Ts ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
I appreciate that QuickQuid thinks the mere number  of loans isnt enough for me to say that 
the lending was unsustainable. However,  QuickQuid will know (or should know) from 
pervious decisions  that there are cases where this service considers the overall  lending  
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.
Overall, I consider it fair to uphold Miss Ts complaint about loans three to ten.
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges that Miss T paid on loans three  to ten;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans three to six from Miss Ts credit file; and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about  
loans seven to ten is negative. So all entries about loans seven to ten should be 
removed from Miss Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Miss T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN29806964my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint in part and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2980696