K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) cancelled his motor  
insurance policy leading  to him being stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured.
background
LV sent Mr S his renewal  documents by post telling him that his policy would be renewed 
automatically. But Mr Ss policy was cancelled from the start because LV couldnt obtain 
payment for the automatic renewal. LV sent Mr S one email telling him it couldnt take the 
payment from the bank  details it held and warning  him of cancellation. It then emailed him a 
cancellation letter. 
Mr S said he wasnt aware of this and he was stopped by the police for driving whilst 
uninsured. LV declined to offer Mr S cover  because of the cancellation. Mr S said the policy  
wording said that that if his card details were changed then these would be updated by the 
provider so he neednt  do anything further. Mr S was convicted and he received six points on 
his licence and a fine. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  LV hadnt 
done enough to tell Mr S that his policy hadnt  renewed and that it had been cancelled.  She 
thought it should refund Mr S half the resulting increase in his premium for the next five 
years, refund  him any fines and charges  with interest, remove the cancellation marker from 
any databases, and pay Mr S £250 compensation for his trouble and upset.
LV replied  that it had posted  the renewal documents to Mr S but told him in these that it 
would email his new policy  documents to him. It said the policy  wording about  updating  card 
numbers wasnt included  in Mr Ss latest renewal. LV disagreed with how the premium 
refund should  be calculated.  LV asked  for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has 
come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said hed renewed his policy with LV for seven years. He said his documents  arrived  by 
post. For his latest  renewal, LV sent him the renewal quote by post.  It said payment would 
be taken in three weeks time from the card held on its records.  It said Mr S need  only 
contact it if he needed  to make changes and it would email his documents to him. 
Three days before the renewal date, LV emailed Mr S with his policy  documents and it said it 
had asked his bank for payment. The email  address  belonged  to a family member.  Mr S told 
LV that hed read this email. So, at this point Mr S thought that his policy would renew  as 
usual and he need do nothing further.
But Mr Ss card had been blocked and he had a replacement. So LV said it couldnt take his 
payment. It emailed Mr S asking him to call it to make payment or the policy would  cancel in 
14 days. As it didnt  hear from Mr S, LV then cancelled  the policy after 14 days and sent him 
confirmation by email.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN25729712I can see that Mr Ss policy states that if payment isnt made by the stated date, then the 
policy would cancel with seven days notice. I think this is clearly stated and isnt unusual.  
And so I think LV could normally rely on this to cancel the policy.
But I can see in the policy LV sent us that in the case of automatic renewal, if the card 
number had changed then LV said the provider  would tell it the new number. Mr S was 
aware of this and he thought his policy would renew. Hes provided us with evidence  that 
hes had the same card provider for several  years and payments have been made from his 
card to LV. 
LV said the provider  didnt tell it the number had changed. LV now says that this term wasnt  
in Mr Ss latest renewal  pack. But its in the policy it sent us. So in this instance I dont think 
LV can reasonably rely on not having  the correct card number as the reason to cancel the 
policy without doing more to try to remedy the situation.    
Mr S said he hadnt read the two emails from LV notifying and then confirming the 
cancellation. He said previous communication  had been by post.  He said he didnt use 
computers and a family  member had set up the policy and then forwarded  some emails on to 
him. 
The adjudicator has explained that this service believes that insurers  should take reasonable 
steps to ensure that policy holders are told that their policy has been  cancelled. This is 
because this will have serious consequences  for them and expose them to possible court 
action, as has happened with Mr S.
I think LV didnt do enough to contact Mr S before cancelling his policy. Mr S had received 
his policy  documents  and hed been  told payment would be taken from his card.  The policy  
said if the number  had changed, then the provider would tell LV. Mr Ss usual and preferred 
method of contact was by post. LV sent Mr S just one warning email and then the 
confirmation of the cancellation. I think if LV had contacted Mr S by post or phone,  then he 
would have made the payment. 
So I think LV cancelled Mr Ss policy unfairly and it didnt do enough to notify  him of this. 
This led to Mr S being  stopped by the police and being convicted of driving  whilst uninsured. 
LV thought  Mr S should have noticed  that his payment hadnt been taken. I agree that its for 
Mr S to ensure that his cover is in place. But I think hed done this and was left with no 
reason to think that the payment hadnt been made. 
When a business  makes a mistake, as I think LV has here, we expect it to restore  the 
consumers position  as far as its able to do so. So Ive considered what  LV needs to do to 
put things right for Mr S. 
I think LV should remove record  of the cancellation  from any databases where  its been  
recorded. I think it should also provide Mr S with a letter saying that the policy was cancelled 
in error.  Mr S can show  this to other  insurers so that his premium price  for his other car isnt 
affected. 
Ref: DRN25729713Because of the conviction Mr Ss premiums will be affected for five years as he must report  
this to new insurers, which I can see he has done.  Our approach  is that in this case we ask 
insurers to refund half the cost of the additional  premium Mr S must now pay for five years  
as a result  of the conviction. The reason why its half is to reflect the decreasing  impact  of 
the conviction over time. 
Mr S said his car wasnt impounded by the police. From what I can see, Mr S paid a fixed 
penalty notice  and received a conviction, fine and points. But he didnt then need to attend  
court. 
I think its fair and reasonable that LV refund Mr S the fine he paid, on production  of 
reasonable evidence for this. As Mr S has been  without  his money for some time, I think 
interest should be added to this refund.
The cancellation and conviction has caused  Mr S avoidable embarrassment, stress and 
inconvenience. I think LV should pay him £250  compensation for this. This is in keeping with 
what Id award in similar situations. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  
Company Limited  to do the following:
1.Remove record of the cancellation from any databases where its been recorded  and 
provide Mr S with a letter  saying that the policy was cancelled  in error and what  
happened.
2.Refund Mr S the fine he paid,  on production  of reasonable evidence  of this, adding  
interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date of payment to the date of the refund. 
3.HM Revenue & Customs  requires LV to withhold income  tax from that interest. It must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much its taken off if he asks for one.
4.Calculate the increase in annual premium Mr S had to pay because of the conviction for 
driving whilst uninsured, multiply this amount  by five and then a pay Mr S half the total.  
5.Pay Mr S £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience  caused by the unfair 
cancellation and conviction. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2572971