K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains American Express Services Europe Limited (Amex) refused to help her 
when she disputed a purchase she had made on her Amex  card at a jewellery store.
background
In November 2016 Mrs F travelled to New York State in the USA for a holiday. While there, 
she visited a jewellery store  with her daughter and purchased  a watch  from a prestigious 
brand for $6,124.26. The watch was a gift for her daughters birthday and was described on 
the invoice as [manufacturer]  pre-owned  certified.
Mrs F says she visited another  jeweller the next day to ask about the watch  and was told the 
bezel did not feel like a genuine one but it would need to be checked by the manufacturer. 
Concerned about  this, Mrs F says she phoned  the store shed bought the watch from and 
was assured it was genuine, but the bezel had been taken from another  model by the same  
manufacturer. 
On her return to the UK Mrs F took the watch to a specialist  dealer, which  sent it to be 
appraised by the manufacturer. The manufacturer issued a report which  confirmed the bezel 
was intended  for a different model,  but also stated the bezel, bracelet and dial had not been  
manufactured by it. The manufacturer said it would not service  the watch because it had 
been modified.
Mrs F says she rang Amex to warn them about the jewellery store. She said Amex raised a 
dispute (known as a chargeback) for her about  the transaction and refunded  it in the 
meantime. Mrs F was told her claim had been  successful  and there was no chance for the 
store to appeal, but a couple  of months later discovered the refund had been cancelled.  
Mrs F contacted Amex and was told her dispute had been invalid because of the stores  
returns policy. Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs F says she explained the dispute  was that 
the watch was not genuine and tried to find out more about  why things had not been  found in 
her favour. However, she became frustrated  by the responses shed  received  from Amex  
and made  a complaint.  
In the end, Amex  stood  by its decision not to uphold Mrs Fs dispute but accepted  it had 
provided her with incorrect information  and a poor level of service. It paid her compensation 
of £150. Dissatisfied with Amexs decision about  the watch, Mrs F asked our service to look 
at her complaint. 
Two of our investigators looked  into the complaint. The first investigator thought the watch  
had not been as described and Amex should have pursued the chargeback  further. He said 
as it was now too late to pursue the chargeback,  Amex should instead treat Mrs F as if the 
chargeback had been successful and refund the transaction.
Amex disagreed; it said it didnt think pursuing the chargeback  further would have been 
successful for a number  of reasons,  including  that the jewellery  store had a no refunds policy  
and that the watch  had been accurately described  when it was sold to Mrs F.
A second investigator then reviewed the case and suggested to Amex that it should have 
considered Mrs Fs dispute  under the protections provided by Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
Ref: DRN27788182Amex did then go on to consider  the dispute under  Section  75, but concluded the protections  
provided by Section 75 did not apply due to Mrs F buying the watch as a gift for her 
daughter. It rejected  Mrs Fs Section 75 claim.  Our investigator didnt think this was correct,  
and ultimately concluded  Mrs F would  have had a valid claim under the legislation,  meaning 
Amex should refund the transaction.
In the end, no agreement could be reached. In its last response  to this service  prior to my 
involvement in the case, Amex made the following points:
It remained of the view that the fact Mrs F purchased the watch for her daughter  
meant Section  75 did not apply to the transaction.
It disputed that the watch  was not genuine  or that it was incorrectly described by the 
jewellery store. It thought the evidence provided  by Mrs F was contradictory.
Mrs F had made no financial loss because she had, essentially, got an expensive  
watch for a bargain price.
The law of New York State would apply to the transaction, and it wasnt clear  whether 
she would have  a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the 
jewellery store under  this law.
The case  was then passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
During my investigation I asked Amex to clarify some of the points  it made in its most  recent  
response and asked it some questions  about how it had conducted the chargeback process. 
Amex said it was sure it had conducted the chargeback correctly, but it decided to review  its 
decision on Mrs Fs Section 75 claim.  Ultimately  it came to the same conclusion that she 
didnt have a valid claim, although it did now appear to accept that the fact Mrs F had bought 
the watch for her daughter was not a reason to turn down her claim. Its reasoning this time 
was different  it simply said it didnt  think there  had been a misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. 
There are two overarching questions I need  to answer to determine Mrs Fs complaint.  The 
first question is: was Amex right or wrong to decide not to reimburse Mrs F in her dispute 
over the watch purchase?  And the second question is: did the level of customer service 
provided by Amex during the course  of Mrs Fs enquiries about the purchase,  and her 
complaint, fall below  an acceptable level? Ill consider these in turn.
Ref: DRN27788183the purchase of the watch
When a consumer uses a credit card to make a purchase of goods or services,  then they 
may be able to seek assistance  from their credit card company if they have  a problem with 
what theyve bought. One of the grounds for seeking  assistance is Section 75  which  allows 
a consumer to hold their credit card company liable for breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions have been met.
Another avenue  a consumer can pursue is the chargeback process, where  the credit card 
company can dispute the transaction on their behalf through the agreements  in place 
between the credit card company, the card network  (e.g. Visa, MasterCard  or Amex) and the 
supplier. Unlike Section  75, chargeback is not a consumer right, so a credit  card company 
could refuse  to make one if asked. However, Id expect a credit  card company, as a matter 
of good practice,  to attempt a chargeback where  there appears to be a reasonable chance  of 
it succeeding. I would also expect it to conduct  the chargeback process in a competent 
manner.
Amexs handling  of the chargeback process
In Mrs Fs case, Amex offered to attempt  a chargeback when she rang to express  her 
concerns about  the jewellery store. Amexs  internal  notes show it submitted the chargeback 
under the reason goods/services not as described/expected, attaching Mrs Fs report  from 
the manufacturer. Amex later received a response  from the store which  said,  in essence,  
that Mrs F had been happy when she left; she had got the watch  for an incredibly low price;  
had been given a one year warranty, and that she had been informed that the watch was 
pre-owned. It attached a copy of the receipt  and its refund policy, which said it did not give 
refunds.
It doesnt seem to me that the stores response to the chargeback really addressed the 
concerns Amex had put to it on Mrs Fs behalf.  It was clear from the chargeback submission 
that the dispute was that the watch was not made  of genuine parts from the manufacturer. It 
wasnt a complaint about the refunds policy, or about the watch being  pre-owned. The 
stores response simply didnt address the issue  at hand.
Initially it seems  Amex  was unconvinced  by the stores response, concluding  in an internal 
note on 14 February 2017  that it does  not address [Mrs Fs] issue. The next day however, 
Amex changed  its mind, stating in another note:
 [Store] addressed  [Mrs Fs] claim of damaged/defective by saying they gave her a 1yr 
warrantyno refunds,  but exchanges within seven daysI feel [these]  address [Mrs Fs] 
claim of defective. [Mrs F] needs  to contact [store] for warranty  services.
This was clearly wrong  as Mrs F hadnt  complained  the watch  was damaged or defective. A 
later note by Amex on 17 February  2017 appeared to recognise  this as it said Mrs F felt the 
components were not genuine. However, it went on to say that because the store  had a no 
refunds policy, Mrs F needed to pursue the matter directly with them. 
Ive considered a recent version of the rules  of the relevant  Amex  card scheme and these 
appear to state  that evidence of a no refunds  policy could be used to defend a chargeback 
which had been  brought because goods were  defective, but not a chargeback which  had 
been brought due to goods not being as described. Mrs Fs complaint was the latter.
Ref: DRN27788184I asked Amex to comment on this and it said that a no refund policy  meant that a 
chargeback could never succeed. Amex also provided an extract  from what it said was the 
most recent version of the rules, which said the [supplier] must provide documentation 
that refutes  theclaim or documentation  to demonstrate that the quality of the Goods or 
Services providedmatched the descriptionprovided. I appreciate these are Amexs own 
rules, but none  of the information  it has provided  says that a no refunds or similar policy 
would be enough  to defend a chargeback brought because goods had not been as 
described, and ultimately Im not convinced this can be correct.  
Ive considered what the jewellery store said in response to the chargeback  carefully, and I 
dont think it refutes Mrs Fs claim or demonstrates  that the watch  matched the description 
provided: that it was a certified watch from the prestigious manufacturer in question. Indeed 
the jewellery stores  response appears  to have avoided addressing that issue and instead 
chose to focus on points Mrs F had not made. Whats  more,  Mrs F submitted compelling  
evidence with the chargeback that the watch was not what  it had been described to be.
In light of the above, I dont think Amex interpreted or applied the relevant chargeback  rules  
correctly, leading it to accept a defence from the jewellery  store which it shouldnt have. Ive 
considered whether Mrs Fs chargeback should have failed for some other reason, and I 
note the rules do say that she would have needed  to attempt to return  the watch to the store 
to carry out a successful  chargeback. Ive not seen evidence that she did so. 
That said,  it doesnt seem  Amex told Mrs F she needed to try to return  the watch, and I can 
see from its notes of telephone calls with her that it was aware that she still had the watch 
and hadnt attempted to return it. It also appears quite likely that even if Mrs F had tried to 
return the watch for a refund, the store would have pointed to its no refunds  policy and 
declined her request.  So she would be in much the same position.
Overall, I dont  think Amex dealt with the chargeback in a competent way. It made several 
errors which, in my view,  caused the chargeback to fail. Had it not accepted  the stores  
chargeback defence, and advised  Mrs F that she should try to return the watch,  then I think  
its more likely than not that the process  would  have been successful and she would have  
received a refund. So on that basis I think Amex  should act to put things right.
Ive also thought about whether a successful claim under Section 75 would have resulted in 
a materially different outcome for Mrs F than a successful chargeback.  Ultimately,  I dont 
think it would  have,  for reasons Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN27788185Amexs response to the Section 75 claim
I outlined earlier in this decision  why Amex had originally said Mrs Fs Section 75 claim 
shouldnt succeed.  In a recent letter its sent to Mrs F, it said that it was not entirely clear 
what the basis of your claim is but that it didnt think a breach  of contract had occurred, or a 
misrepresentation. It explained that to show the watch was misrepresented Mrs F would 
need to show  an untrue statement of fact had caused her to buy the watch.  It said that some 
of the modified  parts  were listed separately  on the sales invoice and if the main time-piece 
had the manufacturers  logo on it then they didnt think  it had been misrepresented.  Amex 
also noted Mrs F had failed to provide the information it had requested to review  her claim.
If the technical criteria  for Section 75 to apply  are in place (as I think  they are here), then I 
have to consider  whether Mrs F would have had a claim against the jewellery store  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  I asked  Amex  to comment  on the points it made  
about the law of New York State applying to the transaction and let me know if it wished to 
pursue these arguments. Amex didnt make any comment, so I dont know what difference  it 
thinks the laws of New York State  would make to Mrs Fs claim. Ive therefore approached 
this case on the basis that any differences are not material and that its most likely 
consumers in New York State, like those  in the UK, are entitled  to receive what  theyve 
agreed to pay for.
Mrs Fs case  is, in essence, that the watch she bought was not as described. She says the 
watch was described  as a genuine  article from the manufacturer, and this is what  she had 
agreed to buy, but this turned out not to be true because the dial, bezel and bracelet were 
not genuine components. Had she known this then she wouldnt have bought  the watch.
The manufacturers official  service  centre  has said that the three parts  in question  were not 
made by it, so I think there can be no dispute  that these parts are not genuine.  Ive 
considered whether this means the watch itself could still be described as genuine.  Its 
possible the other important parts such as the movement, the hands and the case  were 
indeed made  by the manufacturer,  as the service  centre doesnt comment on these. But Ive 
concluded the watch could not be described   without a great deal of qualification  as a 
genuine watch from the manufacturer in question. The dial, bezel  and bracelet make  up by 
far the most  visible parts  of the watch, and I dont think a reasonable person would describe 
a watch where these parts were non-genuine, as a genuine watch from that manufacturer.
As I mentioned earlier in this decision,  the jewellery store  described  the watch as 
[manufacturer] pre-owned certified. Although  the word genuine does not appear on the 
sales invoice, I think the word certified appearing alongside the name of the manufacturer 
would lead someone to believe the watch was a genuine watch  made  by that manufacturer,  
and this is what they were  agreeing to buy. This is consistent with what  Mrs F said she was 
told about the watch verbally,  and I dont think there was anything about  the purchase  (for 
example, the price  or the location) which should have led Mrs F to question  the authenticity 
of the watch. Im satisfied the store described the watch as being a genuine watch from the 
manufacturer.
Ref: DRN27788186Ive thought about Amexs  point that the bezel and the dial were listed separately on the 
invoice. Its not expanded  on why this is significant,  but I believe it thinks  the separate listing  
somehow indicates  the parts were not genuine.  I dont think  this is the case, and even if it 
was then it certainly wasnt very clear. On the invoice it only says diamond dial and 
diamond bezel  and I think this most likely served as a visual  description of these parts  of 
the watch. I dont  find there was any implication that these parts  were  not genuine.
Having considered all the evidence, I think its very likely the jewellery store breached  its 
contract with Mrs F. She contracted  to purchase a genuine watch  made by a specific,  
prestigious manufacturer, but received a watch which was largely made up of non-genuine  
parts and which could  not accurately be described  as genuine. Taking  into account the 
provisions of Section  75, I dont think Amex was right to turn down Mrs Fs claim. It should 
have accepted the claim and I think a fair response  to it, considering  how fundamental the 
suppliers breach of contract was, would have  been  as follows: Amex  should have refunded  
the watch purchase, arranged for the watch to be collected, and covered any reasonable 
costs Mrs F incurred  in demonstrating the watch was not as described  for example any 
cost of obtaining the report from the manufacturer.
Amexs customer service
Amexs customer service  to Mrs F has been disappointing in this case. Its clear that it 
accepts it fell short in its communications  with her  in particular giving her incorrect  
information and failing  to call her when it said it would. Its offered Mrs F £150 compensation 
for this, which I understand it has already paid her.
Im not convinced this goes far enough. Amex has contributed to delays which  have caused  
Mrs Fs case  to take much longer than normal to resolve. It also began  writing to Mrs F 
recently asking her for more information to carry out another review  of her Section 75 claim. 
While I understand Amex wanted  to review its decision  to turn down Mrs Fs claim, we dont 
normally expect financial businesses to continue communicating with complainants in this 
way after a case has been taken on for investigation by this service. It tends to cause 
confusion, which it has here.
Ive read the letters Amex  recently sent to Mrs F, and I can see it asked her for information  it 
already had, and then turned down  her claim for a second time in part because she had 
failed to provide  this information. One letter  notes  Mrs F had said shed already sent in 
everything theyd asked for. But it appears no efforts were made by Amex  to locate this.
I can understand Mrs Fs confusion and frustration at being  asked to repeat her case two 
years after she originally  made it. Shes said she thought it meant she would  have to start all 
over again.  In light of the impact Amexs handling of the claim and complaint has had on 
Mrs F, I think it should pay her another £150  compensation.
putting things right
In light of what Ive said above, and in broad terms, Mrs F should get a refund of the 
transaction and any associated  costs,  and return the watch.  This is because Amex did not 
handle the chargeback process competently, and in any case Mrs F likely had a valid claim 
under Section 75 which Amex should have  accepted. Amex  also provided poor customer  
service for which it should pay some  compensation.
So to put things right I direct Amex to:
Ref: DRN27788187Rework Mrs Fs account as though the transaction to the jewellery store was not 
made. This would  include refunding the original transaction,  any interest which  was 
charged on it and any other fees Mrs F has incurred  in relation to the transaction.  It 
should also involve  removing negative information (if any) recorded  on Mrs Fs credit 
file caused by the transaction.
If reworking Mrs Fs account in this way means  a credit balance  would  have arisen 
on it at any point  then Amex must calculate 8% simple interest  per year*  on this 
credit balance  from the point at which  it would have arisen, to the point at which it 
would have ceased to exist (or the date the complaint is settled, if that is later). This 
compensatory interest  should  then be paid to Mrs F.
Arrange for the watch to be disposed of at no cost to Mrs F. This should  include 
Amex covering Mrs Fs reasonable costs  in sending the watch  to it.
Pay Mrs F an additional  £150  compensation and cover  the cost (if any) of her 
obtaining the report from the watch manufacturer.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Amex  to take tax off this interest. Amex must  give Mrs F 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off, if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Fs complaint for the reasons explained  above. I direct American Express  
Services Europe Limited to take the actions  set out in the putting  things right  section of this 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2778818