K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  closed her account and sold 
her overdraft to a debt collection agency without telling her.
background 
Miss T had an agreed overdraft of £3,000. She tells us that in 2016 she had some  financial 
difficulties so she was in contact with the Halifaxs finance management team. The bank 
agreed to freeze her account for a period of time so she wouldnt have to pay any overdraft 
fees. She didnt get any further  information  about her account until she began  receiving 
letters from a debt collection agency. 
When she complained  to Halifax she didnt get the final response letter. She then found  the 
bank had sent it to an address shed left on 9 July 2017. She said shed tried to change her 
address with the bank online and by telephone on several occasions but it still kept sending 
letters to the old one. 
 
The bank said that in July 2016  it agreed not to make any charges or fees for six months and 
it referred Miss T to a debt advisory  charity. But it said her account remained overdrawn and 
after the end of August 2017 it went over its agreed overdraft limit and remained  that way. 
So it sent Miss T a formal  demand letter on 17 October 2017 asking for repayment  of the 
loan. Miss T didnt respond  so its collections department made  several attempts to call her. It 
couldnt contact  her so it closed the account  on 9 January 2018 with an overdrawn balance 
of £3,091.70. It doesnt have any record of Miss T trying to update her address until recently. 
And it said a customer cant use internet banking to change an address. 
The adjudicator thought  Halifax  had acted positively and sympathetically when Miss T told it 
she was having  some financial difficulties. And although she thought it was likely  Miss T 
didnt receive the formal  demand notice she could  see that Halifax tried to contact Miss T on 
many occasions by phone. So she didnt think Halifax  had done  anything wrong when it 
closed her account. 
But she didnt think the service Halifax gave Miss T was fair when she called  the bank to 
complain. During  one of the phone  calls Miss T explained three  times  that she had moved  
but the final response letter was sent to her old address. So she thought Halifax should  pay 
Miss T £100 for the inconvenience. 
Halifax agreed with this. But Miss T wasnt happy  with the adjudicators  view.  She said she 
was out of the country for almost the whole period Halifax  was trying to contact her by 
phone. And she didnt  think  £100  was enough  to compensate for 2 years of phone calls, 
personal time and unmeasurable  emotional  stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss T told Halifax she had some financial difficulties in 2016 it tried to help her by 
agreeing not to change her overdraft fees for six months. And it suggested  she contact a 
debt advisory charity to help her with her finances.  But a year later she hadnt reduced the 
Ref: DRN25818642overdraft on her account and so Halifax  issued  a formal demand  notice asking  Miss T for 
payment of the full balance or the arrears.  
The bank sent this notice to an old address. Miss T says she tried to change her address 
online and by phone. But I can see that Halifax  doesnt allow addresses to be changed  
online. And it doesnt have a record of Miss T phoning it from the date she moved until she 
phoned to complain about it passing  her debt to a debt collection agency.  So I dont think  its 
Halifaxs fault that Miss T didnt receive the formal demand notice.  
When it didnt get a response  to its formal demand  notice  Halifax  tried to contact Miss T by 
phone. She says she didnt get these  phone calls because she was out of the country. But 
theres no evidence  that she told the bank she would be away for a prolonged period of time 
and couldnt be contacted  by phone.  So I cant fairly say Halifax  was at fault for not being 
able to contact  her.
When Miss T phoned Halifax to complain  about the passing of her account to the debt 
collection agency she gave the bank her new address. But it sent its final response notice to 
her old one. Its agreed to pay her £100  as compensation for the inconvenience. I know Miss 
T wont  agree with me but I think thats fair and reasonable. Its compensation for the 
mistake Halifax  made in not updating  her address after shed phoned to complain.  But as I 
havent found that Halifax did anything  wrong  up to that point I cant  ask it to compensate her 
for any distress or inconvenience shed experienced before then.
my final decision
My decision  is that Bank of Scotland plc must pay Miss T £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience its caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2581864