K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the way Aviva  Insurance Limited trading as Quotemehappy.com  
(Aviva) has settled  a claim on her car insurance policy. 
background
Mrs C was involved in an incident with another car in January 2018. Mrs C reported the 
incident to her car insurance policy provider, Aviva. It settled the claim on a 50/50 split 
liability basis. This meant it was recorded  as a fault claim for both parties.
Mrs C doesnt agree with this decision. She didnt think Avivas decision was fair and wants  
the claim recorded as non fault. 
Aviva says it considered  the evidence including the pictures Mrs C provided. It says the 
evidence isnt clear  cut and it felt it had no option  other than to deal with liability on a 50/50 
basis. Thats  how it thought a judge in court  would  view this. Mrs C was still unhappy so she 
brought her complaint  to our service. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and explained  that we dont decide liability  as this is 
the role of the courts. The investigator  thought that Aviva had investigated the claim and 
reached its decision in a reasonable way so they didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mrs C didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.  She says that 
her car was stationary on the left hand side of the road when the other  driver  drove  into the 
back of her car. So the case has been passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Cs 
complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment  to Mrs C but Ill explain my 
reasons why.
When the incident occurred, Mrs C says she was stationary  on the left hand side of the road 
at a give way point when another driver turning into the road collided with her car. There 
were no independent witnesses or CCTV footage. Mrs C took pictures  of both cars at the 
time of the incident. 
Mrs C strongly  believes  the other  driver was at fault for the incident  and that they admitted 
fault at the time. She says the other driver misjudged the space causing them  to hit the back  
of her car when they tried to manoeuvre around. 
Aviva said the other drivers insurer didnt admit  liability.  In these circumstances it says it was 
going to be difficult  to prove liability  and because both parties disagreed as to who was at 
fault, it made  the decision to settle  the claim on a 50/50 split liability  basis.  
Ref: DRN22475822Its not my role to decide who was at fault for the incident. I can only look to see if Aviva 
made its decision on how to settle the claim on a fair and reasonable basis. Mrs Cs policy  
has a term which allows Aviva to take over and settle a claim as it sees  fit. This means  Aviva  
might make a decision to settle a claim which Mrs C doesnt agree with, but the policy  allows 
this to happen. Any decision on how to settle a claim should be made after carrying  out a 
proper investigation.  
Insurers deal with claims regularly and make decisions based on experience,  previous cases  
and likelihood  of success if the case went to court. An insurer  usually wont progress a claim 
to court  - with the risk of significant  costs  - if its chances of success  arent  reasonably high. 
Mrs C believes  the pictures she took at the time of the incident prove the other driver was at 
fault. Aviva  said it had considered these pictures.  It says the pictures  show that the back  of 
Mrs Cs car was over the centre line (even if only slightly) - and that there was no other 
independent witness  or CCTV footage to support Mrs Cs position. Because of this, it thinks 
it would  have been very difficult to prove  the other driver was completely at fault for the 
incident if it took the claim to court.
I understand Mrs C strongly  disagrees  with Avivas  decision.  But I think  it acted  reasonably 
when carrying out its investigation taking into consideration the available evidence,  which  in 
this case were the pictures  - and in line with the policy terms and conditions. So I dont think 
it needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2247582