K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that AvantCredit  of UK, LLC, shouldnt have lent him money  in May 2016.
background
In October  2015 and May 2016,  AvantCredit lent Mr S money.
In October 2015, it lent Mr S £1,500. Mr S agreed to repay  this, with interest, over a 
term of 12 months.  The monthly repayment was £147.72 a month   so if the loan ran 
to term Mr S would pay £1,772.64 in total. Mr S repaid this loan early, in May 2016.
In May 2016, AvantCredit lent Mr S £3,500 over 36 months. The monthly repayment 
was £150.01.  If the loan ran to term Mr S would pay £5,400.40 in total. Mr S entered  
a debt management plan in late 2017.
Mr S thinks  it was irresponsible for AvantCredit  to lend him the second loan. He says that by 
the time he took out the second loan, he was unable to meet his outgoings without having to 
borrow.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 2 March 2020.  I explained  that based 
on what Id seen, the complaint about  the second  loan should  be upheld.
I said:
Id considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In considering what  is fair and 
reasonable I have  taken  into account  relevant law and regulations;  regulators rules,  
guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what  I consider  to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
As AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  
Mr Ss creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the 
agreement to adversely impact  Mr Ss financial situation, and the ability  for Mr S to 
make repayments as they fell due over the term of the loan. 
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to AvantCredit said it needed  to take 
reasonable steps to assess Mr Ss ability to meet the repayments under the 
agreement in a sustainable manner without  Mr S being  able to make the payments 
on time while meeting  his other reasonable commitments and without  having  to 
borrow to meet these  repayments.
These checks needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan. 
This would  depend  on a number  of factors, including things like the customers  
financial history, their financial situation at the time of the loan application,  along  with 
other factors such as the amount borrowed, type of loan and the cost of the credit  
being sought.
In Mr Ss case, AvantCredit said it used information Mr S gave them  during the 
application process together with information  from a credit reference  agency. I said 
Id looked at the information AvantCredit  used.  I was concerned  this suggested Mr S 
was in financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN21903972One of Mr Ss accounts was in default. So Mr S was already having difficulties 
meeting his existing  debts when due.
The credit  report also showed 40 short  term loan accounts. Only one of those was 
open when Mr S applied for the first loan from AvantCredit  but three had opened in 
the last three months, and six had opened in the last six months.  I felt this strongly 
suggested that Mr S was having difficulties managing  his monthly spending  without 
rolling over existing short term debts from one month to the next.
The credit  report also highlighted concerns with Mr Ss card utilisation   and by 2016 
the report showed that there  were concerns about  the number of new accounts Mr S 
had opened in the last three  months.
Given these concerns, I thought that further  checks would have been proportionate. 
So I went on to consider what further  checks would have  revealed.
With respect to the 2015 loan, I was mindful that Mr Ss main concerns appeared to 
be with the second  loan, in 2016.  So while I had some concerns that there  were  
signs at this stage  that Mr Ss existing indebtedness was becoming unsustainable,  I 
didnt propose  to uphold this part of the complaint.
But I thought  the compliant about the lending in 2016 should be upheld. I said that 
Mr Ss financial position had deteriorated. Mr S had spent the advance  from the 2015  
loan within two weeks, and then taken out further short  term lending. The 2015 loan 
was repaid in April 2016 by a loan for £2,500, from another  lender. That new loan 
was open for just 17 days before  Mr S applied for the 2016  loan from AvantCredit.
The information Id seen showed  that Mr S had applied for a further  credit  card  and 
by April 2016 was close to his limit for all his credit  cards.
So I felt, based  on the information  Id seen, there was a real prospect that Mr S would 
need to borrow  again to afford the repayments  for the new loan. He was borrowing a 
larger sum over a longer term  and just weeks after hed tried to consolidate his 
existing debts with a loan from another lender.
For these reasons, I thought it likely that if AvantCredit had carried out further 
checks, it would have realised this debt was unsustainable  and so it shouldnt have 
lent.
To put things right, I proposed that AvantCredit should remove all interest, fees and 
charges from the outstanding balance on the loan,  and treat any repayments  made  
by Mr S as though  they had been repayments  of the principal. If this led to Mr S 
having made overpayments,  then AvantCredit should refund the overpayments  with 
8% simple interest  calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen to the date the complaint  is settled. If there was an outstanding 
balance, then AvantCredit should agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
I also said that AvantCredit should  remove any adverse  information  recorded on Mr 
Ss credit file in relation  to the loan once  it is settled.
I said Id consider any further points raised by 16 March.
Ref: DRN21903973Mr S has replied  to say he agreed  with my provisional findings.
AvantCredit doesnt agree. Although the information provided by Mr S may have shown 
different information,  based on the information it had it thinks the second  loan in 2016 would 
have been affordable. It says this because at the time of lending  the customer had creditor 
balances of £7,418 excluding mortgages  and the loan amount of £3,500 would have 
consolidated 47% of the customers credit commitments.  It says this would have reduced his 
monthly repayments from £946 to £501.38   which  would have made the loan affordable.
It also says that Mr S had no active loans  at the time of lending  and so those loans taken 
out prior to lending  had been repaid in full before applying this loan.  So though Mr S may 
have attempted  to consolidate his borrowing before, it would not have  been  able to see this.
I have therefore  considered  the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and what I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time.
As AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  Mr Ss 
creditworthiness, including the potential for the commitments under the agreement to 
adversely impact Mr Ss financial  situation,  and the ability for Mr S to make repayments  as 
they fell due over the term of the loan. 
In particular, the regulators rules that applied to AvantCredit said it needed  to take 
reasonable steps to assess Mr Ss ability to meet the repayments under the agreement in a 
sustainable manner  without Mr S being  able to make the payments on time while  meeting 
his other  reasonable commitments  and without  having to borrow  to meet  these repayments.
Ive carefully considered  the points AvantCredit  has raised. But it doesnt  change my 
conclusion. Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at the checks AvantCredit  carried out before lending. AvantCredit has sent 
us a copy of the application form. This shows Mr S disclosed  a monthly net income of 
£1,858.00. The application also showed  expenses  of £1,100. AvantCredit said it then 
compared this to information  from a credit reference agency to decide an affordable  
rerpayment. AvantCredit  has sent a copy of the information from the credit reference 
agency.
The credit reference  agency prepared an affordability report.  This showed  that Mr S was 
exceeded the credit limits  of his credit  cards  and has also been  in this position  three  
months and a year previously. I also see this report shows 4 new accounts opened in the 
last three  months,  and three balance increases. Mr Ss debt balance had also increased  by 
around £1,690  in the last year. I note that the number of new accounts opened and card 
utilisation ratios  were  highlighted  in red on the report.
Ref: DRN21903974The full credit file AvantCredit has sent shows us that Mr S had £7,418 in outstanding  
unsecured debt  and that his total monthly  payments  on these accounts were £946.  I notice  
that the report showed one account  in default, with a balance of greater  than £500.  The 
report said there were overindebtedness indicators present. I also note that the report  
showed that Mr S had used 13 different companies  in the previous  12 months,  and opened  
15 accounts. The report shows  hed had 45 short term loan accounts in total,  of which  three 
had opened in the last three months,  and four had opened in the last six months  but he 
had settled all of these.  I also see his total monthly repayments towards credit had increased 
significantly over the previous 6 months,  from £157  a month six months  previously to £946  
now.
Finally, Im mindful  that AvantCredit had lent money to Mr S before. The information in the 
credit reference suggested  Mr Ss financial position  had continued to deteriorate,  despite the 
earlier lending. Mr S had continued to take out and repay short  term loans. This should  have 
alerted AvantCredit  to the possibility that hed been relying on short term credit to meet  the 
payments on his earlier commitments.
Thinking about  all of this, I think further  checks would have been proportionate. I think  the 
information AvantCredit had suggested Mr S was relying on short  term debts to meet his 
expenses  it seemed  likely that he was borrowing and repaying short  term debts every  
month. He was doing this despite  having  borrowed from AvantCredit only a year previously. 
The default, though some time previously, suggested Mr S was having difficulties meeting 
his existing credit commitments when due  as did the utilisation of his credit  cards.  The 
payments shown on the credit file towards  his existing credit commitments,  when added to 
his other  regular expenses shown on the application, exceeded his salary.  Having previously 
borrowed money over 12 months,  he was now borrowing the money over 36 months  a 
longer term  and it was important for AvantCredit to consider Mr Ss ability to make  the 
payments over this longer  period. And the credit  file showed that Mr Ss existing repayments 
had increased  significantly over the previous  year. So I think  some further verification of his 
outgoings would have been proportionate.
Ive thought about what AvantCredit has said about  all this. It said that as Mr S was 
borrowing £3,500,  and as £3,500 is around 47% of his £7,418 in existing credit 
commitments, it follows that his monthly payments towards his existing credit would also 
have been 47% less, or £501.38. But I dont think its possible to say this without knowing in 
more detail the terms of Mr Ss existing debts.
AvantCredit also says theres no way it would have known about  Mr Ss existing loans. But I 
see that existing  loans are shown on the credit report AvantCredit  sent us.
Ive thought about what would have happened if AvantCredit made further checks.  Mr S has 
sent me bank statements, and I think the information  shown on these are likely to reflect 
what further checks are to have revealed.  Having done so I see that Mr S spent more than 
his salary in each of the three  months  prior to this loan being  taken  one. He was funding this 
by taking out short term loans. He borrowed £440 in February 2016, and £810  in March 
2016. Then at the end of April 2016,  he took out a loan of £2,500. It looks  as though  this was 
over a term of 36 months. Just 18 days later, Mr S applies for this new loan with AvantCredit.  
Around £2,660 was used  to repay the loan from April. I note that the payments towards  this 
new loan were higher   given that Mr S was borrowing more  than his existing loan. And 
even with this new loan, Mr S still had considerable credit card debts (nearly  £6,000)  which 
werent decreasing.  Finally, having relied  for a long time on short  term loans he was now 
extending his debt over a longer term. 
Ref: DRN21903975If AvantCredit had carried out further checks, I think it would have realised that Mr S was 
borrowing to meet his existing credit commitments. I think  there  was a real prospect hed do 
this again. So I dont think AvantCredit should have lent Mr S the additional funds.
putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt  have given Mr S the second  loan. I understand that there may be a 
balance outstanding on it.
a)AvantCredit should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding 
balance on the loan, and treat any repayments made  by Mr S as though they had 
been repayments of the principal. 
If this results  in Mr S having made  overpayments  then AvantCredit should  refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is an outstanding balance  then AvantCredit should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr S.
b)AvantCredit should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in 
relation to the loan once the loan is settled
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if Mr S asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC,  should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2190397