K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited (BMW FS) under settled his 
previous finance  agreement  when  he entered into a new agreement. This meant he had to 
pay an outstanding  balance of £302.45.  He wants this money refunded.
Background
In January 2018, Mr S agreed  to part exchange  vehicle A which was subject to a HPA 
(agreement A) as part of a new transaction (agreement B). He says that during the 
discussion he was told the settlement  amount  due under agreement  A was around £8,800. 
He says he thought the amount was slightly lower but as he didnt  know  the exact  amount  he 
asked that this be obtained  from BMW FS. He says he was told this couldnt  happen  and he 
would need to provide a copy of the settlement letter. He says the sale advisor then turned 
to a colleague and said that if there  was a difference then the figures could be adjusted. 
Mr S says that based on this he went ahead with agreement B.
On 16 January 2018, Mr S says he sent a copy of the settlement letter  to the dealership 
which showed a settlement  amount  of £8,902.45.  He says he didnt get a response to his 
email and given  the previous conversations he assumed his agreement B had been adjusted  
to reflect  the settlement amount.
When Mr S went to part exchange his vehicle he was told he needed to pay an additional 
£302.45 as only £8,600  had been  paid to BMW  FS instead of the full settlement amount. 
Mr S says he paid the amount under protest. He says he asked for a copy of the complaints 
process and was told one didnt  exist and instead was just given  a name.
Shortly after, BMW  FS attempted to withdraw the final balloon  payment due under 
agreement A, despite this having meant to have been settled as part of agreement B. He 
says this resulted  in issues  with his bank.
Mr S says the issues with his agreements have caused him stress. He wants  an apology  and 
the £302.45 refunded.
BMW FS says that it did incorrectly  attempt to take the balloon  payment for agreement  A in 
March 2018. It says the payment was returned  as cancelled and so no refund was required.  
However it says it offered  to pay Mr S £100 compensation because of the trouble and upset  
caused. Mr S accepted  this offer and payment was made.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He was satisfied that based on the information 
provided it was reasonable that Mr S expected  the balance on his previous agreement A to 
be cleared in full as part of agreement B and that it was based on this that he agreed to the 
agreement B. He also noted  that Mr S hadnt  been given the service  he should  have  when 
he asked about  the complaints procedure and also in regard to funds being taken from his 
account.
Because of the issues our adjudicator recommended that Mr S be refunded  the £302.45 he 
paid along with £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr S responded to our adjudicators view saying that the issues  raised about the £302.45 
payment and the balloon  payment were separate although they were  linked to the same 
process.
Ref: DRN26268822BMW FS didnt accept our adjudicators  view.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and concluded in summary:
Mr S agreed to enter  into a HPA with BMW  FS, agreement B, on the understanding  
that he would part exchange his previous vehicle, vehicle A, and that his previous 
agreement, agreement A, would be settled; 
although the settlement amount due under agreement A wasnt  available  at the time 
of the discussions  Mr S believed he wouldnt be required to pay anything  further and 
the settlement  amount for agreement A would be reflected in agreement  B;
Mr S provided the settlement figure but the full amount  wasnt paid and so a shortfall 
arose that Mr S was asked to pay on collection of vehicle B.
a mistake was made as Mr S was led to believe  that agreement A would  be settled in 
full as part of agreement B;
while I accepted  a mistake was made,  I did not find that Mr S has suffered a financial 
loss as a result  of this. I noted  that the dealership offered  to refund Mr S half of the 
amount he had to pay at collection and I suggested  Mr S discuss this directly with the 
dealership;
this issue was upsetting for Mr S and it was an inconvenience having to make the 
payment when he went to collect the car. He also wasnt provided with the service he 
should have been  when  he asked  for the complaints procedure and had to chase a 
payment;
Mr S should be compensated for the upset and inconvenience  he had been caused 
and I thought a payment of £100  was reasonable;
Mr S complaint regarding an incorrect payment attempt had been resolved.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision.  He agreed that he was led to believe there  
would be nothing further to pay but said that it wasnt agreed that a different settlement 
amount would be a cost chargeable through agreement B. He said at a previous meeting he 
had been told the full settlement amount due on agreement A would be paid when he 
entered into agreement B. He said he confirmed in January that the settlement figure would  
be covered and was told this would happen  and the agreement would be updated once the 
amount was known.  He said he was never  tod that the estimated settlement amount would 
be paid and he would need to pay the extra on collection. He said that had he known the full 
settlement amount wouldnt have been  paid he would  have renegotiated agreement B.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory I have  made  my decision based on the balance  of probabilities; that is what  I 
Ref: DRN26268823consider most likely to have happened given the information provided and the wider 
circumstances of the complaint.
I accept that a mistake  was made.  Mr S was led to believe  that the settlement amount due 
on agreement A would be covered in full through agreement B. This didnt  happen and 
instead of the actual  settlement amount being  paid, an estimated settlement amount of 
£8,600 was paid. This then resulted in a shortfall  that Mr S was required to pay on collection 
of vehicle B. I understand how frustrating this must  have been. Mr S wasnt  told there was a 
shortfall and wasnt aware that he would need to make a further payment. 
As I set out in my provisional  decision our role is not to punish the business when a mistake  
has been made but to ensure action is taken to put the consumer back  in the position they 
would have been had the mistake not been made. In this case I find that this would  have 
meant that agreement B would have included  the higher settlement figure. I appreciate  Mr S 
comments that had he known this increase would be a cost included  in agreement B he 
would have tried to renegotiate. I cannot  say what discussions would have  taken place in 
these circumstances  or what the outcome  would  have been. 
I have made  my decision based  on the evidence available and, as I set out in my provisional  
decision, I find it more  likely than not that Mr S didnt suffer a financial loss due to the 
mistake that was made. This is because  the sales invoice showed the price of vehicle  A 
which corresponded with the price  recorded  in agreement B. However the sales invoice then 
showed a part payment  of £1,000,  a part exchange amount of £697.55, and the correct 
settlement amount of £8,902.45. Agreement B showed the advance  payment amount as 
£2,000. That is £302.45 higher than the combination  of the part exchange amount and part 
payment recorded  in the sales invoice. This suggests that had the figures  in agreement B 
been adjusted  as Mr S expected to reflect the correct settlement  amount on agreement  A, 
the advance figure would have been £302.45  lower than it is, creating a higher amount  to be 
paid through agreement  B.
Instead of agreement B being adjusted Mr S paid the shortfall in cash. In summary,  it seems 
to me that the total of the:
part payment  of £1,000;
part exchange of £697.55; and
Mr S payment of £302.45,
is the same  as the £2,000  referred  to in agreement B.
Because of this I do not find that Mr S should  be refunded the additional  payment he made 
when he collected  vehicle B. I do find that he was caused distress and inconvenience by the 
issue. I also acknowledge the inconvenience he was cause by having to chase a payment 
and also by not receiving the service he should have when he asked  for the complaints 
procedure. Because  of this I find that compensation of £100 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN26268824My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited  
should pay Mr S £100 compensation for the issue  he experienced in setting up his HPA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2626882