K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains he has been unable to pay his life policy premiums to 
HSBC Life (UK) Limited (HSBC Life) by Direct  Debit from his Spanish Bank account. 
background
Mr W took out a value protection plan policy in March  2000 with Company A  paying a 
monthly premium of £11.15 per month by Direct Debit from a UK Bank  account.  
In 2011, Company A transferred all of its Life insurance business to HSBC Life. It wrote to 
Mr W on 15 July 2011, informing him of the planned transfer. 
Following this HSBC Life sent a letter  in October 2011 to Mr W, advising him the scheme  
had been approved by High Court and the transfer  came into effect on 1 October  2011.  The 
letter also explained no action was required and there will be no change  to the policy  terms 
and conditions or the manner in which the policy is administered. The only change will be 
where payments  are made  by Direct  Debit the reference would change from Company A 
Life to HSBC Life.   
Mr W moved to Spain  permanently in 2017.  He contacted  HSBC  Life on 7 September  2018 
with a request  to change the method by which he paid for his life policy  from his UK Bank  
account to his Spanish Bank account.   
HSBC Life explained  to Mr W, that it was unable to accept a Direct  Debit  payment from a 
Spanish Bank account. It offered  him a number  of alternatives payment options  but he didnt 
accept any of these.  He believed that HSBC Life should allow him to pay for his policy 
directly from his Spanish Bank account. He asked HSBC  Life to continue  to collect premiums 
from his UK Bank account until the matter  was resolved.  
On 8 October 2018 Mr W cancelled his Direct  Debit payment. 
HSBC Life wrote to Mr W on 17 October  2018 informing him its been unable  to collect  his 
monthly premium and in accordance with the terms of the policy if the premium  remains  
outstanding for a further month the policy will lapse and the cover will cease. 
On 15 November 2018, HSBC Life wrote to Mr W again, but this time to inform him the cover 
had now ended as no premium payments had been  received.  The letter  also explained what 
he needed to do if he would like to reinstate his policy. 
Unhappy with HSBC  Lifes  response Mr W brought his complaint to this service. 
Mr W would  like HSBC  Life to reinstate his policy and accept his payment by Direct Debit 
from his Spanish Bank account - if not possible,  then he would like a refund of all his 
premiums paid to date. 
Ref: DRN24316562Our investigator thought HSBC Life had acted  fairly.  He didnt think  it should refund the 
premiums paid. Mr W didnt agree and asked  for a final decision.
After reviewing Mr Ws complaint, I agreed with the point he raised about HSBC  Life sending  
letters to an incorrect address  I contacted HSBC Life, as I felt compensation was payable  
for this aspect of his complaint.  HSBC Life agreed  to pay a £200 compensation award for the 
trouble and upset.  I asked  the investigator  to share this with Mr W, explaining that I 
considered this to be a fair and reasonable offer and in-line  with what  this service would 
recommend in circumstances, such as these. Mr W was asked to consider the offer and let 
us know whether he accepted or rejected it and was given the opportunity to make  any 
further comments before I issue my final decision.   
As no contact was made Im providing  my final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration with being unable  to make his monthly  HSBC  Life policy 
premium payment by Direct Debit from his Spanish Bank account. But having considered  the 
circumstances, I find Im unable to conclude that HSBC Life has acted  unfairly in this regard. 
However I do acknowledge there  have been some service failings which  Ill address later. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W, so Id like to explain why.   
change in policy provider
Mr W has said HSBC  Life did not advise him it had taken over his policy with Company A. 
HSBC Life has provided this service with copies of the template letters  that its records  
indicate  and I accept  were sent to Company  As policy holders in 2011  to notify them  of 
the transfer of Company A to HSBC Life. The transfer was approved by the High Court  and 
came into effect on 1 October 2011;  at which  time the reference on Mr Ws bank statement 
changed from Company  A Life to HSBC  Life. Both these letters  were  sent to his registered  
address, which  at the time was his UK address. 
I think its unlikely, as most post is correctly delivered, that both letters  which were sent at 
different times and from different  locations  were not correctly delivered. I therefore consider 
that, on balance,  Mr W did receive at the least one, if not both pieces of correspondence  
sent to him. Notwithstanding, Mr W had access to his regular statements, which  showed  the 
Direct Debit payment  narrative as HSBC Life. So Im satisfied that Mr W was sufficiently 
aware, that the policy he held had a connection to HSBC Life. Further there were no 
changes to the terms and conditions of the policy or the way it was administered  - so I am 
not persuaded that Mr W has suffered  any detriment  in HSBC Life taking over the policy.
Ref: DRN24316563cancellation of Mr Ws policy
Mr W has said, he never received the correspondence HSBC claims to have sent regarding 
the cancellation of his policy.   
HSBC Life has accepted that it has made an error and Mr Ws request on 02 May 2018 of a 
change of address  was not correctly updated until 15 March  2019  which resulted in him 
not receiving letters  sent to him on;
17 October 2018, which informed Mr W that his Direct Debit  had been cancelled,  
explained that if premiums remain outstanding for a further month the policy would 
lapse and the cover would  end; and 
15 November 2018, which  confirmed the policy cover has ended  and explained what  
Mr W would  need  to do to reinstate the policy, if he chooses to do so. 
But in any event, even  if the letters had been  sent to the correct  postal address  Im not 
sure it can be said with any certainty  that Mr W wouldve  done  anything different. I say this 
because Mr W was also sent letters on 11 September  2018  and 30 October 2018 that were 
sent to his correct  postal  address  in Spain. I think its reasonably clear from these letters  
that if Mr W cancelled his Direct Debit without arranging an acceptable payment method and 
HSBC Life was unable  to collect the premiums  due, the policy would lapse in accordance 
with its terms  and conditions. Ive also listened to the conversation that took place between 
Mr W and HSBC Life on 13 September 2018, when it told him what he needed to do to make  
a payment. Mr W was given a number  of options to avoid the policy  being  cancelled - 
including continuation of Direct Debit payments from his UK Bank account, which he wanted  
until the matter was resolved.  
Mr W cancelled  his regular Direct Debit payment from his HSBC (UK) Bank account on 
8 October 2018 and did not make any alternative  payment arrangements.  
So, Im satisfied that HSBC Life was acting in accordance with the policy terms when it 
cancelled the policy  as it was ultimately  Mr Ws responsibility to ensure he kept up to date 
with his premiums. Mr W had cancelled his Direct Debit  himself, so he wouldve been aware 
that his monthly  payment wasnt being  made.  It wasnt reasonable in my view, for Mr W to 
expect that the plan would just continue without premiums being received  by HSBC Life. 
I do however agree  with Mr W, that hed received a poor service from HSBC  Life as it had 
sent correspondence to his UK postal address, after being  informed hed permanently 
moved to Spain and I think a £200 compensation award is fair and reasonable, for the 
trouble and upset  this has caused him  which HSBC Life has agreed  to pay. 
payment options  
As Direct Debit schemes  are available in a number of European countries, including Spain, I 
can see why Mr W feels its unfair  that he is unable to pay for his HSBC Life policy  by Direct 
Debit from his Spanish  Bank  account. However the Direct Debit  scheme operated in the UK 
is restricted to transactions  in the UK. So its not that HSBC Life is refusing to accept Mr Ws 
preferred method of payment, its actually that it physically is not able to collect  a payment by 
Direct Debit from a non UK Bank  account. 
Ref: DRN24316564When HSBC Life explained to Mr W its unable  to accept a payment by Direct Debit from a 
non UK Bank account, another method of payment suggested by him was a credit and/or 
debit card payment.  Unfortunately HSBC Lifes  systems arent set up to collect  payment from 
a debit card or a credit card, hence  the reason this isnt offered as payment option.  I can see 
how frustrating this must be for Mr W, but I cant agree that HSBC Life has treated him 
unfairly as the original  terms  of the policy say; 
Contributions are payable by .. 1. Direct Debit 2. Debit  to a Company A account  card 3. 
Any other method  of payment we may agree in writing to accept. 
HSBC Life has offered Mr W a number of other alternative payment options,  which  I note are 
still available to him. It has also said itll be willing to reinstate Mr Ws policy in the future 
(subject to some conditions),  if notified in writing within one year of the first outstanding 
premium  that being 14 October 2018. 
Mr W has asked  for HSBC Life to refund all his premiums paid, in the event they are unable 
to accept payment  from his Spanish Bank. The nature of such policy taken by Mr W is to 
insure against unforeseen death or illness, and thankfully no claim has been required but to 
be clear Mr Ws complaint  is not about the suitability of the policy   its concerning  the 
administration issues related to premium  payment  collection issues  encountered  when he 
asked for his Direct Debit payment  to be taken from his Spanish  Bank  account.  From  what I 
can see, until this point Mr W has had no concerns  with the method of payment and has had 
the benefit of the policy so it wouldnt be fair of me to ask HSBC  Life to refund all premiums 
paid.
Taking everything into consideration I think HSBC Life has acted fairly and reasonably, both 
when explaining to Mr W what payment methods it can and cant accept and in its decision 
to cancel the policy.
my final decision
For reasons Ive explained above,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require HSBC Life (UK) Limited  to pay Mr W a total of £200 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused by failing to send correspondence to his correct address. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2431656