K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2006. Mr S says First Response Finance Ltd (First Response) mis-sold him the PPI. The 
policy was taken out with a hire purchase agreement and the loan included an amount to 
pay for the PPI policy. The policy covered Mr S for accident and sickness.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen notes  of the conversation between  First Response and Mr S when the PPI 
was sold. In this call First Response made it clear the PPI was optional,  and as this 
conversation took place several days after Mr Ss application for finance had been 
approved, I havent seen  anything  that would have made Mr S think he needed to 
take the PPI in order to be approved for the finance. First Response also explained 
that there was a 14 day cooling off period, and that Mr S would be able to cancel the 
PPI within 30 days if he decided he didnt  want  it.
The credit agreement that Mr S signed also referred  to the PPI being optional. It was 
listed as Optional  Payment Protection  Insurance. On this agreement  a tick has been 
placed next to the option  for PPI and Mr S has also signed separately to agree  to 
take it out. 
So with all this in mind  I think  First Response  made  it clear  that Mr S had a choice  
about taking the PPI and that he chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that it was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
   Its possible the information First Response gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. 
But the cost of the policy was explained  in the statement of price that was sent to 
Mr S, and on the loan agreement  including the amount of the premium, the interest 
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mr S would  have understood 
how much  the PPI would  cost if he kept the policy for its full term. And given how 
long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr S made a successful claim he couldve 
got back quite  a bit more  than he paid for it. 
I think Mr S chose  to take the PPI out - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. It 
also seems like it would have been useful for him if he had been too ill to work or had 
lost his job. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr S off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN21434492Mr S wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if First Response thought about this when  it recommended  
the policy. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S thought  hed repay the loan 
early. So I dont  think this meant the policy wasnt right for him.
But First Response has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
First Response got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr S about that. Because First Response 
didnt tell Mr S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, First Response has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said, but for the reasons explained above his points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so First Response Finance Ltd does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But First Response Finance Ltd does have  to pay back  to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2143449