K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc wrongly closed his account, denied  him 
access to his money and recorded adverse entries with CIFAS and in his credit file. Hes 
been represented by his father.
background
In July 2017 a credit  of £3,000 was paid into Mr Us account with RBS. The following day, 
the bank received a request for a new a card and, a few days after that, a request for a new 
PIN. 
Over the next couple of weeks, nearly  all of the £3,000  was withdrawn at cash machines  and 
over the counter. Mr U said he wasnt responsible for the transactions and that he hadnt  
received the replacement card or PIN. The bank reviewed what had happened but declined 
to refund the withdrawals. They had, it said, been made using the genuine  card and PIN; 
theyd been sent to Mr Us home address and there  was no plausible  explanation as to how 
someone else could  have obtained  them without Mr Us permission.
A few weeks  later RBS wrote to Mr U to tell him that it would be closing his account  14 days  
later.  
Mr U complained to this service and one of our adjudicators  considered his complaint. He 
thought it more likely than not that Mr U had either carried out the transactions  himself  or 
authorised someone  else to do so. He didnt recommend that the bank refund the 
withdrawals or take any further action to resolve Mr Us complaint.  
Mr U didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.           
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Have  however reached  the same  overall  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
The banks records indicate that the genuine  card and PIN were used, together,  for all the 
disputed withdrawals, including  the counter withdrawal. I accept that was the case. It is of 
course consistent with Mr Us case that he didnt receive the replacement card or PIN but 
that someone else was able to intercept them. I must therefore consider whether thats likely 
to have happened. 
The card and PIN notification were  ordered at different  time and were  sent to Mr Us home  
address separately, and on different dates. Its apparent  though that they were both received 
by the same person, since they were  used together. Its possible of course that both the card 
and the PIN notification  were wrongly  delivered  or that both were  intercepted.  I think  
however thats  unlikely.  The most likely explanation  for both being used together is that they 
were both delivered to the same address; and the most likely delivery address is that of 
Mr U. 
In all the circumstances, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Mr U received the card 
and PIN notification and that he either  carried out the disputed  withdrawals himself or 
authorised someone  else to do so. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require the 
bank to refund them. 
Ref: DRN28136452Mr U has asked whether RBS obtained  CCTV coverage  of the withdrawals.  I agree  that it 
might be helpful  if available. But I also agree with the adjudicator that its unlikely to be 
conclusive. Even it showed someone  other than Mr U using his card and PIN, it wouldnt 
show whether Mr U had allowed that person to do so. 
The bank says is hasnt  recorded any information with CIFAS  the UKs  fraud  alert service. I 
believe however  that it would  have  been justified in doing so, and so I leave it to Mr U to take 
that matter up with CIFAS  and any similar credit  or other agencies if he wishes to do so. 
Mr U also said that RBS had blocked his account.  But the remaining balance was withdrawn 
before the account was closed, so it doesnt appear this was the case or was only 
temporary. And, whilst  RBS gave Mr U relatively short notice of closure, I dont believe that 
was unfair  in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to take any further 
steps to resolve  Mr Us complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr U to accept or reject  my decision before 24 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813645