K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of B that East West Insurance  Company Limited  (East  West)  has 
failed to properly  deal with a claim made under a warranty for a new build  property.
When I refer to East West, Im also referring to any of its appointed agents or 
representatives.
background
B is a company which  owns  the freehold  to a block of flats.  Mr H is a director of B and has 
represented it during  this complaint. Each flat owner in the block  had a structural  defect 
warranty which included cover for defects to the roof.
The warranties were  originally provided by another  insurance company. East West later took 
over responsibility for the warranties. For simplicity Ill refer to East West as the warranty  
provider throughout.
Mr H owns the leasehold to one of the flats. His is near the top of the block, partially 
underneath a roof terrace and partially  underneath  the top floor flat.
In November 2012 Mr H noticed water entering his flat and made  a claim to East West. The 
claim was accepted, and repairs  were  carried  out to the roof and inside  the flat. It was 
completed by March 2014.
In August  2015  Mr H reported water entering his flat again. East West carried out repairs  
inside Mr Hs flat. After  further water entry caused damage within the flat, East West  found  
the source of the leak to be a hopper  on the roof, which it repaired in 2017.
Despite that, water  continued  to enter  Mr Hs flat. He said East Wests investigations and 
repairs had failed to address all the defects that had been identified  or had been suspected 
when he originally reported the claim in 2012. He complained and asked East West to 
correct the external problem and then to carry out repairs  internally.
East West said the structural  defect  warranty had ended in December 2012,  shortly after the 
claim was made. Because water hadnt entered Mr Hs flat for over 16 months  after East 
West carried out repairs in March 2014, it considered  it had fixed  the defect  originally 
claimed for. 
In East Wests view the 2015 problem wasnt a result of the repairs  carried  out in 2012  and 
was a new defect.  Because  the defect  had been  found after the warranty ended, it didnt 
think it had been  obliged to carry out any repairs in 2015.
East West noted a problem with the balcony  upstand in 2017.  But it said this was also a new 
defect, reported  after the warranty had ended. So, it declined to cover the cost of fixing the 
problem with the balcony upstand. But it did agree to cover  the cost of internal repairs  for the 
water damage that had entered  in 2015,  up until it repaired  the hopper.
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service. He said the current problem with the balcony 
upstand should be covered by East West. He thought  this issue  was part of the original 
problem claimed  for in 2012 and the upstand should have been fixed  when repairs were first 
carried out in 2013 and 2014. In his view that meant  the work to the upstand hadnt been  
Ref: DRN29397502carried out at all  or had been carried out inadequately. He didnt think gaps between leaks  
were an indication that earlier repairs had been successful. He said leaks only occurred 
during particularly heavy rainfall.  To support his view,  Mr H provided two reports  by a 
surveyor, J, carried out in 2012 and 2013,  about the roof.
Mr H employed  a roofer to assess what work  needed doing to stop the leaks and begin work. 
In addition to the balcony  upstand, Mr H said two other causes of the leaks  had been  
discovered. In summary, he thinks both causes result from inadequate or defective  
workmanship by East West when carrying out repairs to the roof.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought the reports by J showed that the 
problem with the balcony upstand ought to have been dealt with as part of the original claim. 
For that reason,  she considered it fair that East West now deal with the balcony upstand 
under the warranty.  She noted  that Mr H thought  there had been defective workmanship by 
East West and thought it was fair that it was given the chance  to investigate these concerns.
Mr H accepted our investigators view.  He said hed paid to carry out some works  to improve  
the roof drainage, but the problem  hadnt  been fully resolved and the leak continued.
East West didnt accept  our investigators view.  It reiterated the points it made when 
responding to Mr Hs complaint. It also questioned whether the reports by J had ever been 
sent to its agents  previously. And it said there  was no evidence  that repairs carried out in 
2013 and 2014 were  the cause of the current problem. Despite that, East West has recently  
been in touch with Mr H to arrange an inspection, but nothing has been agreed yet.
As East West didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think East West has 
acted unfairly and should take action to put things right. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs complaint is essentially that the leak has continued. He puts the current  reason for 
the leak down  to broadly two things  the balcony upstand problem and the repairs  carried  
out by East West.  Ill consider  each separately.
Balcony upstand problem
The warranty ended in December  2012. So, if a new defect was found after that date, there 
would be no warranty in place to cover it and East West could reasonably  decline to deal 
with it. But East West should  deal with any defect that was found,  or ought to have  been  
found, before the end of the warranty.
East West hasnt disputed  that the balcony  upstand problem is a defect. After  the hopper  
was repaired in 2017, it was tested and found  to be working as it should.  The builders then 
tested other  areas of the roof to simulate heavy rainfall. They  found a leak into Mr Hs flat 
which they described as arising from a defect  in the balcony upstand.  East Wests surveyor 
at the time said repairs to the upstand should  be carried  out under the original claim. But 
when East West considered the matter,  it thought the problem was newly  discovered  and 
therefore it was too late to claim under  the warranty.
Ref: DRN29397503Ive looked at the reports to see when the balcony upstand problem was found, or ought  to 
have been found.
East Wests surveyor visited in January 2013.  It has provided the surveyors  report from that 
visit but its little more than a summary. It said the defect was defective waterproofing 
element to balcony and cladding. East West has told us no other reports are available from 
its surveyor. I dont think this is conclusive evidence  about the upstand  problem.
Mr H employed  a surveyor,  J, to look into the initial water problem in 2012. J inspected  the 
upstand, located below  the external sliding door of the top floor flat. J noted timber decay, 
mushroom and mould growth in the area and found there was inadequate damp proofing,  
causing a leak into Mr Hs flat. It recommended further investigation to assess the detail of 
the construction of the upstand. I understand removal  of parts  of the roof and doors were 
required in order to do this.
J visited the property  again in 2013 once work to the roof had begun and the construction  
details were more exposed. It found  the upstand  was too low and recommended  the 
specification for repairs  take into account  the construction of the upstand. It also 
recommended new damp  proofing in the same area. It said the problem was an inherent 
defect.
Both inspections and reports were carried out and written by a chartered surveyor. Theyre  
detailed and thorough and I find them persuasive. In my view they show  the balcony  upstand  
problem had been identified as a defect contributing to the leak at the outset of the claim and 
ought to have been included in the work East West carried  out.
During our investigation East West accepted that Js first report was provided  to East West 
when the claim was first made. It questioned whether Js second report  had been  sent to its 
surveyor and said it wasnt aware of it until our service provided a copy.
I think the first of Js reports alone was enough  to show there was a problem with the 
upstand that was leading  to a water  problem. East West accepts this report  was received. 
So, whether  or not it was aware  of the second of Js reports whilst carrying  out repairs,  I 
think it was already aware from the first report that it ought to deal with the upstand problem.
East West has been unable to provide a specification to show what work  was carried out. 
And it says it cant find any specific comments its surveyor made about either of Js reports. 
But it has said it believes all the issues raised  in the first of Js reports were addressed  
during the repairs.  It also says all the issued raised  in the second of Js reports  were 
addressed  to the extent that the defects were  causing a leak at the time.
I take this to mean East West  think they either dealt with the upstand  problem during the 
repairs  or didnt need to because they didnt think the upstand was contributing to the 
water problem.
We dont know what work  East West carried out because it doesnt  have  the specification  for 
the repairs. So, it might  have done  the work, or it might not. If it did, the problem remains so 
any attempted repair to the upstand was unsuccessful and should be put right. If it didnt, I 
dont think thats  reasonable either.  J specifically  commented that it noted signs  of water 
ingress around the upstand into Mr Hs flat and that this presented  a defect.
Ref: DRN29397504East West has said the gap between completing the initial  repairs in March 2014  and the 
return of the leak in August 2015 shows the original defect was fixed. I accept its point that 
the repairs appear to have been successful in stopping the leak for a period  of time. 
However, the problem  with the upstand doesnt  appear to have been causing a continuous 
leak. Mr H says its only noticeable during particularly heavy rainfall.  And the water testing 
following the hopper repair supports that as the roof decking had to be flooded in order  to 
find the source of the leak. So, I dont agree with East West that the period  without  a leak is 
evidence the defect was resolved during the repairs.
 
Overall, although its unclear exactly what happened, Im satisfied  its reasonable for 
East West to be responsible for dealing with the balcony upstand problem.
Repairs carried out by East West
Mr H has said that part of the reason for the continuing leaks  is defective  or inadequate work 
carried out by East West. Hes raised two points: the way support underneath  the roof 
terrace decking was laid and a problem with a gully outlet.
Ive not seen any reports or comments from a surveyor or builder to explain why its thought 
these problems have  been caused by the repairs East West carried  out. In the absence of 
any expert opinion  to support what Mr H has said, I dont think it would be fair at this stage to 
conclude East West had done anything wrong in relation to these points.
East West has offered to visit Mr H and inspect the problems  hes mentioned. I think  thats a 
reasonable approach to take.  Its fair for East West to have the opportunity  to consider  the 
problem and decide whether it agrees its repairs are the cause. If so, I would expect 
East West to deal with putting them right. If not, Mr H would be expected to accept that or 
take advice from a builder  or surveyor to try to show that the repairs are the cause.
Im aware Mr H has begun work  to the roof to resolve the leak problems. Thats 
understandable, given  the problem started in 2012  and hasnt been completely resolved 
since. In September  2018 Mr H gave East West notice  that he intended to begin the first 
phase of the work and invited it to inspect the damage. I understand East West chose not to 
arrange for an inspection of the damage  before  the work began.  East West believes their 
surveyor had advised Mr H they would visit during the second, more permanent, phase of 
work but cant find any evidence of that. I understand that second phase hasnt begun yet.
To help bring  this problem to a conclusion,  I think East West should  arrange  with Mr H to 
inspect the problems hes mentioned and assess whether its repairs  were adequate. If it 
needs to carry  out further investigations to do this, East West should carry those out.
Putting things right
East West will need to consider how to deal with the balcony upstand problem. It must carry 
out the work  itself or pay Mr H to do so. Mr H has completed the first phase  of the work. 
East West will need to take that into account when deciding  how to resolve the problem 
fairly.
I understand East West has already agreed  to settle  the cost of internal repairs to Mr Hs flat. 
Again, it must carry out the work  itself or pay Mr H to do so.
Ref: DRN29397505And East West will need to arrange an inspection of its repairs with Mr H. If it agrees some 
or all of the repair was inadequate, it will have to carry out the work  itself or pay Mr H to do 
so.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require East West Insurance Company Limited to:
Deal with the balcony upstand problem by carrying out repairs or paying Mr H the 
equivalent cost of doing so;
Deal with the internal  repairs  by carrying out repairs  or paying Mr H the equivalent 
cost of doing so;
Assess whether  its repairs to the support  underneath the roof terrace  decking  and 
the gully outlet  were adequate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2939750