K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS)  mis-sold her two Ultimate Reward 
Current Account (URCA) in September  2007  and May 2013. These were sold on two 
separate accounts that Miss S held.
Miss S says that she was led to believe that it was the only option  available  to her. Mrs L 
says she feels that BOS took advantage  of her.
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service BOS refunded the account  fees for the 
URCA that was sold to her in September 2007.  Given this we have not looked  into this sale
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think the remaining URCA 
had been mis-sold. Miss S disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into 
consideration when looking at this complaint.
Miss S says that she was forced into taking the URCA in May 2013  and did not think  she 
had a choice but to agree to take out this account. However I can see that she had held free 
accounts for a number  of years so I cant  see why she would think  that they were no longer 
and option for her. In addition Miss S has not said what she was told that made her believe 
that free accounts were no longer an option  for her. 
Therefore, based  on everything I have seen, Im not persuaded  that BOS acted in an 
unreasonable manner. On the contrary, I think Miss S was probably persuaded into agreeing  
to open an URCA knowing she did not have to but, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, she 
now believes  it to have  been the wrong  decision and poor value for money. But that in itself 
doesnt mean that the account  was mis-sold.
Neither party has said that the account was sold on an advised basis. This meant that BOS  
didnt have to check if the account  was appropriate for Miss Ss circumstances. But it did still 
have to give her enough  information about  the account and associated  benefits so that she 
could decide for herself whether to open it or not.
At the time the URCA was taken it out it came  with, amongst other  things, breakdown cover,  
travel insurance, home emergency cover, mobile phone insurance and preferential  terms on 
overdrafts. From what I can see Miss S did drive, travelled occasionally and had a mobile  
phone and therefore I think that she could  have used some of the benefits  if she wished to 
do so.
Miss S may not have  been told everything about all of the benefits  that the account came  
with, but I cant see anything specific that she was not told that I think  wouldve altered her 
decision to agree to the account.
Ref: DRN29039692Miss S may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think she shouldnt have taken out the URCA. 
And given  what she mightve  read about  packaged accounts in general, I can understand 
why she believes her URCA mightve been mis-sold.  But I think  Miss S freely  chose to take 
the URCA having a decent appreciation of what it included, and I dont think that BOS mis-
sold the account.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss Ss complaint about  the sale of her URCA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2903969