K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr D took out seven loans with Cashfloat  between April 2017 and January 2018.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Date repaid
1 12/4/2017 £200 28/4/2017
2 13/5/2017 £200 31/5/2017
3 11/7/2017 £350 31/8/2017
4 31/8/2017 £400 4/9/2017
5 13/9/2017 £400 10/11/2017
6 14/11/2017 £400 27/12/2017
7 17/1/2018 £600 outstanding
Mr D repaid some of the loans early but loan seven has a balance outstanding. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ds complaint should be upheld in part. In summary, 
he thought that it wasnt  unfair of Cashfloat  to agree loans one to four. But the adjudicator 
didnt think that it was reasonable of Cashfloat to agree loans  five to seven.
The adjudicator recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest and charges that Mr D paid 
on loans five to seven with interest on the refund. And she said it should remove  all entries 
about those loans from Mr Ds credit file.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators view and said that the loans were affordable  and 
removing the entries  on Mr Ds credit file would give a misleading picture to future lenders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN25285852the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
loans one to four
Before agreeing each of these loans, Cashfloat asked Mr D for details of his income, living  
costs and regular  credit commitments. 
Given the amount  of each loan in comparison to the figures Mr D gave for his income  and 
expenditure I think that Cashfloats checks were proportionate.  There  was nothing  of 
concern in the credit check that should have prompted further checks.
loans five to seven
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  this point was reached by loan 
five. I say this because:
Ref: DRN25285853loan five was Mr Ds fifth loan from Cashfloat in about six months. Although there  had 
been a gap of around  6 weeks between loans two and three,  Mr D had been applying for 
loans on a fairly consistent basis  with no significant gaps. 
The amounts  that Mr D was asking to borrow were increasing  and he wasnt  making  any 
significant inroads  into the debt. 
I think that the pattern of lending shouldve  alerted Cashfloat  to the likelihood  that Mr D 
was having problems managing his money. So I think it should  have  been  concerned  
that he wouldnt be able to repay  the loans sustainably.
I think that Mr D lost out because Cashfloat  continued to provide borrowing from loan five 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr D had been  borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Mr D in the market for these high-cost loans. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans  five to seven. If Cashfloat had undertaken 
proper checks these  loans wouldnt have been  given to Mr D. So I dont think  its fair that 
they should have a negative impact on his credit  file. I dont  agree  with Cashfloat that this 
would give a misleading picture to future  lenders.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on loans five to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan seven;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan seven 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr D; and
the number  of loans taken from loan five onwards means that any information about  
them is negative.  So all entries  about loans four to seven  should be removed from Mr Ds 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Cashfloat 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part and direct Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Ref: DRN25285854Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528585