K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him an Additions packaged bank 
account in 1999.
background
Mr C held the following  bank accounts  with Barclays:
March 1990 - fee free account
October  1999 - Additions account
January 2017 bank  account with Tech Pack and Travel  Pack
Mr C paid a monthly fee for the Additions  account  which provided several benefits in return. 
His account was migrated to a Barclays Bank Account with Tech  Pack and Travel Pack in 
January 2017,  as part of a change to the range of products Barclays  offered.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.
Mr C disagreed saying,  in summary,  that:
He didnt need  the car breakdown insurance which  was added by Barclays  after hed 
been sold the account.  He didnt own a personal vehicle, only a company van which  was 
covered by the companys insurance.
Barclays didnt tell him he needed to register  his mobile phone to be covered by the 
insurance.
There were benefits on the account which were of no use to him at all and it wasnt  in 
his best interests to pay for the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide Mr Cs complaint.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After careful consideration, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr C was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  account. 
Ref: DRN25861242Mr C took the Additions account by switching from a fee-free account following a meeting at 
one of the banks branches. Mr C says he must have been pressurised to take the account 
because he cant think why hed have agreed  to pay for it. He thinks he was told hed have  to 
have it to obtain an overdraft facility and that it would improve his credit score. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that he couldnt  have kept his fee-free account  if hed wanted to. In 
addition, fee-free accounts have always been, and continue  to be available in the UK. So 
I think its more likely that Mr C chose to upgrade his account, knowing he didnt have to. 
I think, in all likelihood, it was the fee free overdraft facility on the account which  appealed  to 
him.
Barclays says it recommended the account  to Mr C. So it had to make  sure it was right for 
him, based on his personal circumstances at the time.
When the account was sold Barclays charged customers with a fee-free account  a £5 
monthly usage fee for using an arranged  overdraft. The Additions account  cost £6 a month, 
and one of its benefits was a waiver on the overdraft usage fee. Mr C was using  his overdraft 
regularly in 1999, and continued to do so after he upgraded his account. Bearing in mind 
that, if he hadnt upgraded, hed have  paid £5 to use the overdraft, plus interest  on the full 
overdrawn balance, I can see why he mightve decided to upgrade.  For just £1 a month  
extra, he was able to continue using his overdraft,  whilst paying  interest  on a reduced 
amount of it.
Mr C also had access to the accounts other benefits which  included  cardholder protection, 
purchase protection, accidental death  cover, legal and tax helpline, a will writing service and 
extended warranty cover. Mr C might not have gone  on to use the other benefits, but I dont 
think hes lost out by upgrading for the reasons Ive just explained. I also cant see anything 
to suggest he couldnt have used  the accounts other benefits if hed wanted to.
Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mr C everything  it should  have about the Additions 
account. But for the reasons Ive explained, I havent seen enough to make  me think that 
Mr C wouldnt  still have taken the account,  even if Barclays had told him more  about it.
The breakdown cover and mobile phone insurance  were added as benefits to the account in 
2002 and 2006 respectively. As they werent offered when the account was sold, this doesnt  
make a difference to my conclusion that the account  wasnt mis-sold in 1999.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2586124