K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms H complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2000, Mr and Ms H took out a joint secured personal loan following a meeting at a Halifax 
branch. They also took out PPI for Mr H to protect the loan repayments.  They  paid a monthly  
premium for this insurance. 
In 2002, Mr and Ms H took out another loan together. They told us that this loan was taken 
to help pay for some home improvements and they also used some of the money  to clear 
their previous loan.  Mr and Ms H took out a new policy that provided PPI for Mr H  and they 
paid for this the policy on a monthly  basis also.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had mis-sold PPI with either loan and didn't uphold 
their complaint. Mr and Ms H disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr and Ms H mainly  say that the PPI wasnt needed, given their significant  sick pay through  
work. And they told us that if the costs versus  benefits and the optional nature of the PPI had 
been made clear, they wouldve declined the policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Ms Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Hs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
what happened in 2000
I think Halifax made Mr and Ms H aware that the PPI was optional and they chose to have it 
for Mr H. I say this because I find that the way information about the PPI was set out in the 
loan agreement Mr and Ms H signed presented the policy clearly as a matter of choice.  It 
says on the form: Do you want Personal Loan  Repayments Insurance? I think  its likely  that 
the Yes box was pre-printed with an X reflecting what Mr H had put on the form he 
wouldve filled in to apply  for this loan.  If Mr and Ms H hadnt wanted PPI they couldve 
marked the No box on their loan agreement.  
PPI was clearly shown on Mr and Ms Hs loan agreement  including the amount of the 
monthly premium. Mr and Ms H have both signed  this agreement to indicate they agree with 
what it says on the form. Based on everything Ive seen, I cant fairly say that Halifax failed to 
make Mr and Ms H aware  that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted  PPI for 
Mr H  or that they didnt agree to sign up for optional  PPI with their loan. This all happened 
a long time ago, so its easy to understand why Mr and Ms H mightve forgotten some  of 
these details now.
Ref: DRN23849662Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Ms H. So it had to check it was suitable for 
their needs.  PPI wouldve covered the monthly  loan repayments and paid out for up to 
60 months if Mr H was unable to work as a result  of accident or sickness.  This is longer than 
Mr H was entitled to sick pay from his employer  and it meant  that the policy  could've 
potentially paid out until this loan was cleared  if hed been off work sick for the rest of the 
original loan term. 
And the PPI wouldve  also covered Mr H for up to 12 months  per claim if he lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. Repeat claims were possible under the policy. 
Being entitled to redundancy  pay wouldnt have helped  them  if Mr H was off work  sick. And 
I dont know if they wouldve been  able to rely just on Ms Hs earnings for very long as 
everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And as the loan was taken out when 
they were both working, I think its likely  that losing Mr Hs salary wouldve had a significant  
impact on their joint finances. So, I think the policy  couldve been  useful  to them.
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Ms H about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover and the policy seems to have been  affordable. The loan agreement  sets out what  the 
policy would cost them each month  as well as showing the monthly  loan repayment and the 
total monthly payment theyd have to make. So I think Mr and Ms H wouldve been aware 
how much  theyd be paying for the insurance.  
Overall I think  it unlikely  that Mr and Ms H wouldve made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  as the policy offered them worthwhile benefits in their 
particular situation.
Its possible that Halifax didnt explain all the policy features quite as well as it couldve  done. 
But, looked  at overall, I find the policy was suitable  for them and it offered useful protection.  
I dont think if Mr and Ms H had been given more or better information this wouldve put them 
off buying the policy.  
what happened in 2002
As with their first loan, this loan was taken out in joint names  along  with a PPI policy  that just 
covered Mr H. 
The application Mr and Ms H had to fill in to get their loan asked if they wanted  PPI or not. 
Mr H has signed in the box to say he wanted  PPI. There was a NO option he could've 
signed instead if the PPI wasnt something  they wanted to take out with the loan. This has 
been left blank on the form. Mr and Ms H both signed the completed loan application. 
And the way information about  the PPI was set out in Mr and Ms Hs loan agreement  
presented the policy clearly as a matter of choice with Yes and No options  as before. 
The Yes  box was pre-printed with an X as Mr and Ms H had already discussed this with 
the advisor during the course of making the loan application and this reflected their wishes  
when theyd had to say if they wanted  PPI or not. If Mr and Ms H had changed their minds 
before signing  for the loan, and decided  they didnt after all want  PPI, they couldve filled in 
the No box on the loan agreement. This has been left blank  on their agreement  - which 
Mr and Ms H both signed at the end, indicating their agreement  with the information shown 
on the form.
Ref: DRN23849663I cant uphold this complaint just based on what Mr and Ms H say about the sale. I must 
decide what I think is most likely. Based on everything Ive seen, I cant  fairly say that Halifax 
failed to make Mr and Ms H aware  that PPI was an optional feature or that Mr H didnt 
choose to take it out with the loan. I think Halifax made Mr and Ms H aware that it was up to 
them to say if they wanted PPI for Mr H  and they chose to take it out with their loan.  
Halifax says it recommended the policy  to Mr and Ms H and it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen their Mr and Ms Hs situation at the time.  
As far as I can see their circumstances were broadly the same as theyd been in 2000.  The 
new policy gave Mr and Ms H the same benefits  and they continued to be able to take 
advantage of all the benefits  under the policy. As with the first loan, PPI wouldve covered 
the monthly loan repayments for up to 12 months if Mr H lost his job  and it wouldve paid 
out for 60 months  if hed been  unable  to work as a result of accident or sickness. So this 
gave Mr and Ms H better cover  than if theyd just been relying  on Mr Hs work  benefits. 
Despite what Mr and Ms H feel, I think PPI couldve been useful in their particular 
circumstances. 
The loan agreement  sets out what the policy would cost them each  month, as well as 
showing the monthly loan repayment,  and the total monthly payment theyd have to make.  
So I think Mr and Ms H wouldve been  aware  theyd be paying for the insurance and how 
much this would  cost each month  even if theyve  forgotten this now. The policy  seems to 
have been affordable. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Ms H about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
those applied in Mr Hs case. So, I dont think having  more  information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected their decision to have PPI.
Taking all their circumstances into account, even  if there were  failings in the way Halifax sold 
them this PPI, I dont  think that better information  wouldve  put Mr and Ms H off having it. 
So I dont  find they are worse off as a result of anything  that Halifax  did wrong. And theres  
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384966