K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is about  a low cost endowment policy they were  sold in 1995 by 
TenetConnect Services Limited. They have said that they were sold the policy as a savings 
plan and that it has been explained to them by their complaint management company (CMC)  
that it was mis-sold.
The CMC said that the plan was mis-sold  because:
it was sold for a need that didnt exist and the policy has never been linked to a 
mortgage;
there was no rationale for the term of the plan;
Mr and Mrs P had limited investment experience, yet the plan invested in very high risk 
funds.
To resolve  the complaint,  Mr and Mrs P would like a refund of the premiums paid to the 
policy plus interest.
background
Mr and Mrs Ps policy started in January 1995.  It had a term of 21 years  and a sum assured 
of £100,000. Critical illness cover was added to the policy and so it would pay out the sum 
assured on the first of death or diagnosis with a critical illness. The policy was invested 
equally in the American Income, Far Eastern, High Income, International and Special  
Situations funds.  The policy is named Flexible Mortgage Plan.
The application form detailed  that Mr P was 40 and Mrs P was 35. They were partners in a 
general store. It was detailed that the policy was not being arranged to support a mortgage.
As there was no other documentation from the time of the sale detailing  Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances, we asked  Mr and Mrs P to provide us with their recollections. They told us 
that they had four dependents and whilst they couldnt remember how much they earned, 
they struggled financially. They had no savings, investments, policies or pensions. The only 
liabilities they had were  a bank loan and a business  overdraft. 
When asked about the reasons for the sale and how it came  about, they said that the 
salesman approached them and all the details of the policy  were decided  by the salesman. 
They just accepted the recommendation.
TenetConnect provided a copy of a document from 1996  which  detailed Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances at the time. The document is difficult to read due to how it has been stored, 
but some  information  is available.  They were  seeking advice in relation to investment. It is 
recorded that Mr and Mrs P were  shopkeepers with a joint income of £56,000 per year. They  
had a net income of £3,300 per month and regular outgoings of £1,860;  so they had £1,440 
disposable income. 
It was also recorded  that Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage on their home  which they had taken 
in 1990. It was arranged on an endowment basis. They had multiple policies and single 
company shares  in both their names. These  arrangements were  detailed on a separate 
sheet that is unfortunately no longer available. Their total assets  were  £285,000 and they 
were recorded as having an attitude toward  risk between balanced and adventurous. An 
investment product was recommended at that time.
Ref: DRN21370882TenetConnect didnt  consider the merits of the complaint as it was of the opinion the 
complaint had been made too late. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept that position and referred the complaint  to this service.  I 
considered the matter  of our jurisdiction and I concluded the complaint was one we could 
consider. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. He didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs P didnt  accept his conclusions. The CMC said that it was 
not acceptable to use information  from two years after the sale of the policy in question. It 
didnt consider it relevant to Mr and Mrs Ps position in 1994  and what  their objectives  were 
at the time. It also referenced the regulators guidance as to the sale of endowment policies 
for future mortgage  purposes and that such sales are considered mis-sales. 
The CMC said there  were numerous issues with the sale to Mr and Mrs P including the risk 
factors, the fact that the plan included life cover  and its term. It said that there was simply no 
need for the product and the fact that there is no sales  documentation to justify  it only serves  
to raise further questions  about the sale. It asked  for an ombudsmans  decision if the 
investigator was unable to change his conclusions and uphold  the complaint.
Our investigator responded to the concerns the CMC raised. He confirmed that given the 
time that had passed it was not unreasonable for TenetConnect not to be able to provide the 
point of sale documentation. He also confirmed that it was not inappropriate for him to use 
information from 1996, given it provided  some detail about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances in 
1994, for example the fact that they had a mortgage  and it was supported  by an endowment 
policy. Having considered the CMCs  comments,  the investigator was not minded  to change 
his conclusions and so the complaint has been  referred to me for a decision.
The CMC responded  and explained that it was a financial  business responsibility to be able 
to demonstrate that it had complied with the requirement to know its client and also to make 
sure the advice provided was suitable. As the plan was not supposed to mature until 2016, it 
expressed surprise that records relating to the advice had not been kept.  It reiterated that in 
its view there was absolutely no evidence to support the sale of the plan and that was not its 
clients fault.
It was put forward that Mr and Mrs P were shopkeepers and needed the financial adviser to 
look after them  and not recommend a product  that would earn the financial adviser the most  
commission. It put forward that a PEP would have  been a better option as it was low in 
charges and tax efficient.  The CMC  provided comment  on the role of this service and how it 
considered we should view the complaint.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly respond to the CMCs comments about the lack of evidence  available  from the 
time of the sale and the consideration of evidence  from less than two years after the sale.  
Businesses are not required  to keep records for long periods of time and data protection 
regulation often recommends that such records are not kept, so I cant  find a financial 
business at fault for a lack of records from over 25 years earlier.  
Ref: DRN21370883When there is little contemporaneous  information  available, we will consider what  evidence 
can be provided. In this case that evidence comes in the format of the recollections of 
Mr and Mrs P, which because of the passage of time may understandably  not be entirely 
accurate, and a record from a short  time after the sale about their circumstances, which 
includes some  information that would have  been  the same  at the time of the sale.  By this I 
mean the mortgage information from a date earlier  than the sale. 
As for the CMCs comments about  the use of the policy,  an endowment is, in simple terms, 
an investment product  that includes protection benefits. Whilst the policy  in question was 
titled endowment mortgage  plan, because  it was expected to be sold predominantly for 
mortgage purposes, its title didnt make it unsuitable for other purposes.  So I cant  uphold  
the complaint  simply because the policy had mortgage in its name and Mr and Mrs P didnt 
intend to use it for that purpose. 
The CMC has also recently commented  that the forward sale of endowment policies for 
future mortgages is generally considered  unsuitable.  I would  agree  that is the case. 
However, neither  the CMC or Mr and Mrs P have,  when  asked about the sale and the 
reasons for it, suggested it was ever to be used for a future mortgage. As such, it would not 
appear the comments about  forward  sales  are relevant to this complaint. 
The only things we know for certain  about the time of the sale of the policy  are that 
Mr and Mrs P were  shopkeepers  with four dependents and a mortgage  that had been 
arranged several  years earlier on an endowment basis. This means the mortgage was 
interest-only and there  was an endowment  in place to act as the repayment  vehicle. 
So initially,  whilst Mr and Mrs P have said they had no investment experience or policies, it 
would appear  theyd held another endowment policy for several  years. Given that by the 
autumn of 1996  a separate sheet was required to document all of Mr and Mrs Ps policies, 
investments and shares, it would seem likely there were a significant  number of them. I say 
this as there was space,  albeit limited space, in the fact find for policies and investments to 
be documented, but an additional sheet was needed.  
Whilst it is entirely plausible some of the policies and investments were  taken out in the year 
and months after the endowment policy being  considered here, that is a relatively  short 
period for a significant number to be arranged. Furthermore, we know that at least  one of 
them was in place  before the sale of the endowment I have been asked to consider. As 
such, it would seem unlikely Mr and Mrs P were inexperienced investors  at the time the 1994  
advice was given.
The other notable  piece of information from the 1996 fact find is the attitude toward 
investment risk. The scale used was cautious,  balanced and adventurous. As Mr and Mrs P 
were looking  for investment advice, it is reasonable to say by 1996 they were willing  to 
accept a significant amount of risk associated  with their investments. That doesnt  
automatically mean that they were  willing  to accept the same  level of risk with their 
investment in 1994. However, peoples attitude toward risk doesnt tend to change  
significantly in a short period of time. Generally, if it changes, it will develop  with knowledge 
and experience. 
I also note that either before or within a relatively  short time after taking out this endowment, 
they invested in single  company shares, which would be considered to represent a 
significant level of risk. So the evidence  would indicate that the risks associated  with the 
Ref: DRN21370884policy sold in 1994 werent inappropriate.   Also, given they had four dependants, benefits 
that would  protect  them  in the event of death  or diagnosis with a critical illness  wouldnt be 
unsuitable.
In order to uphold  a complaint I must  be persuaded the financial  business made a mistake 
and recommended an unsuitable product or mis-led a consumer.  It must  be more  likely that 
there has been such an error, not just as likely.  In this case, I am not persuaded that the 
evidence shows the policy sold at the end of 1994  was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P, so I am 
unable to uphold  their complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject  my decision 
before 27 March 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137088