K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied a default to his current  account 
despite dealing  with a third party debt advice service. 
Background
Mr A had a current account with Barclays that had an overdraft. Mr A experienced financial 
difficulties and got in touch with a third party debt advice service.  
On 8 May 2018  Barclays sent Mr A important letters about his overdraft and said it intended  
to apply a default. 
On 10 May 2018 the debt service contacted Barclays  on Mr As behalf and explained he 
wasnt able to maintain  his account  and offered around £5 per month  as a payment 
arrangement. 
Barclays accepted  the payments of £5 a month  but continued to default the account. Mr A 
says he didnt receive Barclays letter advising it intended to close  his account and default it. 
Mr A later complained and said other  creditors had agreed  to set up a payment arrangement 
in place of defaulting his accounts. But Barclays didnt agree it had made a mistake and said 
the default was applied  in line with its procedures. 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service and it was looked  at by an investigator.  The 
investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint and he asked to appeal  so his complaint has 
been passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A appears to have  first discussed  the financial difficulties he was experiencing with 
Barclays in April 2018 and said he was in touch with the third party debt advice service. 
Barclays waited for around a month  before taking the step of issuing its default notice to 
Mr A and wrote to him on 8 May 2018. At that stage,  the debt advice service  hadnt 
contacted Barclays.  
A letter was sent on 10 May 2018  setting  out the payments Mr A could  afford to make  of £5 
per month. Barclays agreed to accept the payments  from Mr A but didnt stop the default 
action it was taking.  Mr A has told us that other  creditors  were  willing  to suspend further 
recoveries action when  it received his payment arrangement offers,  but Barclays didnt. 
I understand that other businesses may have taken a different approach to Barclays.  But I 
cant say Barclays has made a mistake because  its taken  the decision to operate  differently. 
In this case, Barclays has told us that the decision to default  Mr As account  is in line with its 
collections process and Im satisfied its free to decide  how to treat customers experiencing 
financial difficulties. I acknowledge that other  businesses may operate  differently but that 
doesnt mean Barclays decision to default Mr As account was wrong.  
Ref: DRN26878622Mr A says he didnt receive  the termination  letters dated 8 May 2018 so wasnt  aware of 
Barclays decision. Ive looked at a copy of the letter and can see its correctly  addressed,  in 
line with the details we hold for Mr A. Im satisfied the letter was correctly  addressed  and 
sent in line with what Barclays has said. 
I also need to consider  what  Mr A would have done  differently if hed received the 
8 May 2018  letter.  Mr A had told Barclays he was experiencing financial difficulties. He then 
contacted the third party debt service and went through  his financial situation to reach an 
affordable repayment  offer to his creditors. In this case, Mr A was able to afford  around £5 a 
month towards his overdraft debt. But that level of repayment wasnt enough to stop his 
account being defaulted. Ultimately, as Mr A was only able to make payments of around £5 
per month it wasnt enough  to stop his account being closed and a default  applied. I dont 
think this situation  would  have been different  if Barclays letter  dated  8 May 2018 had been  
received by Mr A. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I havent found any evidence that Barclays decision to 
default his account was unfair or unreasonable. I note that Mr A says he didnt receive 
Barclays 8 May 2018 letter but Im satisfied that its decision to proceed  with the default was 
reasonable. For the reasons Ive given above,  Im not telling Barclays  to take any further 
action in this case. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2687862