K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Instant Cash Loans Limited (trading as Payday UK) gave him loans that 
he couldnt afford to repay. He asks that it refunds interest and charges and removes 
information about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr B took out seven  loans with Payday UK between August 2008 and June 2011. He says 
the loans were unaffordable.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Payday UK 
should have made more  checks before offering the loans.  But Mr B hadnt provided a copy  
of his bank statements.  Without this, the adjudicator couldnt assess what Payday UK would 
have seen if it had made  further checks. Payday UK had allowed Mr B to defer repayments 
for loans  2, 3 and 7. This suggests Mr B had difficulty repaying the loans. But Payday UK 
hadnt applied  any additional interest  so Mr B hadnt suffered any detriment as a result  of the 
deferred payments.
Mr B didnt agree. He said he couldnt  provide bank statements  from the time the loans were 
taken out. He did provide a copy of his credit report.  And he said he had complaints with us 
about other short term lenders which gave him loans at the time he was borrowing from 
Payday UK. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Theres limited  information available here.  This isnt surprising given the time that has 
passed since Mr B took out the loans.  I understand the difficulty Mr B has had in trying  to get 
copies of bank  statements  for 2008  to 2011.  
From the information provided by Payday UK, it seems it asked about Mr Bs monthly 
income and relied  on statistical  data to assess his expenditure. It recorded  monthly  income 
of £1,900 and outgoings of about  £260.  
I think, given the amount of some  of the loans and Mr Bs pattern of borrowing, Payday UK 
should have carried  out further checks. It should have asked Mr B about his expenditure 
when he applied for loans 1 and 2. These required  repayments of about £440 and £590.  
Loan 3 required  a repayment  of £750. And Mr B had had difficulty  repaying loan 2. I think, 
before offering loan 3 and the later loans, Payday  UK should have asked for information to 
gain a full understanding  of Mr Bs financial circumstances.  
Mr B cant  provide copies  of his bank statements for 2008 to 2011. His credit report provides 
only limited information  about his financial circumstances when he took out the loans. But I 
can see that he had a mortgage with contractual monthly payments of £748. Mr B says his 
share of this was about £400.  I can also see a loan requiring monthly repayments of £260.  
These accounts were  opened before Mr B took out the loans with Payday  UK. So, using 
Ref: DRN22958182Payday UKs assessment  of Mr Bs general  expenditure, Mr Bs usual  monthly outgoings 
would have been about £920. 
Mr B has complaints with us about  loans from other short term lenders. Ive looked at the 
information we have to see what short term loans Mr B had outstanding when he borrowed 
from Payday UK. He had short term loans outstanding when he took out loan 6 in May 2011, 
but these wouldnt  have made  the repayment  for loan 6 unaffordable. Mr B took out a loan of 
about £375 with another  short term lender on the same  day that he took out loan 7. I dont 
think he had enough  disposable income to repay  this loan and loan 7 (which required a 
repayment of £750).  But I dont know whether he took this loan out before or after loan 7. 
Even if it was taken out just before loan 7, Payday UK wouldnt have known  about  it from a 
credit search or Mr Bs bank statements and I cant be sure Mr B would have told Payday UK 
about it if it had asked him.
Mr B says the loans  from Payday UK werent affordable.  Unfortunately, I dont have enough  
evidence about  his expenditure at that time to make a fair assessment about what Payday 
UK would have seen  if it had carried  out proportionate checks before lending to Mr B. 
Based on available evidence, I cant fairly find that Payday  UK would have  known the loans 
were unaffordable if it had made  proportionate  checks. It follows that I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295818