K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr and Mrs P took out PPI around the same time as taking  out a mortgage. The PPI 
was sold over the phone. The policy was set up in Mr Ps sole name  and it protected  Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage payments in the event  Mr P couldnt work because  of accident, sickness 
or unemployment.
It provided a monthly  benefit of their mortgage  payment plus 25% and it would pay out for up 
to 24 months per claim.  It cost around  £9 a month.
At the time Mr P was employed and he says he was entitled to sick pay  albeit theres  some  
discrepancy about the amount of sick pay he had at the time, which  Ill address below. Mr 
and Mrs P said they had savings of more than three months pay and Mr P was in good 
health at the time.
The mortgage account ended in 2003.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
was likely BoS made Mr and Mrs P aware the PPI was optional.  And there  was nothing to 
indicate it was wrong  or inappropriate for them.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did BoS give Mr and Mrs P a choice about PPI?
Mr and Mrs P used  a third-party   a broker - to help them arrange their mortgage. They 
signed their mortgage  application in March 2001.  And it appears  that about  a month later,  Mr 
and Mrs P took out PPI following a phone call with BoS  according to BoS the phone call 
might have taken place on a phone in-branch.
BoS hasnt got a call recording  and this isnt surprising given how long ago things 
happened. Its also not provided us with a call script. So I dont know  what Mr and Mrs P 
were told or how the PPI was introduced to them.
Ref: DRN27532952But based  on what Ive seen  the fact that the mortgage application didnt say or imply  PPI 
was compulsory; the PPI section  of the mortgage  application was left blank; the phone sale 
appears to have taken  place  after Mr and Mrs P signed their mortgage application (and 
perhaps after the mortgage was agreed  by BoS);  and the fact that things happened nearly 
20 years  ago, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P chose to take out PPI and they did so knowing 
the didnt have to have  it. Ive not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that something 
different happened.
did BoS advise Mr and Mrs P?
BoS say this was an advised sale. Mr and Mrs P say they cant remember  if they were  
advised or not. Because BoS own testimony  is that it advised Mr and Mrs P  and I consider 
theyre in a good position to know how sales like Mr and Mrs Ps were  carried  out  I think  
its likely  BoS advised and recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
This means  BoS had to ensure PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. And it had to give them  
enough clear and timely information about  the recommended cover, so they could make an 
informed decision about it.
the advice
As I referred  to above, without a call recording or a call script I dont know how PPI was 
introduced and precisely what  was discussed  with Mr and Mrs P. But BoS has provided a 
copy of the PPI application, which records that some questions were  asked  about  Mr Ps 
employment and health. The adviser  also had some other information about  of Mr and Mrs 
Ps circumstances  - including their income  and other  debts - from their mortgage application.
So it appears that BoS took some steps to ensure the PPI was suitable.
But the evidence  doesnt tell me that BoS took all reasonable steps, including  asking Mr and 
Mrs P about  their sick pay entitlement or other means such as similar insurances they could  
use to help them meet  their mortgage  payments if things went wrong. So I accept its 
possible there were gaps in the advice given.
But based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances, I think the recommended PPI 
was ultimately suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr P was eligible  for the cover.
he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover   for example 
existing medical condition exclusions or those  for unusual  employment 
circumstances.
Mr P has given  different information  about his sick pay  he indicated it was less than 
three months in total but also said it was six months  full pay followed by six months  
half pay. But in any event, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay 
entitlement and for longer  up to 24 months per claim. So I think  it wouldve been 
useful to Mr and Mrs P and couldve proved beneficial to them if Mr P found himself 
unable to work.
I can see Mr and Mrs P said they also had savings of more  than three months pay. 
But Im mindful that their mortgage  application records they were  borrowing money 
for the purpose  of home improvements  and to repay some  credit card debts. 
Ref: DRN27532953The application also only records savings of £100.  So Im not persuaded the 
evidence from the time supports what Mr and Mrs P say they had. Notwithstanding 
this, I still think  they had a need for cover. The PPI was protecting their mortgage 
payments and ultimately their home and I dont think they had significant other 
means such that the PPI was unnecessary or inappropriate for them.
At less then £10 a month the PPI appears  to have been affordable.
the information
I accept its possible Mr and Mrs P didnt get all of the information they needed about the PPI 
in a clear and timely manner as theyve said in their complaint. But the limited evidence  
indicates that some kind of discussion  took place. And I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs P 
wouldve gone ahead without knowing something about the policy  including  what  it was 
going to cover them for and at what cost.
So in light of my finding  above that the recommended policy was ultimately suitable for Mr 
and Mrs P, I find it unlikely theyd have acted  differently and declined the policy  had BoS 
done anything  more. I think the policy was sufficiently close  to what they thought they were 
getting and I think  it couldve  proved  useful  to them in the event the insured risks came  to 
fruition. And all at a cost,  which in my view was not significant.
conclusion
So while I accept some things mightve gone wrong with the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs P, for 
the reasons Ive set out above I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out. I say this because I 
think, more likely than not theyd have  still taken out PPI had BoS done  anything more.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2753295