K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T have  complained about  Admiral Insurance Company  Limiteds  handling of a 
claim on their motor  insurance policy.
Mr T is a named driver on Mrs Ts policy. So, for ease of reading,  I'll refer to Mr Ts actions 
and comments as being on behalf of both himself and Mrs T.
background
Mr Ts car was parked and unattended in a carpark. When he returned to it he noticed it had 
suffered some damage.  The car next to it also had damage and some  paint  transfer. Mr T 
thought that the other car had caused the damage to his car. He took some photos  and left a 
note for the driver of the other car to contact  him. The other car's driver sent Mr T a text to 
say that he had no knowledge of any incident.
Admiral arranged for Mr and Mrs Ts car to be repaired and notified the other drivers insurer, 
which Ill refer to as L, that it was holding its driver at fault for the damage to Mrs Ts car. L 
eventually responded to say that its driver hadn't caused any damage. Admiral followed this 
up but after receiving  some further  evidence from L said it felt it couldn't  prove the other 
driver was to blame  for the damage  to Mr and Mrs Ts car. That meant  Mr and Mrs T couldn't  
recover their excess and the claim affected their insurance history.
Mr and Mrs T brought their complaint  to us. Our adjudicator didnt think  Admiral had dealt 
with them  fairly. She said it should  continue to pursue  the claim against L. And that it should 
pay Mr and Mrs T £75 compensation  to address  their distress and inconvenience.  
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2020. For ease Ive copied  my provisional findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
or exactly what parties have been involved,  as ultimately thats a matter for the courts.  And, 
like all motor policies, Mrs Ts policy allows Admiral to settle claims  as it sees  fit. That means 
it doesnt require  Mr or Mrs Ts consent  to decide  how to settle a claim and it may make  a 
decision that they dont agree with. But Ill look to see if its done so reasonably. And having 
considered the evidence  I don't  think it has.
When Mr T reported  the incident he told Admiral his car was parked and unattended  when it 
was damaged. And he hadn't spoken with the other driver in person. I think that, in those 
circumstances, where  theres  an allegation  against an individual who isn't there at the time 
the initial allegation is made,  there was always likely to be scope for the other driver to 
dispute liability. In those circumstances I think it would have been important for Admiral to 
gather all the available evidence it could  as soon as possible. And that should have included  
things like considering  whether  or not CCTV was available  that may have caught  the 
accident on camera or the times  when the cars arrived  and parked. But I havent  seen any 
evidence Admiral considered that possibility at the outset or if it did why it chose not to 
pursue it. I think that was an oversight.
Ref: DRN20557792Also there appears to have been a delay between Mr T reporting the incident and Admiral 
putting Mr Ts allegations to L. I understand that both Admiral and L use a shared portal  for 
such communications. And Admiral says it followed the appropriate process for bringing 
Mr Ts allegations  to Ls attention. That might be the case but I note that Admiral didn't 
update details on the portal until over six weeks had passed since  the incident.  And it was a 
further seven  weeks  before  it received  any response from L. In other  words,  it was over 
three months from the incident  before Admiral knew that L would be disputing its drivers 
involvement. But in that time I haven't seen any evidence that Admiral had done  anything to 
try to establish liability. It might well have been  following the agreed  protocols for using the 
portal but if, as here, that results in an unfair situation for its policyholder  then I think  it should 
consider other methods  of evidence gathering.
For example, where a third party driver denies  having had any involvement in an incident  at 
all, I would expect  an insurer like Admiral  to have an engineer assess both cars.  Thats  to 
see if theres damage to the cars thats  consistent  with one car causing that damage to the 
other. So thats what I would have expected Admiral  to do in this case. But by the time 
Admiral had put its allegations to L Mr Ts car had already been repaired.  So the option for 
doing that with a great deal of accuracy  was lost. However, Admiral could have still asked for 
an engineer to inspect the other  drivers car and could have compared the damage on that 
car with the images of the damage  to Mr Ts car to see if they were consistent. But I haven't 
seen any evidence that it did so or considered doing  so.
I accept its possible that if Admiral had sent out an engineer  to assess the other drivers car 
the engineers  findings  might have shown  that the other car hadn't  caused the damage to 
Mr Ts car. But because it didn't send an engineer its unlikely well ever know whether that 
was the case  or not. So I think Admirals failure  to inspect the other  drivers car has 
significantly prejudiced  Mr Ts position  to the point that he can't now prove that the other 
drivers car caused the damage to his car. And without that proof  he has no real prospect of 
having the claim decided in his favour. I don't think thats fair.
Also, it seems Admiral  decided not to pursue  the matter any further after L provided a 
parking ticket which showed that the other driver had parked three hours before Mr T 
parked there. And as the parking duration  on the ticket ended  at 11.59pm  Admiral believed 
this meant  the other car was parked there  the entire  day. But the evidence  L provided isnt a 
parking ticket but a booking receipt.  And that shows that the other driver paid for a full days  
parking that would allow them to come and go from the carpark  as they pleased.  So the fact 
that the other driver  initially bought the ticket in the morning  isnt evidence that they left their 
car stationary all day. And as the driver could come and go from the carpark  during the day 
they could have parked before Mr T arrived but - having left and come back - parked the car 
again later in the day and damaged Mr Ts car in the process. But it doesn't  appear that 
Admiral considered that at the time. 
I understand that Admiral believes it didn't have sufficient evidence to pursue a successful 
action against  L. And its pointed out that the photos Mr T provided  don't show the position of 
the two cars relative to each  other  when they were parked. I agree thats the case  but 
Admiral could have  asked Mr T for a sketch  showing  this if it thought that evidence  was 
important. But in any case I agree with Admiral  that given its lack of investigation and the 
absence of evidence  now its unlikely that it would  be successful if it pursued a case  
against L. 
I think that situation might have been different had Admiral taken the action Ive referred to 
above in terms  of securing any CCTV footage and asking for engineering evidence  to 
Ref: DRN20557793compare the damage  to the cars. But because Admiral didn't  do those things I think  its 
prospects of success in pursuing the claim against  L are now very slim. In other words I think 
its prejudiced Mr Ts position.  And I don't think thats  fair.
Its simply not possible to now know what the outcome  would have been  if Admiral had taken 
more robust  action to investigate and pursue the liability claim against Ls driver. But its 
certainly possible that doing so would have resulted in L accepting liability  on its drivers 
behalf. Had that happened then Mr and Mrs Ts no claims discount (NCD) wouldnt have 
been impacted  and their driving  history  wouldnt have  had a fault claim going against it. Also, 
its likely  that Mr and Mrs T would  have recovered their excess. And I think  its unfair that 
Admirals actions have  denied them those opportunities. So to put things  right I think  that 
Admiral should take the actions set out below [those actions are repeated under the my 
final decision section below]. Also Im aware that Admirals handling of the claim has been 
a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs T, so I think  Admiral should  pay them 
£200 compensation to address that.
developments
Admiral didn't accept  my provisional  decision.  In summary it said it dealt with the matter 
appropriately through its portal process  and isn't responsible for the time L took to reply.  It 
added that the other driver would have been under no obligation to allow  it to send an 
engineer to assess their car. Admiral said it believes if it had asked for that to happen the 
other driver would have  refused.
Admiral said that the parking booking receipt  had a specific start time,  which  would have 
been the time the other  driver  arrived at the carpark. And as the carpark  is at a train station it 
was reasonable  to assume that the other driver was taking a train journey but unsure of their 
return time. It said Mr T had provided  a photo,  at the time he parked, showing the bay next to 
him was empty but that he hadnt  provided  a photo which showed the other  car next to his. It 
said a sketch  would not hold any weight as it would only show  whatever Mr T chose to draw, 
rather than being  a factual image . Admiral told us it hadn't  asked for CCTV images as Mr T 
hadn't told it there were CCTV cameras at the carpark. So it had no reason to believe CCTV 
might have been available.
Admiral said that it didn't  believe  it had prejudiced Mr Ts position. It said it was for Mr T to 
prove his allegation. But as there was no witness evidence, CCTV, or images of the other 
drivers car parked next to Mr Ts car, it didn't have enough evidence to pursue the liability  
aspect. As such it didn't  think my provisional awards to put things right were  fair. But it 
acknowledged delays and communication issues  and said it would pay £200  
compensation.
Mr T told us that he had given Admiral  a sketch describing the incident and locations of the 
cars. He also said hed paid his excess by credit card and had incurred interest on that sum 
as a result. 
Prior to issuing this decision we contacted  Admiral  to clarify that if I did uphold the complaint 
I would expect it to add simple interest to its excess refund.
Ref: DRN20557794my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to change 
my provisional decision. 
Admiral has maintained it followed the correct portal  process for dealing  with claims and isn't 
responsible for any delays  by L. But as I said in my provisional decision I think  Admiral  
delayed in contacting L. And Ls response was also delayed. During that delayed period the 
ability to gather certain evidence was lost. And I dont think that was fair for Mr T. So, as I 
said in my provisional decision, if using the portal results in an unfair  situation  for Admirals 
policyholder then I think it should  consider other methods of evidence  gathering that are fair.
Admiral added that the other driver was under no obligation to allow it to arrange for their car 
to be inspected. I agree that's the case. But as I'm sure Admiral  is aware  it could have put 
that request  through L. And Ls policy would require its policyholder to assist it and reply  to  
reasonable information requests when  dealing with a claim.  At that point Mr T was claiming 
from Ls policy. An inspection of the car could go some way to proving whether or not Ls 
policyholders car had been involved in the accident.  So I find it extremely unlikely that L or 
its policyholder would have refused that request.  But in not making any effort to request that 
inspection, evidence was lost.  
Admiral noted the parking booking had a specific start time. It said thats likely to be the time 
the other driver arrived at the carpark. I agree  thats  the case. But that simply isn't proof that 
the car didn't move all day. Even  if its driver did make a train journey they could have 
returned, used  their car and then decided to park again, as could Mr T. But the evidence 
shows Admiral  didn't consider that when  it was looking into the claim.  Instead, once it had 
seen the parking ticket it accepted  this as evidence the other driver couldn't have  caused  
the damage to Mr Ts car because it was already  parked when Mr T arrived. But I dont think  
the evidence is as clear-cut as that. So, I don't think  it was appropriate  for Admiral to decide  
that it couldn't pursue  the matter any further  at that point.
Admiral also said it didn't request CCTV footage because  Mr T didn't let it know that such 
footage might be available. Admiral  has expertise  in dealing  with such claims, but Mr T 
doesn't. So I would expect Admiral  to ask the appropriate questions  at the time Mr T 
reported the incident to allow  it to gather any evidence  required in support of the claim. I 
don't think  it's fair for Admiral to expect  Mr T to realise he should be directing Admirals 
investigation into the circumstances of the claim. And to realise that Admiral wouldn't think 
about CCTV footage itself.  So I don't think its fair that Mr T lost the opportunity  to get CCTV  
footage because Admiral didn't ask him if such footage might exist.  
Also Admirals pointed out that Mr T didn't provide a photo of the other drivers car parked 
next to his. And I agree that evidence would carry greater weight than a sketch. But that 
doesn't mean Mr Ts evidence  or the sketch hes told us he provided - doesn't carry any 
weight at all. And hes also provided  evidence showing damage to the other car with paint 
transfer that would appear, from a lay perspective, to be consistent with the damage to his 
own car. Further Admiral said that it didn't prejudice Mr Ts position because of a lack of hard 
evidence. But as I said in my provisional  decision I think Admirals contributed to that lack of 
available evidence. It didn't consider, pursue or ask about CCTV footage and didn't seek  to 
inspect the other car to see if the damage  to it was consistent with the damage  to Mr Ts car. 
And either of those  sources of evidence (CCTV and an engineers consistency report)  could  
have provided  vital evidence that the other car was or wasnt  involved in the incident.  But 
Ref: DRN20557795because Admiral didn't  gather that evidence, Mr T can't now know  what the outcome would 
have been if it had. 
It follows I remain satisfied that Admiral did prejudice Mr Ts position. So I think  it should  take 
the action Ive detailed below to put things right. That includes adding  simple interest, at a 
rate of 8% a year, to the refund of Mr T's excess from the date he paid it to the date it 
refunds him, which I think is adequate to address his loss of use of that money.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Mark the accident as non-fault/NCD allowed against Mr and Mrs Ts driving/insurance 
history on all internal and external databases.
Adjust Mr and Mrs Ts NCD  to reflect the non-fault status  of the claim.
If Mr and Mrs T have  since  renewed  their policy with Admiral it should recalculate  any 
renewal premium to reflect the claim as non-fault and with NCD adjusted accordingly.  
If Mrs T is due a refund, Admiral  should  add simple interest  to that sum at a rate of 
8% a year from the date Mrs T paid the premium until the date Admiral  refund her.
If Mr and Mrs T have  taken out motor insurance policies with other providers since 
then, Admiral should give them a letter to confirm  that its marked  the claim as non-
fault and adjusted the NCD accordingly so they can give that letter  to their insurer(s) 
to see if a refund of premium is due.
Reimburse Mr and Mrs Ts excess.  It should add simple interest to that sum, at a rate 
of 8% a year, from the date Mr T paid his excess to the date it refunds him
Pay Mr and Mrs T £200 compensation  to address their distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs  T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2055779