K821x#15complaint
Ms N complains that Nationwide Building Society treated her unfairly by closing her 
accounts. She would  like to be compensated for this and for the interest she has lost. 
background
Nationwide wrote to Ms N in September 2014, giving her 60 days  notice of its intention to 
close her savings accounts, in line with the relevant terms and conditions. The accounts 
were closed in November 2014. Nationwide  say that its relationship with Ms N was 
irretrievable and it was no longer able to provide her with the level of service  she expected. 
Ms N has a number of concerns about  Nationwides  actions.  For example, she says it 
admitted making  mistakes with her accounts. She says the closure of her accounts  caused 
her difficulties accessing normal bank facilities and a loss of earned  interest.  Ms N told us 
she suffered from a chronic  illness at the time which made it difficult to obtain cash  from her 
accounts. This is because  she is unable to use a standard debit card as a result  of her 
condition.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide  was wrong  to close Ms Ns account and that it 
should pay her £250  compensation in addition to lost interest resulting from her accounts 
being closed.
Nationwide disagreed and so the case came to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision of 26 March  2019, I said:
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  
their account  with a bank.  However, once a bank has made  a decision to close an 
account, it must do so in a way which complied with the terms and conditions of the 
account. 
I have looked  at the terms and conditions of Ms Ns accounts which say Nationwide 
can close the accounts immediately under certain  circumstances. It could  also close  
an account by giving  Ms N 30 days written  notice or for certain accounts, 60 days 
notice.
Nationwide closed all of Ms Ns accounts with 60 days  notice. I can see it wrote  to 
Ms N on 10 September  2014 to let her know. So I think Nationwide met its 
obligations in accordance  with its terms and conditions. And for most of her accounts 
it gave her more notice than it needed to. 
Ive seen Ms N made 18 separate  complaints  to Nationwide between 2012 and 2014. 
Nationwide says she made unreasonable requests for compensation and when she 
thought incorrect  information had been  given, took a confrontational approach in her 
telephone calls to the bank. 
Call recordings are no longer available. But, having  viewed the written responses  to 
these complaints, I can see that some of them were upheld and compensation 
Ref: DRN28978872awarded. So Nationwide accepted Ms N had a genuine cause for complaint on some  
occasions.     
Nationwide has taken  a commercial decision to close Ms Ns accounts.  Whilst I 
recognise Ms Ns circumstances, especially at the time the decision was made, 
Nationwide has the right to decide  who it does business with. The nature and number 
of complaints indicate that the relationship  between  Ms N and Nationwide  had broken 
down. So I dont think it did anything wrong  by deciding to close  her accounts.  
This service doesnt usually tell banks which customers it must offer accounts to, or 
what terms it must attach to those accounts. I cant see anything in this case to make 
me think that we should do that here. 
Nationwide didnt apply  any interest  penalties when the accounts  were closed early, 
so Ms N hasnt suffered  any financial loss. She says she hasnt been able to find a 
similar or better rate anywhere else. But as Nationwide  were  entitled to close her 
accounts, and did so correctly, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to expect them  to pay 
additional interest after the accounts closed.
I know my decision will come as a disappointment  to Ms N. But having looked  at 
whats happened here I dont think Nationwide treated  Ms N unreasonably. So Im 
not going to ask it to do anything further.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Nationwide didnt provide any further  comments.
Ms N says she didnt make complaints and compensation claims to Nationwide and it hasnt  
been able to provide call recordings to evidence that she did. She also says its unfair for the 
business to get the benefit  of the doubt  on the balance of probabilities,  when it hasnt proven 
a justifiable reason for closing her accounts.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Ms Ns response to it.
As I outlined  in my provisional decision,  I have  seen historical documentation from 
Nationwide regarding both the multiple complaints  submitted  by Ms N and the responses 
she was sent. Our investigator also provided Ms N with confirmation of this relevant 
documentation.  
Given the length of time that has passed  since making the complaints, I dont  think its 
unreasonable that Nationwide  no longer  holds  the relevant call recordings. Indeed, under 
general data protection principles, a data controller shouldnt retain personal data longer 
than necessary. 
When resolving disputes of fact in civil cases,  a judge or ombudsman  must weigh-up all the 
available evidence and make findings  on the balance of probabilities, i.e. what they regard  
as more likely than not. Its a relatively  low burden of proof for the parties to discharge  so if 
Ref: DRN28978873something seems at least 51% likely,  the decision-maker will conclude that it probably 
happened as alleged. 
In the absence of any call recordings, I used  the available documentation to help me reach  
my decision.  This tended to indicate  that Nationwides arguments were plausible,  so I was 
ultimately persuaded that, on balance, Ms N had probably acted in a way which a 
reasonable service-provider could not reasonably  be expected  to tolerate or adjust for.
It remains my opinion  that the relationship  between  Ms N and Nationwide  had in fact 
irretrievably broken  down,  so it was reasonable for Nationwide to have taken the action it did 
in giving Ms N 60 days  notice and closing her accounts  in line with the terms and 
conditions of the contract to which both parties  had agreed. 
I note Ms N has mentioned Nationwide  making adjustments for her health condition  in 
branch at the time.  But she says these  adjustments were not made at the head office. 
Legally, service providers are required to make adjustments for consumers with disabilities.  
But, crucially, those  adjustments only have to be reasonable. A disabled consumer doesnt 
have an unfettered right to access non-essential services from a private enterprise. These 
were savings accounts rather than a basic  current account thats  essential  for daily living. In 
my view, there  comes  a point when a service provider is entitled to exercise  its legitimate 
commercial judgment by refusing to do business with a consumer whos  not dealing  fairly  or 
reasonably with it and/or its staff.  
Theres no persuasive evidence that any reasonable adjustments  would have stopped the 
breakdown of Ms Ns relationship with Nationwide.  I say this in light of the unreasonably high 
number of complaints  Ms N made,  which irretrievably undermined the mutual  trust and 
confidence necessary  for two parties to maintain an effective commercial relationship. 
For these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional  findings,  Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. In my opinion Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably,  and closed Ms Ns 
non-essential savings accounts in line with its terms and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.  
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2897887