K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  decision to record a claim against his
car insurance policy as a fault claim.
background
Mr C bought a car insurance policy with UKI. On 8 October 2016 Mr C sold his car to a
bodyshop. It was damaged  and had no MOT. He didnt tell UKI about the sale.  He said it
was a mistake and hed intended to buy a replacement car to insure with UKI.
Three days later the car was involved in an incident and UKI received a claim from a third
party insurer  (TPI).  It tried to speak to Mr C on a number of occasions and wrote to him too.
He didnt reply. So in January 2017 UKI settled the claim  as a fault claim on a without
prejudice basis.
Mr C contacted UKI in October 2018 through  his broker. He provided  a copy of the V5C to
show hed transferred the registration of the car to the bodyshop on 8 October  2016. Mr C
complained about UKIs decision to settle the claim.
Our investigator thought UKI had acted reasonably in reaching its decision to settle  the
claim. This was its obligation under the terms of the Road Traffic Act as the last insurer of
the car. UKI had tried to contact Mr C, but he hadnt  replied. He didnt tell it when he sold the
car which he should have done.
However, the investigator thought that UKI - when it received the V5C in November 2018  -
should have looked to recover  the costs of the claim from the bodyshop. But he said that if
UKI were unsuccessful, the claim should correctly remain recorded as a fault claim.
Mr C accepted the investigators findings.
UKI didnt  agree. It said it checked the Motor Insurers Database (MID) at the time and saw it
was the only insurer for the car. It was for Mr C to have told UKI when he sold the car in line
with policy, but he didnt. The incident was three  years ago and there was no insurer  to look
to recover costs from.
UKI said it dealt with the claim  on a without prejudice basis in line with the policy. Mr C failed
to contact it despite its requests. UKI doesnt agree that it should do any more as it acted
correctly.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 December 2019. I thought  UKI had acted reasonably. 
So I didnt intend  to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
UKI accepted my provisional decision. Mr C hasnt  replied. So the case  has been passed  
back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new information  
to consider, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN22466272We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  We can look at whether an insurer
properly investigated  a claim and reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Cs policy  says that UKI can settle  defend  or settle a claim as it sees fit. It also says that
Mr C must tell it when hes sold his car. Under  the terms of the Road Traffic Act 1988,  UKI
as the last insurer, is liable for any claim regardless of whether or not the driver is named on
the policy or not.
UKI tried to contact Mr C by telephone  and letter between October  2016  and January 2017
but didnt receive  a reply. Mr C says he didnt receive any communication from UKI. But I
cant hold UKI responsible  for that. And it checked with the MID and found it was the last
insurer, so it was obliged  to deal with the claim. This meant there was no insurer for the
bodyshop named  on the V5C for UKI to look to recover  its claim costs from. Theoretically
UKI could  look to recover the claims costs from the bodyshop. But Mr C sent UKI the V5C
form over two years after the incident  took place.  I think UKI properly investigated the claim
at the time.
I understand Mr C is disappointed that he has a fault claim recorded against him. But UKI as
his insurer was entitled to make  a decision to settle the claim on the best terms possible in
line with the policy and the Road  Traffic Act, rather than continue  to investigate with
escalating costs and an unlikely chance  of recovery. So even though  Mr C doesnt agree, I
dont think UKI has acted unreasonably. As Mr C didnt provide UKI promptly  with the
information it needed to look to defend the claim,  I think it reached  its decision reasonably.
So I dont  think it needs to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2246627