K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that the car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with FCE Bank Plc 
(trading as Ford Credit  Europe) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the car 
and cancel the agreement.
background 
In November 2017 Mr B acquired a new car via a 3 year hire purchase  agreement with FCE. 
Just under three weeks later the car developed a fault with its parking sensor  and Mr B 
arranged to take the car back to the dealership for repairs.
When Mr B took the car for the repairs he says he was unhappy at the customer  service 
provided by the dealership, so he told them that he now wanted to reject  the car. He left the 
car at the dealership who were able to carry out the repair within a short  space of time. The 
dealership contacted FCE at the end of December 2017 to advise Mr B had left the keys and 
had said he was rejecting the car.
Mr B later spoke with the dealership manager and agreed to take the car back and he 
collected it at the beginning  of January  2018. However, as Mr B had earlier  decided  to reject 
the car, hed cancelled  the direct debit  payment  for it. This led to a payment being missed  
under the agreement.
In January 2018 FCE responded  to Mr Bs complaint that had been sent in by the dealership. 
It said that although it accepted the car had had a fault it didnt agree that Mr B entitled to 
reject the car. FCE said the dealership had informed it that the car had been  fully repaired 
and collected  by Mr B. FCE said it had tried to contact Mr B but had not been  able to do so 
and had therefore assumed there  was no further  issue with the car. It said it would close his 
complaint.
Mr B says he spoke with FCE over the telephone in late January 2018 to reinstate the direct 
debit and asked  about the payments under  his account. He says he was told his payments 
were all up to date.  FCE says that there was no call between it and Mr B at the end of 
January. It says there  was a call at the start of that month but at that time it appeared that 
the direct  debit had been paid as the bank didnt tell it until a week  later the direct debit had 
been cancelled.
FCE also says that in January 2018  it tried to contact Mr B about the missing payment, 
making three  phone  calls and leaving a voicemail message. FCE recorded a late payment 
notice on Mr Bs credit file for this account  as it said hed made no contact.
In June 2018 Mr B complained again to FCE. He said that due to the late payment marker 
on his credit file he had been  declined  for other credit agreements. Mr B said FCE hadnt 
advised him that his account was in arrears and that during the phone  call in late January 
2018 it had confirmed his account  was all up to date. He said he had permission to miss the 
payment as the car had been at the dealership. Mr B also complained  that he had 
experienced other issues with the car. Mr B said he wanted to reject the car and have the 
agreement cancelled and unwound.
FCE didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said there  hadnt been a call between  it and Mr B at 
the end of January 2018. FCE said that every time an account was accessed by an agent  it 
left a footprint and the only time the account had been accessed had been at the start of 
Ref: DRN26342602January when the direct debit details had been updated. If the agent  had said the account 
was up to date this would have been  because it had looked as though it was as the bank  
hadnt yet advised it that the direct  debit had been  cancelled.
FCE also said it didnt accept Mr B had been told he could miss any payments under the 
agreement. FCE said it was Mr Bs responsibility  to ensure the payments were made under 
the agreement.
FCE said it had noted the car was booked in for an issue with the DAB radio signal cutting 
out later that month.
Mr B was unhappy at FCEs  response. He complained to this service.  He said he wanted the 
late payment marker removed from his credit file and to be able to reject the car due to the 
issues hed experienced with it. Mr B said the car had faulty paintwork, a faulty parcel shelf,  
had required  a repair to the drivers seat that had collapsed and a faulty entertainment 
system.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Bs complaint. He recommended that Mr Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld and that FCE should pay Mr B £250 compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  caused by the repairs that had been carried out on the car. However  our 
adjudicator didnt think it was reasonable for Mr B to reject the car. 
Our adjudicator also said that FCE had an obligation to record accurate information about 
the payments  under  an agreement. There had been  a missing payment and it had been  Mr 
Bs responsibility to make  the payments. He said FCE hadnt made an error in recording a 
late payment and he wasnt going to ask it to remove it.
Our adjudicator said that the warranty provider  had confirmed there was a paintwork  defect  
on the car. There had been an offer to respray that Mr B hadnt accepted.  He said he would 
suggest Mr B now contacted the warranty provider to discuss  if the offer was still open and if 
it wasnt for FCE to arrange  for the panel  to be resprayed.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said hed made the call at the end of January 
2018 but wasnt able to now provide proof of that as he wasnt  sure which  phone  hed used 
and his provider  didnt keep records going back  that far. He also said he thought the 
compensation was inadequate.
Our adjudicator said that he hadnt changed  his view. He said that the contact notes  
prepared by FCE didnt  suggest that there  had been  a conversation  about  the agreement  
being up to date in January 2018.  He said as there was no evidence to support Mr Bs claim 
that he had been misled  by FCE about  his account and that he thought it was more likely  
than not that this hadnt been said by FCE. 
Our adjudicator said he thought the suggestion of £250 compensation was fair and that the 
cost of the respray for the defective paint should  either be met by the warranty  provider or if 
not that company then by FCE.
Mr B disagreed. He said there was no evidence FCE had tried to contact him about the 
missing payment and it was its responsibility to do so. 
He said the £250 compensation didnt reflect the loss of value to the car caused by its 
service history and the defective paintwork. He said he believed the car was effectively  a 
Ref: DRN26342603factory second. Mr B said that recently  he tried to return the car and was given a valuation 
of £12,000 which he felt reflected the manufacturing faults.
Mr B also said he hadnt used the car as much  as had wanted  to. Hed driven  it for 16,000 
miles in the year hed had it though  the agreement was for 20,000  miles per year which  
demonstrated that he hadnt  used  it as planned  as hed lost confidence with it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen its agreed that the car acquired  by Mr B under the hire purchase agreement had 
needed a repair with the first 30 days. Mr B says he wasnt allowed to reject  the car though  
he had asked to do so.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is a legal right to ask for a refund if the goods 
are found  to be faulty within  the first 30 days.  However, here Mr B first agreed for the car to 
be repaired  and took it to the garage  for that to happen. Mr B says it was due to the 
customer service  he received when booking the car in for the repair that led to him deciding  
reject the car. Mr B also says that after speaking with the manager some time later he 
agreed to give the car a second  chance and took it back once it was fixed. 
So Ive seen  that by the time FCE had investigated  Mr Bs complaint the car had been 
repaired and returned to Mr B. In these circumstances I think  it was fair and reasonable for 
FCE to decline Mr Bs rejection of the car.
Mr B says the direct debit  was cancelled as he was rejecting the car. Im unclear how long 
Mr B was without the car as Mr B and FCE say different  things. Im satisfied looking at the 
nature of the fault that it wasnt a long or complicated repair  and would have been completed  
at the longest  within  a day. Its likely that some  of the time Mr B was without the car was 
because hed chosen not to collect it. I think its unlikely  FCE would  have agreed  to waiver a 
payment under the agreement so I dont think Mr B was told that.
Mr B says that he was misled about  the status of his account with FCE as it had told him the 
payments were all up to date near the end of January 2018. However, looking at the 
evidence I dont think Mr Bs recall of events  is accurate. Mr B agrees he cancelled the direct 
debit and that this was then reinstated during a call to FCE. Mr B says it was during the 
phone call to reinstate the direct debit that he asked about the payments on his account.
FCE says the direct  debit  was reinstated at the start of January 2018 in a phone call and that 
this was before the bank had advised  it the direct  debit  payment had been cancelled 
meaning that FCE would  have  been unaware of any missed payment.  It also explains that 
each time an account is looked at this leaves  a footprint and that the account wasnt 
accessed at the end of January 2018 other than when the response to his complaint was 
sent out. So I think its more likely than not that Mr B only spoke with FCE at the start of 
January 2018  and not at the end of the month.
FCE has provided copies  of its contact notes  with Mr B. These notes  make  no mention of 
any advice about  the status of the account  being provided to Mr B during the phone call in 
early January. I think its unlikely FCE told Mr B his account was up to date but even if Im 
Ref: DRN26342604wrong about that I think that FCE wasnt in a position to know that a payment  had been  
cancelled and so didnt mislead  him.
FCE says it tried to make  contact with Mr B by phone to raise the missing payment. This 
included leaving a voicemail message. It doesnt appear to have written  to him. Mr B says he 
didnt hear from FCE.
I dont know why the calls didnt show up on Mr Bs phone, and there could be a number of 
reasons why he missed  the calls. But its Mr Bs responsibility to ensure payments  are made 
and I think it would have  been reasonable for him to check payments had been made on 
time particularly as he had cancelled and then reinstated  a direct debit in a short  space of 
time. I think double-checking a payment had been made  would have been  straightforward.  
Ive seen that Mr B had said to FCE that hed been  told he didnt need  to make the missing 
payment so it may be hed misunderstood something but FCE are very clear  no such offer 
was made.  
So, l'm satisfied that FCE hasnt recorded  any inaccurate information on Mr Bs credit file 
about the missing  payment. I also dont think FCE has acted unfairly  in marking  the late 
payment on his credit file. The payment  wasnt made as it should have been and it tried to 
raise this with Mr B but couldnt make  contact. Mr B is responsible for making  the payments 
as directed under the agreement. Im not asking FCE to amend the information its recorded.
Mr B has also raised his concerns about  the quality of the car. Ive seen  that the car has had 
the following  visits and repairs undertaken:
December 2017 - repair to the parking sensors
June 2018  - software reset
August 2018  - upgrade  to front seat cushion
November 2018  parcel  shelf  re-strung
January 2019   repair to pin grip for the parking sensor.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be supplied thats of satisfactory quality. 
And satisfactory quality  is what a reasonable person would expect taking into account  all the 
relevant circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. Durability is also part 
of satisfactory quality as although  no one would expect all the components  of the car to last 
forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise with the car for a period of time.  
Where a car is found not to have been  of a satisfactory quality then the retailer  should be 
given an opportunity to repair. Here  Ive seen that the faults were all relatively minor and 
were fixed  at no cost to Mr B save  for the issue with the paintwork. 
Mr B says the car is akin to a factory second and has lost value.  He says the quote he was 
given recently shows  how far it has depreciated due to its faults.  But I disagree. Mr B was 
offered but didnt  take up the offer of the re-spray.  I cant reasonably say that this wouldnt be 
an effective repair for the fault and that its value will be lower  than it should be as a result. 
Looking at the valuation Mr B says he was given for the car and comparing it with the values 
provided in the industry guides  I think £12,000  appears to be around the amount that the car 
would be expected to fetch. Cars  depreciate more quickly in the first few years. So I dont 
accept the quality of the car has impacted on its value.
However the cars paintwork  still requires repair. Ive seen  this was agreed to be carried  out 
under the warranty  but that the warranty has now come to an end. Mr B should now contact 
Ref: DRN26342605the warranty provider  to ascertain if that repair is still available. If it isnt then it would be fair 
for FCE to cover the cost of a respray as defective paintwork isnt something  a car of that 
age and mileage  would  be expected to need.
However, I do appreciate  Mr B has been  inconvenienced and distressed about the number 
of repairs the car has had to have. It would have  been frustrating to have the parking 
sensors not working correctly, a parcel  shelf that collapsed, a drivers seat that needed 
repair and paintwork that needed re-spraying. I note the issue  with the radio that Mr B 
complained about but FCE says that no fault was found though  the software was updated.
Mr B says he hasnt driven  the car as much as he wanted but the issues  with the car arent 
ones that would have interfered  with how often he could use it. So I think Mr B has chosen 
not to drive it which isnt something I can reasonably say FCE is responsible for. I think £250  
compensation is fair to reflect the impact  these issues  have  had on Mr B, including  the need 
for a re-spray.
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mr Bs complaint. Im asking FCE Bank  Plc to do the 
following:
Pay Mr B £250 compensation for the inconvenience and distress caused by the car 
needing the number of repairs it has.
Cover the cost of the re-spray if the warranty provider is no longer prepared to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634260