K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited wrongly charged interest on his 
account. 
background
In March 2018, Mr H bought  some goods with Shop  Direct  using the buy now pay later 
(BNPL) option. A £8.99 delivery charge was applied to Mr Hs account,  which  wasnt 
included as part of the BNPL arrangement and payments became due from April 2018.  
Mr Hs statements were made available to him online and email notifications were  sent to 
him once  the statements were ready  to view.  When payments werent received in April 2018 
and May 2018,  Shop  Direct sent Mr H a paper statement  to his home address. Mr H then 
made payments towards his account in June and July 2018.   
Mr Hs BNPL arrangement lasted until 14 September 2018. When he didnt clear  the balance  
by this date, interest  was applied to the item he purchased.  On 18 September  2018, Mr H 
called Shop Direct in order to make a payment. He found out that interest and charges were 
added to his account because he didnt  make a payment by 14 September.  Mr H said he 
was working offshore and was unable to access post or emails so he asked for interest and 
charges applied to his account to be refunded. He also said he thought he had a direct  debit  
in place. 
Shop Direct said they wouldnt refund any interest or charges as they were  applied correctly 
and in accordance  with the terms of his account. They also didnt find any record  that he set 
up a direct debit with them. 
One of our investigators  said that Mr Hs agreement stated interest would  be applied to the 
account every 28 days. And he wouldnt need  to pay interest on the item if he cleared the 
balance before a specific  date. She said there wasnt  evidence of a direct debit being set up. 
So, she didnt think Shop Direct should refund interest or charges. 
Mr H asked for his complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman,  in addition to stating his direct 
debit was not set up, Mr H said:
He was unable  to pay the balance  whilst  working away  offshore in the middle  of the 
sea.
He didnt have  access to his mail during this time and didnt have telephone access 
to call numbers other  than family members.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be telling Shop 
Direct to do anything differently and Ill explain why.
Mr F has explained  he didnt realise interest  and charges would  be applied to his account. 
So I needed  to consider  whether Shop Direct made  this clear  to Mr H.
Ive seen the web page Mr H would have  seen when making his BNPL arrangement. It 
explains how BNPL works,  and says Delivery and Installation costs  and all financial services 
Ref: DRN28822602products are not included in Buy Now Pay Later  and will be included  in your next monthly 
minimum payment amount. I think its clear from this that a delivery charge doesnt form part 
of the BNPL arrangement.
Ive also seen the statements that Shop Direct made  available  for Mr H, which shows  the 
£8.99 delivery charge as being  due. While Ive taken on board  that Mr H was working away, 
I think Shop  Direct have  done what they needed to do to make  him aware  this particular 
payment was due at the start.
Payments were made to Mr Hs account in June and July 2018 and Ive seen statements 
were sent by post to his home address during  these  months. The statements say You can 
avoid the interest  on these buy now pay later item(s) by paying the balance by 14 Sep 2018. 
Im satisfied Shop Direct made it clear when Mr Hs BNPL arrangement would end. 
I appreciate Mr H contacted them in September  to make a payment towards his account.  But 
this was after the date a payment was required  to avoid paying interest under his BNPL 
arrangement. 
I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling on this matter  and I recognise it would have been 
difficult for him to access correspondence. But I dont see that he made Shop Direct aware 
of his working patterns prior to making his complaint. So I dont think they could have known 
that he was having any difficulties accessing  information. 
A direct debit arrangement may have been  more  suitable for Mr Hs needs but I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest Mr H arranged for one to be set up. Shop Direct did what they 
would normally do when  the required payments werent met and BNPL arrangements come 
to an end. So, I cant fairly say they should  refund interest and charges that were correctly  
applied to Mr Hs account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2882260