K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited applied unfair charges 
when she terminated  her hire agreement early. She wants the charges removed.
 
background
Mrs B tells us that she decided to terminate the hire agreement she had with VWFS early.  
And she went on to purchase the hire vehicle outright. She says she was made aware  of the 
purchase price of the vehicle and the early termination fee which  would apply in respect of 
the hire agreement. She states she wasnt told about the excess  mileage charges which 
would be applied. She doesnt think these  should  be added as by purchasing the vehicle she 
feels she accepted  the impact  these would have upon the value of the vehicle. Mrs B further 
complains that VWFS  applied VAT to the excess mileage charges.  She doesnt think is 
correct.
VWFS told us that the signed hire agreement contained details of the excess mileage 
charges which  would apply in the event of an early  termination of the agreement. It said this 
also showed that VAT would be charged. And that it would pass  this on to HMRC.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said that the hire 
agreement set out the details of how the excess mileage charge would be applied and 
calculated. He said it also stated that VAT would apply to the charge  itself. He explained that 
the original agreement had included 60,000 miles over a 48 month period. But when the 
agreement was terminated in November 2018  a pro rata allowance  had been calculated  at 
55,524. As the vehicle had covered 71,813 miles he thought VWFS had acted in accordance 
with the terms of the agreement in applying the excess mileage charges. And that they 
reflected the reduced term of the hire agreement.
Mrs B didnt agree with this outcome. She maintained the agreement had been mis-sold and 
that VAT wasnt correctly  charged. As its not been  possible  to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B would be disappointed  to be invoiced for excess mileage charges 
upon the early  termination of the agreement.  Particularly so when shed gone on to purchase  
the vehicle.
The various elements  of Mrs Bs complaint are - from her point of view - directly  related to 
each other.  But I need  to look at each aspect separately. Thats  because  this service is only 
able to deal with matters which fall within our jurisdiction.  And some  issues which Mrs B has 
raised during  the course of the complaint investigation - whilst important to her - dont  fall 
within that category.  So I wont  be able to deal with them. Im aware  our adjudicator  has 
mentioned this in his view letter but I also need to explain  this so that Mrs B doesnt think her 
concerns have been overlooked or ignored.
Ref: DRN27840242Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Mrs Bs hire agreement was a regulated consumer credit agreement. So this service is able 
to deal with complaints directly relating to it. That includes any allegation  of mis-selling  or 
misrepresentation. And it covers the way the terms of the agreement were  applied by VWFS 
including excess mileage  charges.
Im not able to make  any findings about the terms of the purchase of the vehicle after the 
termination of the agreement. This is because it doesnt seem the purchase was financed by 
a regulated finance agreement. The buying  and selling of motor vehicles isnt itself a 
regulated activity which falls within the jurisdiction of this service.
Ive seen the copy of the hire agreement which bears Mrs Bs signature. And condition 10.5
reads:
"if this agreement terminates early, we will reduce the maximum total mileage in the 
proportion which the  actual period of hire became to the period of hire originally agreed.  Any 
excess mileage charge will be calculated  using the reduced maximum total charge".
Page 1 of the agreement - under the heading  Key Information - sets out the excess  
mileage band  and the rate is stated  to be 6p per mile plus VAT.  
A business is entitled to expect that - where a customer has signed an agreement  - the 
customer is aware and accepts the terms and conditions. Im aware its tedious to read 
through a lot of paperwork but not doing  so doesnt mean a business cant  rely on the written  
terms of the agreement.
Ive also listened  to a recording of a phone conversation in which Mrs B paid the early 
termination fee. The call handler explains that any excess mileage charges will be calculated 
later. Mrs B acknowledges this.
Mrs B was provided with the relevant information about excess mileage charges both at the 
commencement of the agreement and immediately prior to its termination. Im satisfied she 
had sufficient details  on which  to make an informed decision relating to the termination of the 
hire agreement.
I find that the excess mileage charges were set out within  the agreement  and have been  
applied fairly  and correctly.
Although its not for me to say to which goods  and/ or services VAT is applied  I can say that 
the agreement  disclosed that VAT would be applied to excess mileage charges. Ive no 
reason to believe this wasnt  correct.  And I conclude that there  was no mis-selling  or 
misrepresentation of the terms of the hire agreement.
Ref: DRN27840243Ive already said I cant make any formal  findings about the terms on which the purchase of 
the vehicle was agreed after the termination of the hire agreement. But it wouldnt be 
unreasonable to observe that Mrs B wouldve been aware of the mileage. And in these 
circumstances mileage  is likely to have  had a dual effect on the overall cost of the 
transactions in which Mrs B was engaged. 
The excess  mileage charge can be viewed as being  negative from Mrs Bs perspective. But  
on a more positive  note - when determining what price she was prepared to pay to purchase 
the vehicle - it seems  more probable  than not that shes  likely to have factored the additional 
mileage into her decision. 
In summary,  I think VWFS has acted  fairly  and within the terms of the hire agreement when 
applying the excess  mileage charge with VAT added. Accordingly, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2784024