K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly declined  a claim she made 
on her buildings  insurance policy  for damage to her home.
background
In December 2018, Ms H made  a claim  for flooding to her  roof, which had cracked 
her bathroom ceiling,  causing water  ingress into the property,  and damage to her 
bathroom and two other  rooms. Ms H told UKI the damage happened as the result of 
a storm.
UKI appointed a surveyor  who visited Ms Hs property a few days later. Their report 
noted the roof had been replaced a few years ago, but no protection had been  added 
to the roof valley. The roof valley plays  a pivotal role in diverting water  away from the 
roof and into the guttering system, but as this was left unprotected, this diversion 
wasnt working as it should. And this resulted in water ingress into the property over 
time. 
The surveyor also noted that the bathroom  ceiling had bulged significantly and there 
was a substantial  crack along the length  and width of it. They  noted that there  was a 
substantial ingress  of water resting above the ceiling which wouldve accumulated 
over a period of time  and the ceiling  was on the verge of falling down. 
They also said there was clear  evidence of pre-existing discolouration to the ceiling 
which would support  a long standing ingress of water  that had dried  out. In relation to  
the two other rooms, the surveyor  noted that some walls in the rooms were suffering 
from damp, causing wallpaper to peel away, and remove from the walls  completely 
in some  areas.
The surveyor concluded that the damage wasnt consistent with  any single storm or 
loss  but was a longer standing problem. They noted that  there was no evidence of 
missing roof tiles as a result of recent adverse  weather. They thought  the recent  rain 
fall had instead highlighted the previous failed area of the roof valley.
On receipt of the report, UKI  concluded that no storm  conditions had been recorded 
on or around the time the loss occurred. And it said gradual loss is specifically  
excluded under Ms Hs insurance. The report showed the damage  had happened 
over time  and not as the result of a one-off  event, so it declined  Ms Hs claim. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Hs complaint.  He didnt think UKI had unfairly 
declined the claim, so he didnt uphold the complaint. He  found that the wind and 
rainfall recorded around the time of Ms Hs loss, wasnt consistent  with storm 
conditions. And he agreed it was more likely than not, the damage happened 
gradually  which isnt covered under the policy.
Ref: DRN26482392Ms H disagreed with the investigators findings.  She said she never had a chance to 
dispute the surveyors report and disagrees  that there was any  staining to the 
bathroom ceiling.  Ms H didnt dispute that storm force  winds werent present  at the 
time of the loss, but she maintained there was heavy rainfall.  And she said she had 
no prior knowledge of any issues  with the roof until the incident. As a resolution 
hasnt been reached,  the case has been passed to me to  make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive decided  not to uphold Ms Hs 
complaint and Ill explain why.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  main questions: 
has it been proven, on balance, there were storm conditions  on or around the 
date the problem  occurred?
is the damage consistent  with storm damage?
were  the storm conditions the main  cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then the claim  is likely to succeed. But, 
if the answer to any of the above questions  is no  its likely it wont. So Ive 
considered these in turn.
Has it been proven,  on balance, there  were  storm conditions on or around the date 
the problem  occurred?
Ms H says the damage  to her property was caused by heavy rainfall which she  
believes was a storm. There  are instances  where heavy rainfall,  on its own,  may 
constitute as a storm. But this is rare and would  have to be  of an exceptional  or 
unusual intensity. 
Ive checked the weather reports from shortly  before and on  the date the loss 
occurred. From what Ive seen, Ms Hs area did experience rain in the few days 
leading up to the claim.  And the highest rainfall  did happen the night before Ms H 
contacted UKI to make  a claim. 
This may well have been a period of bad weather, but Im not satisfied that the 
amount of rainfall  at that time was exceptional or of unusual  intensity. So Im not 
persuaded, on balance  that it amounts  to a storm. And so Id answer no to this 
question.
Because I dont think storm conditions  were  present at the time of the loss, Im not 
persuaded the damage  is consistent  with storm damage  or that it was the main 
cause of the damage. So Id answer  no to these two questions as well. So I dont 
think UKI unfairly  declined Ms Hs claim for storm  damage.
Ref: DRN26482393Ive considered whether Ms Hs claim  might be covered  anywhere else in the policy. 
And Ive seen that the policy also provides  Ms H cover for accidental damage to  her 
property. Accidental damage is defined  as sudden and unintentional physical  
damage that happens unexpectedly.
The surveyors report clearly states  that all damage noted was consistent  with a 
longer standing problem, and therefore  wasnt  sudden  damage. But  Ms H says the 
policy should cover her if she had no prior knowledge of the issues. And she says 
she didnt know about the problem with the roof valley, until a physical investigation 
took place.  
But based on what Ive seen in the surveyors  report, Im persuaded  that its more 
likely than not, the damage it was causing internally, had also been going  on for 
some time  before  the claim was made. And its reasonable to think that  as soon as 
this internal  damage  started to appear, it wouldve alerted Ms H to the fact that there 
was a problem  with water ingress into her property.  Further inspection at that  point, 
wouldve likely  exposed  the problem with the roof. Instead  it seems  that this water 
ingress progressed for quite some time before  Ms H made a claim.
So at the point Ms H did notify  UKI of the issue,  I dont think the damage being 
claimed for fell under the definition of accidental damage, as based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think it happened  suddenly or unexpectedly. So Im satisfied that  the 
claim isnt covered  under this part of the policy  either, and I cant see  that its 
covered anywhere else in the terms and conditions. It follows  that I wont be directing 
UKI to pay Ms Hs claim in this case.  
Ive considered all of Ms Hs comments,  including what  shes said about not being 
aware of any stain in the bathroom. But Im persuaded  in this case, that regardless of 
whether the stain was there  or not, the substantial nature of all the damage noted, 
still isnt consistent with storm damage  or a sudden  and unexpected loss, for the 
reasons Ive already explained. So these points dont change my conclusion.
Im sorry  to hear Ms H has been  unwell. And I understand shes said the issues  with 
her roof have exacerbated her condition. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think UKI has unfairly declined her claim. So while I know my decision to not 
uphold this complaint  will likely  come as a disappointment to Ms H, I hope  she can 
understand my reasoning for it.
Ref: DRN26482394my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to  
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2019
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2648239