K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr H bought the policy in 1995 at the same  time as taking out a credit card in branch. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint because:
 There was a yes and no box on the credit  agreement  giving  Mr H the chance to choose  
if he wanted PPI or not. Mr H ticked the box indicating he wanted  PPI. So I think 
Barclays made Mr H aware  that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
 Barclays thinks it recommended the PPI to Mr H  based on the fact he applied  for the 
credit card in branch. While  Mr H says he wasnt given  any information about the PPI  
other than being given  the impression it would help his application  for credit  it seems  
to have been right for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  So 
whether Barclays recommended it to him or not, he hasnt lost out as a result.  
 Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr H doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  being entitled to 
sick pay and having minimal savings  of a few thousand pounds.  But these points dont  
change my conclusion.  Mr H has indicated  he cant remember how much  sick pay he was 
entitled to. And while his savings may have  lasted a few months if he couldnt work, the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 12 months. So I think it wouldve been useful to him, 
because it wouldve allowed his savings to last longer. So if hed been given better 
information about the PPI I still think he wouldve taken  it. 
Ref: DRN22385382my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238538