K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that Covea Insurance Plc has avoided  her home insurance policy  and has 
refused to deal with her contents  claim. 
background
In February 2018  Mrs J applied for home  insurance  (buildings and contents) via a broker,  
after obtaining a quotation through an online price comparison website. Mrs J completed  the 
purchase in a telephone  conversation  with the broker.
Several months later,  Mrs J made a claim on her policy for some  stolen gold items.  Covea 
told her that when it was looking into her claim,  it had come to light that shed previously  had 
another insurance policy avoided by a different insurance provider. Covea  said it would not 
have offered cover if it had been  aware of the previously avoided  policy. It told Mrs J that it 
would avoid her policy back to the date the cover  started and would not deal with her claim 
for theft.  It said it would  arrange for all of Mrs Js premiums to be refunded to her.
Mrs J brought her complaint to our service. She said that shed asked for written  
confirmation of what shed said over the phone when she took the policy  out but this had 
never been sent to her. If shed seen that the information Covea had was wrong, she would 
have contacted it to correct it. She didnt think it was fair for Covea to refuse to pay her 
claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 September 2019 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Js complaint.  In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer should not unreasonably reject a claim 
(including by terminating  or avoiding a policy).  So I need to decide  if Covea acted  reasonably 
when it refused Mrs Js claim and avoided her policy. 
Covea has referred to its policy terms that say information which you gave us before  this 
policy started, during the course of the policy or for the purposes of renewing  the policy 
(whether provided  orally, electronically  or in writing) must be complete and correct It goes 
on to say that that if the policyholder has provided Covea with inaccurate information,  which  
might have affected its decision to provide insurance cover, it has the right to void the policy, 
which means we will treat the policy as if it had never existed.
The relevant  legislation  says that Mrs J had a responsibility to take reasonable care when 
providing information to Covea.  From  what I can see, Mrs Js policy  was sold to her through 
a broker, who was acting  on her behalf, rather than Coveas. This means that any 
information provided by the broker can be treated as if it had come  directly from her. 
Covea has avoided Mrs Js policy from the beginning  and refunded  all of her premiums to 
her. It says its done this because she provided  it with inaccurate information   in other 
words, has made a misrepresentation. The legislation allows  Covea to do this as long as it 
can show that Mrs J didnt  take reasonable care to provide accurate information and that it 
wouldnt have provided cover if it had known the correct information.  
Ref: DRN25113792Covea has sent us a copy of a statement of insurance which  is dated  a few days before   
Mrs Js policy started. It says application  generated by (broker) on the top of each page. 
And it says it represents a record of the statements you have made  and information  you 
have given us or your broker/intermediary.  I think the statement is likely to reflect the 
information the broker gave to Covea  (on Mrs Js behalf) before it agreed the cover.
The statement  of insurance contains  the wording:
The occupants of the property
Have not had any insurance cancelled, declined,  refused, or special terms imposed.
Covea has sent us a copy of a letter from Mrs Js previous  insurer  dated February 2018, 
saying that her policy had been avoided back to the date it was taken out. It also says the 
voidance of a policy is a material fact and should be disclosed to any current or future 
insurer. 
So Im satisfied that the information provided to Covea when the policy was taken out was 
inaccurate. 
Mrs J has told us that she didnt believe her policy with her previous insurer  was avoided. 
She says she cancelled her policy because she wasnt happy  with it. She told us there was a 
misunderstanding. She said the money the previous  insurer  had refunded was the same as 
the amount she was trying to claim from it, so she hadnt argued  with it 
The date of the letter from the previous insurer is the same as the date of Mrs Js application 
for the insurance  from Covea, so I dont know if shed seen the letter before she applied  for 
the cover. Given that she was applying for another policy, I think  shes  likely to have  known 
that she no longer  had home insurance  in place. If Mrs J hadnt understood that the policy 
had been avoided (rather than cancelled  by her), I think  the letter made  it clear  to her that 
her policy had been avoided and that she needed  to make Covea aware of it.
Mrs J has also said that she didnt receive written confirmation of the information shed given 
when shed taken  out the policy,  despite asking for this several times. But I think its likely 
that any conversations that might have taken  place regarding this would have been between  
Mrs J and the broker. And what I need to decide here is whether or not Covea  has acted 
unfairly, rather than how the broker might  have acted. If Mrs J thinks  the broker  didnt do 
things as it should have done,  Mrs J can raise  a complaint with it.
Covea has said that if it had been aware  of Mrs Js previously avoided  policy,  it wouldnt 
have offered her cover. Its provided us a copy of its underwriting criteria which says to 
decline cover  if any proposer has had a policy cancelled. So Im persuaded that what 
Covea has said about this is correct.
I appreciate that this will be disappointing  for Mrs J. But from everything Ive seen so far, Im 
satisfied that Mrs J didnt  take reasonable care to provide accurate information to Covea. Ive 
also seen evidence to show  that Covea wouldnt have offered Mrs J cover if it had been 
aware of the correct  information. So I think Covea has acted fairly, in line with the relevant 
legislation and industry guidance, when  avoiding the policy  and refunding Mrs Js 
premiums.
Ref: DRN25113793responses
Covea said it didnt  have  any further  comments or information to provide. Mrs J confirmed 
shed received my provisional decision,  but she didnt have anything  further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511379