K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) was irresponsible to 
lend to him when  it knew he had mental health problems. He asks that Barclaycard writes off 
the debt and pays compensation.
background
Mr E says he suffers from a severe  mental illness. He says he told Barclays  Bank about his 
mental health problems,  which affect his ability to make decisions and understand the 
consequences. He says he was told the warning not to lend to him would apply across the 
Barclays group. Despite this, Barclaycard sent an email  in September  2017  offering him a 
promotional money  transfer. Mr E transferred £5,000 to his current account. Mr E says he 
was unwell when  he did this and didnt appreciate the consequences. Mr E says he now has 
a further debt that he cant  repay.
Mr E also complains that Barclaycard offered to increase the credit  limit on his credit  card 
account after hed complained and it was aware  of his vulnerability. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
While  Mr E told Barclays Bank about his mental health problems, Barclaycard trades 
separately and wasnt  told that Mr E was vulnerable.  
Barclaycard says it has taken steps  to ensure Mr E is opted him out of future offers and 
his credit limit isnt increased.
Mr E didnt agree. He said there  are many examples of Barclays  and Barclaycard acting 
together  such as literature for Barclaycard at Barclays branches, a single  point of access 
to online  banking and instant transfers  between  accounts with Barclays  and Barclaycard. 
Mr E said even if Barclaycard is separate  from Barclays Bank he couldnt  be expected to 
know that. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Barclaycard says it made sufficient checks before offering Mr E a promotional transfer and 
increases in credit limits. Barclaycard says it wasnt aware of Mr Es mental health problems 
when it allowed him to transfer £5,000.  
Mr E says when he told Barclays Bank  about  his mental health problems he was told the 
warning not to lend to him would apply  across the Barclays group. He says he couldnt have 
known that Barclaycard was separate and wouldnt see the warning. I understand what  Mr E 
says. But this doesnt mean that Barclaycard made  an error. Ive seen no evidence  it was 
told about Mr Es mental health problems and warned  not to lend to him. So I cant fairly say 
it made an error.
Ref: DRN20395052Mr Es complaint that he was given the wrong information by Barclays  Bank is being 
considered separately.
I dont think Barclaycard responded well to Mr E when he first raised his concerns about it 
lending to him. It was unfortunate  it sent a letter saying his credit  limit would increase at 
about the same time as its first final response. I think its right that it pays compensation for 
the upset this caused. Barclays paid compensation of £250 for poor service and refunded a 
fee of £95 and interest for September and October 2017. I think  this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Barclaycard says Mr E has chosen not to reduce the credit limit as he says he needs the 
card to pay for school  fees. Its provided contact details for Mr E to call if he does want to 
reduce the credit limit. Barclaycard has confirmed that its opted Mr E out of future credit limit 
increases and promotional transfer offers. It provided contact details for its specialist support 
teams. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that Barclays Bank UK Plcs offer 
of compensation  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2039505