K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs R bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a loan. Both parties  treated 
the complaint  as if the loan and PPI policy had been  applied for in branch. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £159.70  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
£1,000 repayable over a 48 month term and the policy  term matched that of the loan. Mrs R 
told us the loan was for home  improvements. HSBC  told us that due to the passing of time it 
no longer holds a copy  of the credit agreement. The monthly loan repayment was £32.43. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs R for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mrs Rs monthly  loan repayment  for the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mrs R was employed  as a cashier and had been working for her employer for a 
year. She told us she was entitled  to 3 months  full pay in the event she was too ill to work. 
And Mrs R also told us she didnt have any other means of repaying  her loan should she be 
unable to work. Mrs R told us she would have received a payment in the event she was 
made redundant. And she expected her estate  would  receive  a payment in the event she 
died whilst in service.  Mrs R has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Rs representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs R wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mrs R about  the poor value;
 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
Ref: DRN28727542The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs R and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs R received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs complaint
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN28727543The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Rs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mrs R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN28727544Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs R and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs R know she had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The sale happened over 20 years ago, so its maybe  not surprising that neither party has 
been able to provide me a copy of the application  form from the sale. HSBC have provided 
us with a sample  of the type of agreement that Mrs R would have completed to get the loan. 
HSBC say that the form would have included the PPI if Mrs R had agreed to it. 
 
In any event, considering  how long ago the sale was and in the absence  of any detailed 
testimony from Mrs R in the matter, I havent seen sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint in this matter.  
So, considering all the submissions made in this case about these issues,  and in the 
absence of any detailed  testimony from Mrs L to the contrary, taking everything into account, 
I think its more likely that Mrs L knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out 
knowing she had a choice  to do so. 
did Mrs R take the policy because  she was out under  pressure  to do so?
Mrs R told us that she felt under pressure to say yes to the PPI. It is not in doubt that Mrs Rs 
recollections are made in good faith and that they represent her best recollection  of the 
events of the sale. But this is a subjective area and I have not been  presented  with any 
evidence that supports  this testimony.  
So, having  considered all the submission  made  in this case and the 20 plus years that have 
passed since the events complained about,  and in the absence  of any evidence to support 
the testimony, and in the absence of any detailed testimony about the matter, I am not 
persuaded that I can reasonably conclude  that Mrs R only took the policy  because  she was 
put under  pressure to do so.
did HSBC provide  advice?
Neither HSBC nor Mrs R can recall if advice was provided during this sale. Mrs R recalled 
the sale being conducted in a meeting. HSBC has no record of how the sale was conducted  
and whether advice  was given. HSBC treated the complaint  as if the sale was made in a 
meeting and that advice was given.
Because it imposes a higher responsibility on HSBC, whilst in this case  making no difference 
to the outcome of the complaint, I have  assessed  the case  as if the sale was made  at a 
meeting with advice.     
This means  HSBC had to advise Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances. 
the advice
I dont know what steps HSBC took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mrs R. It seems  Mrs R cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
Ref: DRN28727545in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser likely had some limited  information about 
Mrs Rs financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs R would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  HSBC considered whether Mrs R had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs R given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded HSBC  advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs R had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Rs ability  to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits she says she 
would have been entitled to.
-It also seems  likely that Mrs Rs redundancy benefits are likely to have been  limited 
as she told us she had only worked  for her employer for a year and she didnt have 
any savings she could  fall back on. The policy would have helped  Mrs R manage  the 
consequences were  she unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs R. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Rs employment  or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs R cancelled the policy 
early, there is nothing to suggest (at the time) that Mrs R had plans to repay the loan 
early. The purpose  of the loan was not debt consolidation or anything  else which 
might suggest a need to repay  the loan early,  or that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mrs R sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  HSBC  
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment).  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs R would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was. And whilst neither  party has been  able to provide me a copy of 
Ref: DRN28727546the actual loan agreement, I have considered the sample loan agreement provided  by HSBC 
that they say would have  applied at the time of this sale.  The sample loan agreement 
suggests that the loan amount, the amount of interest and the total amount payable in 
respect of the policy would have been  on the agreement that Mrs R would have signed to 
also get her loan. Mrs R would also have seen the premium amount she was being  asked to 
pay for the policy monthly and the number  of months of the loan. I think  that this information 
would have been, most likely, sufficiently clear  on the loan agreement Mrs R signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mrs R agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs R, Im not persuaded HSBC  did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs R. Im not persuaded HSBC gave  Mrs R all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Rs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Rs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs R has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
What effect did HSBCs  shortcomings  have on Mrs R? To what extent did Mrs R suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs R. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs R 
Ref: DRN28727547suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had HSBC done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs R, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mrs R would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when HSBC  advised her that there  was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs R was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mrs R would get back  in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Rs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs R knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mrs R repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mrs R to have done so; 
and
Ref: DRN28727548The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs R must meet  
the definition for a disability; namely  any accidental injury or sickness that happens 
after the start date,  and prevents  you from doing any work and is certified  by a doctor 
registered in the UK.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs R pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs R from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. she was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mrs R didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and she was 
in permanent employment. Mrs R also didnt likely  need,  and theres no evidence to suggest  
she intended, to repay  the loan early. I have  noted  that the policy  and the loan appear to 
have run to their full term. So, I still think Mrs R had some good reasons  to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs R would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs R needed  to be totally unable to do any work. I dont think 
this is likely to be too different  to what she would have expected to make  a claim. So, it 
seems unlikely she would have thought shed been  able to make a successful claim if she 
was still working. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs R made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN28727549Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs R would not have 
bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs R 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mrs R compensation, as that would  put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Rs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find HSBC had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs R in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2021.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN287275410
Ref: DRN2872754