K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Advisory  Services  Limited (T/A Hargreaves 
Lansdown) carried  out a pension transfer  analysis that wasnt of any use to him. He says he 
already knew he shouldnt transfer  his pension and Hargreaves Lansdown just confirmed 
that and charged  him £1,250 plus VAT.  He wants the charge refunded.
background
Mr M held deferred benefits in an occupational  pension scheme (OPS). He contacted 
Hargreaves Lansdown to discuss  transferring  the pension so that he could  access  it as a 
lump sum. Hargreaves Lansdown  explained that it could look at transferring his pension  but 
that it would  need to conduct a pension transfer analysis report  at a cost of £1,250 plus 
VAT, to see if the transfer was viable. It said that if it deemed the transfer to be in his 
interests Mr M could then take further  advice from it to transfer.  But if it didnt believe the 
transfer was suitable it would still advise  the scheme  administrator that advice had been 
taken and Mr M could go elsewhere to effect the transfer if he so wished. The cash 
equivalent transfer of the pension benefits  was around £61,000.
Subsequently Hargreaves  Lansdown confirmed to Mr M that it didnt  think  the transfer  was in 
his best interests  as he had no need  for the money at that point, and would lose the 
guaranteed benefits from the scheme pension. It confirmed it wouldnt continue  with the 
process and would send an invoice for the analysis report. But Mr M later complained  about  
the matter. He said he was dissatisfied with the outcome  of the report  and didnt believe the 
fee was justified as he hadnt been  given any advice.
Hargreaves Lansdown didnt uphold the complaint. It said it made Mr M aware  that it would 
charge £1,250 plus VAT to complete an initial pension transfer analysis  which Mr M signed  
to accept. It said it discussed the findings of the report on the telephone with Mr M but didnt  
offer any further advice  as the report wasnt in favour of transferring. Unhappy  with this 
response Mr M brought  his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. He said it 
was a regulatory requirement  for Hargreaves Lansdown to have carried out an analysis 
before giving advice  and it had a right to charge for the report. 
Mr M didnt  agree. So, as no resolution has been found the complaints been passed to me 
for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the telephone conversations Mr M had with Hargreaves Lansdown as their 
interactions were conducted  by telephone.  And Ive considered these  calls very carefully.
Having done so I find Im in agreement with the adjudicator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know Mr M feels strongly that he didnt need to be told  and charged through  a 
report that he shouldnt transfer  his pension. And Ive some sympathy for his position 
because he evidently  knew  the transfer wasnt in his interests but it was something he 
Ref: DRN22286352wanted to do.  But I dont  think  Hargreaves Lansdown has acted unfairly  here  and Ill 
explain why.  
When Mr M made his first telephone call to Hargreaves Lansdown  he explained he wanted 
to Transfer a pension into a vantage SIPP. Ive got to take advice first and you can give that 
advice. And Mr M gave  a further indication that he knew he shouldnt transfer because he 
said in theory you shouldnt transfer but it only provides  about  £2,000  per annum. So I think 
Mr M did have  an understanding of what he needed to do to be able to transfer his pension   
even if it wasnt in his best interests.  
But changes to pension  legislation from 2015  has meant that  when transferring defined 
benefit scheme pensions with a transfer value of over £30,000, it is mandatory to get 
financial advice. And I think Hargreaves Lansdown explained this clearly to Mr M when it set 
out what it could  do. It explained that it had a three  stage process which  could involve: 
An initial  discussion  (free of charge).
An transfer analysis  report.
A full advisory process if Mr M wanted  to transfer after the analysis was completed.  
The adviser on the telephone explained  that process stating its an advisory process to 
determine whether  its in your best interest  to transfer. We can certainly provide advice on 
this pension. We would usually have the stance that you should  retain  it.but we will go 
through the process.   He then set out two alternatives explaining  that if we say yes we will 
accept but if we say no we wouldnt  be able to acceptbut it doesnt stop you using 
another provider. 
So Im satisfied the adviser clearly set out Hargreaves Lansdowns position, in so much as 
the process it had in place and that it would be making a recommendation to Mr M about  
what it considered to be the best course of action. The adviser also explained The second  
stagean analysis of the pension benefits  and what youd be losingthis in depth analysis 
would cost £1,250 plus VAT.  After that we either say transfer or retain. Theres no obligation 
but the next stage would be advisory and that would  be 2% of transfer value.
I think Hargreaves Lansdown  again  made  its position clear. It confirmed an analysis would 
need to be carried  out before it could consider a transfer and it set out the fee for the 
analysis. It also confirmed  if Mr M then wanted to transfer afterwards  if Hargreaves 
Lansdown recommended  it  further  advice and charges  would be incurred.
I know Mr M says he didnt need the analysis and just wanted to transfer the pension so he 
could access it. He said its value  of around £2,000 per annum was of little benefit to his 
financial position so he wanted to access the whole pension as a lump sum  which involved 
transferring to an appropriate drawdown product first. And I can understand Mr Ms position  
here. 
But Im satisfied that Hargreaves Lansdown made him aware  that it was required  under 
legislation  to perform due diligence as to whether the transfer was in his interests. And 
importantly I think it gave  Mr M the option  to accept its process, and confirmed  that he could 
still transfer elsewhere if it didnt recommend the transfer  as he would have  fulfilled his 
regulatory requirement to take advice. So I cant say Hargreaves Lansdown  on the 
evidence of what Ive heard  has done  anything wrong here.
Ref: DRN22286353I note Mr M said hed like the minimum advice possible  and he accepted  within the call that 
the £1,250 represented  minimum advice.  Ive heard how Mr M accepted the cost as 
something that hed have  to pay in order to be able to move forward, so I dont think  
Hargreaves has misled Mr M about  its costs. And Ive heard Mr M make a number of 
references to the fee including in the last call when Hargreaves Lansdown said it would send 
him the invoice and he said he would  pay it. So I think  Mr M was aware  of the cost and what 
information he would get that would incur the fee. I think  Hargreaves Lansdown did what  it 
said it would  when it discussed the outcome of the report with Mr M. 
I can see Mr M is disappointed that the advice was not to transfer  as thats  what  he wanted  
to do  and I know  hed like me to conclude that the report  wasnt required and therefore he 
shouldnt be required to pay for it. But Hargreaves Lansdown had a duty of care to at least  
confirm whether the transfer was in Mr Ms best financial interest. 
Ultimately here Mr M contacted Hargreaves Lansdown in order  to look at accessing his 
pension. I think Hargreaves Lansdown has explained very clearly  its full process and made  
Mr M aware  that it had a legal requirement  to analyse his pension  and tell him whether it was 
in his best interest to transfer.  The transfer  amount of above £30,000 meant Hargreaves 
Lansdown had little alternative  if Mr M agreed to engage its services. 
And I think Hargreaves Lansdown set out its costs clearly and  having completed  the report  
it said it would, was entitled to charge the fee for the report.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228635