K821x#15This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs K have  complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs K aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. I dont know for certain what  was said when the policy  
was sold, and there isnt much paperwork available, but from what  we know about how 
Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax  made  Mr and Mrs K aware  
the PPI was optional, and they chose to take it out, although I can understand why they may 
not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs K so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs K have  told us they would have  received sick pay at the time they took the 
PPI and could  have relied on friends and family to help. They could also have sold their car. 
But the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for longer than the sick pay Mr and Mrs K 
would have received. And while Mr and Mrs Ks friends and family would have wanted to 
help, their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances  at the time, which  
could have changed. The PPI would also have prevented  them from having to sell their car.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time they werent affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. So I think the policy was right for them.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K have  said, including  that they were pressured  to 
take the PPI. While I cant be certain  what was said when the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs K, 
pressure can be subjective so Id need persuasive  evidence to uphold  this complaint on this 
basis, which I havent seen. So overall,  I havent  seen  enough  to make me think Halifax put 
pressure on Mr and Mrs K to take the policy.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs K paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs K back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN22150632If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs K now Ive issued my 
final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2215063