K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about  how esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim against
Mrs Js motor insurance policy following an accident.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision in March 2019, an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I wont repeat that 
information here. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  that Mr and Mrs Js complaint should be 
upheld. I said:
Whilst the terms of the policy provide that esure  is free to deal with Mr Js claim as it 
thinks fit, I didnt think  it had acted  fairly  or reasonably in relation to the investigation it 
carried out before it dealt with this as a fault  claim.  
esure came to its decision on liability too soon, before it put all the available  evidence  
to the other drivers insurer and before it had received  its response. 
Mr and Mrs J lost the opportunity to establish  that fault should be at least shared.
It would  be difficult for Mr and Mrs J to pursue the other driver themselves. 
Its not appropriate to direct esure  to carry out a proper investigation now.  
A fair outcome is for esure  to reimburse  one half of the excess  due under the policy 
and pay Mrs J £200 in relation to her distress and inconvenience. 
response to my provisional  decision  
Mr and Mrs J didnt respond  to my provisional  decision  but esure did. It said:
My provisional decision isnt logical.
Its in its own interests to ensure that it holds third parties responsible,  where 
appropriate.
It doesnt agree that it came to its decision  on liability too soon.
Based  on Mr Js testimony, it knew it wasnt going to be successful in pursuing  the 
other driver or defending a claim,  so it wouldnt risk the case  proceeding.
esure hasnt admitted  liability as the other driver hasnt made a claim  it did say that 
liability wasnt in dispute, which  simply means that it wont pursue the other drivers 
insurer. So, Mr and Mrs J are free to approach the other  driver  themselves. 
The excess is an uninsured loss and the policyholder would have always  been in a 
position where they would  have had to recover the excess themselves.
It didnt agree that compensation  is warranted.
In response to esures comment about  the excess, I told both parties that I was minded to 
change the redress  in the final order. Instead of requiring  that esure reimburses one half of 
the excess due under the policy and pay compensation of £200, I intended to direct esure to 
pay compensation of £325 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
Mrs J accepted that. esure reiterated its position. It said nothing that it had done had made it 
more difficult for Mr or Mrs J to recover anything, so it cant  understand why any 
compensation is due.
Ref: DRN25962922my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note esures view of Mr Js description of the accident. But in the particular circumstances 
here, where  Mr J had admissions from the other driver,  it doesnt seem reasonable to me to 
decide not to claim from the other  driver at such an early stage. I remain  of the view that 
esure came to its decision on liability too soon, before it had put all the available  evidence  to 
the other drivers insurer  and before it had received a response. In doing  that, it didnt wait 
for the possibility that the other driver may accept  fault, either wholly  or in part. That meant 
that Mr and Mrs J lost the opportunity to establish that fault should be at least  shared. That 
doesnt seen fair to me.
I note that esure says that it didnt admit  liability on a without prejudice basis,  as theres  
been no claim from the other driver. But it did say that liability  wasnt  in dispute. That makes 
it more difficult for Mr and Mrs J to pursue the other driver themselves. The other driver 
would no doubt  rely on the fact that Mr and Mrs Js own insurer said that liability wasnt in 
dispute. 
I appreciate that the excess due under the policy is an uninsured loss that Mr and Mrs J 
would always have  had to recover themselves. I remain of the view that theres  been  
distress and inconvenience here. Mr and Mrs J wanted to claim against the other drivers 
insurer and, based  on the other drivers  admissions, thought  they had every chance  of doing 
so. esures actions meant that wasnt explored properly and made it more difficult for them  to 
pursue the matter successfully themselves. I think fair compensation for that is £325.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold  Mrs Js complaint. I 
now require esure  Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr J and Mrs J compensation of £325.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25962923extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain about how esure Insurance Limited dealt with a claim  against
Mrs Js motor insurance policy following an accident.
background
Mrs J is the policyholder and Mr J is a named driver  on the policy. In May 2018, Mr J was involved in 
an accident whilst driving Mrs Js car. He says that he was turning right at traffic lights and the other 
driver came from behind and collided  with Mrs Js car. The rear, drivers  side of the other drivers car 
collided with the front, passenger side of Mrs Js car.
Mr and Mrs J say that the other driver accepted liability at the scene  of the accident and said that she 
had a friend who could repair Mrs Js car. Mr J recorded a phone conversation  with the other driver 
and exchanged texts  about the repair. As nothing came of that, Mrs J
wanted to claim via her insurance policy.
esure asked  Mr J for a description of the accident and, based on what he said, it decided  that this 
was a fault  claim.
Mr and Mrs J say they want esure  to ask for the CCTV footage  and a statement from the other 
driver. They want to know what investigations esure carried out.
Our investigator didnt think that esure had treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly.  She said esure  made its 
decision based on what Mr and Mrs J said. The investigator said that esure  didnt need to ask the 
other driver  for a statement or to ask for CCTV footage,  as it had enough information from Mr and 
Mrs J.
Mr and Mrs J didnt agree with the investigator. As there was no agreement  between  the
parties, the complaint  was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont  decide which party  is to blame for causing an accident; that is a matter for the courts. We 
do consider however whether an insurer, esure in this case, acted in line with its policy terms and 
whether it acted fairly and reasonably in coming  to its decision on liability.
Mrs Js policy  terms and conditions include the following:
We have full discretion in the settlement of your claim or any legal  proceedings which  may arise  
and we may take over,  defend or settle the claim  in your name for our benefit
Therefore, esure  is free to deal with Mr Js claim as it thinks fit, to include settling it as a
fault claim.  It can decide to do that if it believes  it would  be unsuccessful  in getting the other drivers 
insurer to admit that the other driver caused the accident.
Ive considered this matter  carefully. Based  on the available evidence, I dont think  that esure acted 
fairly or reasonably in relation to the investigation it carried out before it decided to deal with this as a 
fault claim.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN25962924Based on what Mr and Mrs J initially  said about  the accident,  esure contacted  the other drivers  
insurer and said that it was holding the other driver responsible for the accident. However, when it 
received Mr Js description of what had happened, it decided that he was responsible.  That was 
because Mr J was merging into a lane and the onus was on him to ensure  that the road was clear 
before proceeding.
In the particular circumstances here, I dont think it was reasonable for esure to decide that Mr J was 
wholly responsible for the accident  at that stage. It hadnt received  a response from the other drivers 
insurer. In addition, Mr J had a recorded phone conversation and texts, which he says showed that 
the other driver accepted  responsibility. Whilst esure is right to say that liability had to be established 
via insurers  - so the phone call and texts arent binding  and conclusive - it could  have put the texts  
and phone call to the other drivers insurer  for comment.
esure cant insist  that the other driver provides  a statement  but her insurer was obliged to respond. If 
the other drivers  insurer said she wasnt at fault for the accident, it would have to say why it took that 
view. I think that esure came to its decision on liability too soon, before it had put all the available  
evidence to the other drivers insurer and before it had received  its response.
esure doesnt  attempt to obtain CCTV footage  as a matter of course. It asked for it in this case, 
after it had come to its decision on liability. The CCTV footage hasnt been made available.  So, 
its not possible to know with any certainly  whether the other driver went  through  a red light.
Its not clear what  the outcome would have been if esure had carried out a more thorough
investigation. On balance, I think its likely that Mr J would  retain some liability for the accident, as he 
was in a merging lane and should have ensured the road was clear before proceeding.  If further 
investigations led to the conclusion that liability should  be shared,  this would still show as a fault 
claim, as esure wouldnt have recovered all of its costs. But esures premature conclusions about  
liability meant  that Mr and Mrs J lost the opportunity to establish that fault should  be at least shared.
In addition,  esure didnt admit liability  on a without prejudice basis,  which would  have preserved 
Mr and Mrs Js position.  So, it would  be difficult for Mr and Mrs J to pursue the other driver 
themselves.
At this distance, I dont think its appropriate to direct esure to carry out a proper investigation.  
Recollections may well have faded  and I understand that the text messages  are no longer 
available. Considering everything, I think that a fair outcome  here is for esure to reimburse one half 
of the excess due under  the policy.
Mrs J has no doubt suffered distress and inconvenience. I also intend to direct  esure  to pay
Mrs J £200  compensation  in relation to this matter.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Js complaint. I intend to require  esure  Insurance Limited  
to reimburse  one half of the excess due under the policy and pay Mr J and Mrs J compensation of 
£200.
Ref: DRN2596292