K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1995. For ease  I will refer to the business as Halifax. 
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy when they applied for a loan in 1995. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy. Although  the loan was in joint names,  Mr P was the only 
person covered by the policy. So Ive looked mainly at his circumstances when considering  
the complaint.  
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why below. 
Ive looked first at whether Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs P that they had a choice, and 
obtained their consent, in taking out the policy. I think Halifax made  Mr and Mrs P aware  that 
they had a choice about buying the PPI policy, and they chose to take it. Ill explain why I say 
this. 
Halifax has provided me with the loan application  form from the time of the sale in 1995. 
Against the words  Payment Protection  Insurance,  there are two boxes: Yes to get the 
cover and No to decline it. The Yes  box has a cross in it. Although  this has been printed on 
the application, I think its likely this was selected following a discussion with the advisor  and 
after Mr and Mrs P had agreed to take it for Mr P. I say this because all of the individual  
information about the loan and policy including costs, interest rates and loan term is also 
printed on the form. And Mr and Mrs P signed  the application form to denote their agreement  
to its contents. So it seems that Mr and Mrs P agreed to take the policy  and they would have 
known this was something they could say No to, even though they may not remember  that 
now, many  years later. 
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs P. This meant Halifax needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. Based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time,  I think the recommendation was right for them.  I 
explain why below.
Mr P was eligible for the cover,  and he doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions  from or limitations  to the policies. Mr P has told us that his sick pay in 1995  
was good initially,  but it would have  reduced significantly after six months.  And Mr and Mrs P 
told us that they had no other means to rely on in those circumstances. The PPI policy would 
have paid out for the remainder of the term of the loan if Mr P was too ill to work and for up 
to 12 months if Mr P lost his job. So I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and 
Mrs P. 
Ref: DRN20899992The cost of the policy appears to have been  comparable to other similar policies  at the time 
and appears to have  been  affordable.  
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs P.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs P, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave them was not as clear as it shouldve  been. However, 
for the same reasons  I think the policy was suitable,  Im not persuaded better information 
wouldve made a difference  to their decision to take out the PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and make no award  
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2018. 
Douglas Sayers                       
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2089999