K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the amount of interest and charges that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(the bank) has added to his credit card account.
Mr K would like the bank to refund nearly  £12,000.  
background
Mr K has been supported  by a representative  in putting his case  forward. He says the bank 
should have recognised he wasnt financially sophisticated and had a limited understanding 
of his finances. The bank had a duty to help him, but it hadnt offered him the necessary 
advice and support  to help him manage  his finances better. 
Mr K said his financial hardship was acute  and had led to stress, depression and marital 
breakdown. He said the bank should  repay the interest and charges  hed identified,  as they 
hadnt been validly applied. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. Her main  conclusions were:
The interest and charges  werent unlawful and had been added to the account in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions.
The bank  wasnt to know Mr K was in financial difficulties before 2018.  The charges 
being added to his account  were ostensibly  to do with account management issues 
not with financial  difficulties, and Mr K was making more than the minimum required 
payments.
From  February 2018 the bank started to send Mr K letters when he didnt make the 
due payments. The letters asked him to contact the bank if he was in financial 
difficulty.
It wasnt until mid-August 2018  that Mr K told the bank of his financial difficulties.
Thereafter the bank  engaged with Mr K and helped him in various ways. Apart from 
suspending interest and charges and at times  giving refunds, the bank had placed 
the account under a specialist support team. Payment agreements had been put in 
place to help Mr K. 
The data that the bank provided about  the account to outside credit reference 
agencies resulted in a credit report for Mr K that accurately reflected his position.  So 
the bank shouldnt be criticised for that. 
Mr K asked for a review of the adjudicators  conclusions. On Mr Ks behalf his representative  
said Mr K hadnt understood the terms and conditions  of his account,  and the bank had been 
under a duty to review Mr Ks account. Mr K hadnt realised what  he was signing up for when 
opening the account. Mr K also queried  if the adjudicator had adequately considered  the 
accuracy of his credit report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr K but I too 
havent upheld  his complaint. Ive come to broadly  the same conclusions  as the adjudicator,  
and for similar  reasons.
Ref: DRN23061852My additional comments  are:
Im sorry  Mr K has had such difficulties. I hope  his situation soon improves.
A lender that knows its customer is in financial difficulties should  act positively and 
sympathetically. I think the evidence clearly  shows the bank has done this in Mr Ks 
case.
Acting positively and sympathetically  doesnt mean the bank has to refund interest 
and charges that have been duly applied to the account.
I think it likely Mr K understood the main features of the credit card account  that he 
applied for and then operated over many  years. In any event and understandably, 
neither the law nor regulations are such  that an account holder can renounce  legal 
obligations to which theyve agreed when  signing  a standard form contract,  by simply 
saying they didnt understand the contract. 
I think the bank  is right that it had to pass information about the conduct of Mr Ks 
credit card account  to credit reference agencies, and I think Mr Ks credit  report  
contains an accurate  reflection of the conduct  of the account. 
Having assessed  the available evidence for the complaint, I havent found anything  for which  
the bank should be criticised in its dealings with Mr K. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306185