K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him an income  protection policy  
(IPP).
References to Lloyds include references to its agents.
background
Mr B had a unit-linked IPP with Lloyds. He took this out in 1992 and, due to the time thats 
passed, theres limited  information about what was discussed at the time of sale.
Mr B feels  the IPP has been mis-sold  to him. He has raised  two key reasons which he wants 
the ombudsman  to look into. These are set out below along with the response by Lloyds. 
indexation
Mr B queried the automatic annual indexation increases on his IPP.
When Mr B asked  Lloyds to look into the sale of his policy Lloyds commented that it is for the 
policy holder to review  their benefits on a regular  basis to ensure their needs were  being 
met. However, it acknowledged it didnt tell Mr B to decline  the annual  indexation rises from 
2001. So it amended this and paid the difference  back to Mr B to put things  right. 
Although Mr B is happy with what the bank  did to put this right, he questions  whether he 
shouldve been  told to stop paying  the annual  indexation  increases earlier  than May 2000.  
level of benefits  
Mr B says that he wouldve qualified for an annual pension for the remainder of his life if hed 
been too ill to continue  his employment.  But he wasnt told his pension would be deducted 
from any IPP payments he received under a successful claim. As a result of this, he feels he 
was over insured  from the outset. And this is the issue that Mr B feels  is most important to 
his complaint. 
Lloyds didnt agree  that Mr Bs pension meant the IPP wasnt  suitable for him. It says early 
retirement through ill health isnt guaranteed  and would be at the discretion of the trustees  of 
the pension scheme.
While Lloyds refunded  some money  to Mr B as a result of the annual indexation increases 
he didnt need  from 2001, it didnt agree with Mr Bs other points. So Mr B brought  his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  this matter and didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint that the policy  had 
been mis-sold to him. Mr B was unhappy with this. In summary, he made  the following 
points.
indexation
Mr B says the internal reviews Lloyds  undertook  have never  been  shared with him. He feels  
he shouldve  been given the advice  to stop the indexation increases before  May 2000. 
Having made some  calculations, he feels this was possibly as early  as 1995 when the 
Ref: DRN25505452insured amount started  to exceed the maximum potential  benefit he wouldve been  able to 
claim based on his income at the time.
level of benefits  
Mr B says the reduction of the benefit  available to him by any pension  payments he received 
shouldve been:
-drawn to his attention as a significant term; and
-taken into account by the advisor  when calculating the level of benefit  required in 
the same  way as the state benefits  were taken into account.  
This matter was then passed to me for a decision.  I issued a provisional decision in June 
and an extract of my provisional  findings  is below.
I have to tell Mr B that I think  the investigator  has reached the right outcome here. 
So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
indexation
I havent seen  anything in the documents Ive seen which says that Lloyds is required 
to share  the details  of any reviews with Mr B. That is, unless a change to Mr Bs 
policy was required to ensure the level of Mr Bs premium was sufficient  to maintain 
the amount of benefit. As no changes were needed  to his premium,  I cant see that 
Lloyds shouldve got in contact with Mr B about  any reviews  it undertook  of his IPP.
Lloyds says an advisor got in touch with it in May 2000 on Mr Bs behalf. At the time, 
the IPP benefit  amount was the maximum he could have based on his salary and the 
adviser was told that the automatic annual indexation increases should  stop.  Lloyds 
says that, at this point,  it wouldve been reasonable to suggest  Mr Bs declines the 
annual indexation  rises and also that this is what he wouldve done. However, as it 
couldnt see that Mr B had been  made aware of this, Lloyds refunded the difference  
to Mr B along with interest from the next anniversary of the policy,  which  was in 2001.
I know that Mr B questions if the automatic annual indexation increases  shouldve 
stopped before 2001. And hes shown us how - as early as 1995 - the insured 
amount started  to exceed  the maximum potential benefit he wouldve been  entitled to 
based on his income.  But I think its important to note that Mr B took out an 
increasing policy. This meant that he had already agreed that the IPP would increase 
at a rate of 7.5% per year. This was an automatic increase  and the details about this 
were clearly set out in the documents Ive seen. It wouldve been Mr Bs responsibility 
to monitor his income and get in touch with Lloyds at any point if he was concerned  
that the indexation increases were  already,  or going to be, more  than his salary 
increases. 
The reason  that it accepts  the automatic increases shouldve  stopped  with effect  from 
March 2001 is because Mr B got in touch with the seller of the policy. This, rather  
than a review, was what the bank says shouldve triggered Mr B being given advice 
to end the automatic increases. 
The reviews  that Lloyds undertook werent to check the amount  that Mr B was 
covered for compared with the level of his salary.  Instead, the reviews  were to ensure 
the level of Mr Bs premiums was sufficient to maintain  the amount of benefit. So I 
Ref: DRN25505453wouldnt also expect Lloyds to review whether the policy  and benefits  under it 
continued to be suitable for Mr B and his changing circumstances over the years.  
Even so, without up to date information about Mr B including his salary, it wouldnt 
have been in a position to check this.
So, taking this into account, I havent seen  any evidence  that Lloyds was made  
aware that Mr Bs salary was at such a level that the IPP benefit amount was at the 
maximum he could have  before May 2000.
level of benefits
Mr B had a civil service pension at the time he took out the IPP. And this was 
generally regarded  to provide generous benefits. 
However, whilst  Mr B may have  been able to apply  for early  retirement  on the 
grounds of ill health under  his pension,  it isnt guaranteed that this wouldve been 
approved. This is because each pension scheme has its own definition  of ill health 
that would  need to be satisfied before itd agree to give an ill health pension. In the 
guide to the ill health pension that Mr B has sent to me, I can see that hed need to 
show he was prevented by ill health  from doing the normal duties of his grade and 
that the ill health was likely  to be permanent.  Further, even if the pension scheme 
agreed to this, his employer would also have to decide to retire him before an ill 
health pension  would  be paid.
In contrast  to the ill health pension, the primary function of the unit-linked IPP was to 
offer protection if Mr B had been unable to carry out his role due to sickness or 
disability, even if this wasnt  permanent.
This means  that the circumstances  where Mr B wouldve received a benefit  under the 
IPP were wider than the circumstances  where  he wouldve received an ill health  
pension. It follows that it wouldnt  have been reasonable for the possible income  
under the ill health pension to be deducted in the same way that state  benefits  were. 
If it had, this wouldve  left Mr B open  to the risk that his income  wouldve fallen 
considerably short  of what he wouldve expected it would be under the IPP in all 
cases aside from those  where ill health  retirement was agreed.
So I dont  think Mr Bs pension scheme made the IPP unsuitable  for him or meant 
that he was over insured when he took out the IPP.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision and has made a number of points. Mr B also 
asked that a compromise proposed in his repose be put to Lloyds. Lloyds has responded to 
accept the provisional  decision. It doesnt  accept the proposed settlement offered by Mr B as 
it says theres no connection  between the contractual reviews and the 2000 amendment.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also given careful  consideration to all 
of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision, including  those in response  to the 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN25505454Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision 
and for the same  reasons.  Ill now address  some  of the specific points Mr B has raised in 
response to the provisional decision.
Mr B questions the statement in the provisional  decision Lloyds says an advisor got in touch 
with it in May 2000 on Mr Bs behalf. He says this is factually incorrect  he didnt get in 
touch with Lloyds  in 2000 and the first he knew  about  the review  was when Lloyds told him 
about it in 2018. Mr B says that, if hed instigated the review, he wouldve also sought the 
outcome of the review at the time.  He also says that he didnt tell Lloyds  about  his salary. 
And, as the bank  must  have  had access to his salary from the banks internal records, he 
feels that it wouldve  been clear that the indexation increases were  excessive  in March 1997 
when it shouldve carried out a review. 
The statement  Mr B refers  to explains what our service has been told by Lloyds about the 
review  it says it contacted the insurance  provider in May 2000 for a quotation for Mr B 
based on a salary of £30,000. It has told our service that it wouldnt have contacted the 
insurance provider  for a quotation without having  been told what  Mr Bs salary was by Mr B 
himself. And its advisors didnt have access to the banks systems to look at information  in 
current accounts or savings accounts. Having taken this into account, I find this to be a 
plausible explanation for the review that took place  in 2000 and which  forms the basis  of the 
refund provided  to Mr B from the next anniversary of the plan in March  2001.
Mr B says that his plan documents  state  a first review shall  be carried out on the fifth 
anniversary of the date of commencement. And Lloyds has failed to provide evidence  that 
this took place. So he says the refund should  be taken back further than March 2001  to 
March 1997. 
But, as Ive explained in my provisional  decision, the reviews that Lloyds  undertook werent 
to check the amount that Mr B was covered for compared with the level of his salary.  
Instead, the reviews  were  to ensure the level of Mr Bs premiums was sufficient to maintain  
the amount of benefit. So I wouldnt also expect Lloyds to review whether the policy  and 
benefits under it continued to be suitable  for Mr B and his changing circumstances over the 
years. Even so, without up to date information  about Mr B including his salary,  it wouldnt 
have been in a position to check this. I appreciate that Mr B doesnt accept this but, taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely that this is what happened in this matter.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with Lloyds  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550545