K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs F says Bank of Scotland (trading at the time as Aqua) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that Mrs F applied for this credit card and PPI online and was then sent a credit 
agreement to sign.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that she chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why she may not remember  
this.
I say this because  although I havent seen how the PPI was presented during the 
initial online application, Ive seen a copy of the credit agreement sent to Mrs F after 
her online application.  
Underneath where Mrs F has signed the overall  credit agreement,  there were options  
to add two additional products. One of these options  was for PPI. 
On the form it says; I wish to purchase Credit Card repayments Cover. A tick has 
been placed next to this option  for PPI and Mrs F has signed separately in this 
section to confirm  that she wanted to take out PPI and another  product called Card 
Care. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs F got the information  she needed 
to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, 
including her employment circumstances, it looks like she was eligible  for the cover  
and not affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong.
Our adjudicator asked  for some clarification on Mrs Fs employment circumstances  
at the time of sale but Mrs F hasnt  responded. Bank  of Scotland  told us that during 
their investigation  Mrs F told them that she began working for her employer 
permanently in summer 2005, having  previously been employed through  an agency. 
Based on what I've seen I still think that she was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt 
have found it difficult to make a claim on the policy.
Ref: DRN26833032It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs F.
But Bank of Scotland will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs F about that. Because  Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mrs F, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs F has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bank of Scotland has to pay back to Mrs F any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bank  of Scotland should  also pay back  to Mrs F any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Bank of Scotland should re-work the credit card account and pay back  to Mrs F the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Bank of Scotland should  also pay 
Mrs F 8%* simple  interest if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs F can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  (trading at the time as Aqua) does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But Bank of Scotland (trading at the time as Aqua) does have to pay back to Mrs F any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683303