K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Miss L are unhappy with the increases on their home insurance policy,  held with 
Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva).
background
In 2013, Mr A and Miss L, took out a home Insurance policy. The policy  was underwritten  by 
Aviva and started in October 2013. It provided  Mr A and Miss L with buildings and contents 
insurance with accidental damage. It also included personal possessions and legal 
services cover. 
It initially cost £540 for the year. The policys cost increased over the years  and in 
October 2016 Mr A and Miss Ls annual premium was £745.67. 
In October  2017 Mr A and Miss Ls renewal was £808.88. Unhappy  with the cost, Mr A and 
Miss L cancelled their insurance. 
Mr A and Miss L complained to Aviva  explaining that they had obtained alternative home 
insurance with a different provider which cost £166 for the year. Because of this, Mr A and 
Miss L say they dont  think  they had been  treated fairly and consider Aviva had taken 
advantage of them by overcharging for the insurance in 2013 and then unfairly increasing  
the cost of the policy every year. 
They say they were charged too much and should  be reimbursed for the extra  they 
considered they had paid over the years.  
Aviva reviewed Mr A and Miss Ls concerns. It said the premiums  charged over the years 
were correct and were in line with the type of policy Mr A and Miss L held and the cover they 
had selected.
 
Unhappy, Mr A and Miss L referred their complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Aviva hadnt  treated Mr A and Miss L unfairly.  As Mr A and Miss L 
disagreed, the matter  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. I know this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr A and Miss L, so Id like to explain why.
Mr A and Miss Ls concern that their home insurance cost too much in 2013
Mr A and Miss L think  the insurance  cost too much when they took it out in 2013.  And this is 
because they obtained a cheaper policy through a different insurer in 2017.
 
First, I would like to make it clear  that I dont have  the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. 
Ref: DRN21017652Insurers will assess and treat risk differently  and will charge different premiums  based on 
that assessment  of risk. One insurer may place a significant risk on a property whereas 
another insurer might not  and there can differing factors and reasons for each insurers  
decision. Ultimately, its up to an insurer to decide what  it charges for insurance  and I dont 
have the power  to tell an insurer whether that price is right or wrong.
I would also like to add that insurers risk models  change and get refined over time. It may 
well be that when a consumer takes  out a policy, the insurer classes the property at a certain 
risk  for a certain reason. In later years the insurers attitude to and understanding of that 
risk may change.  And this could be for a variety of reasons   such as claims made  within the 
area or geographical changes such as flooding.
 
Im also mindful that, especially in more recent  years, the home  insurance market  has 
become ever more  increasingly competitive. It isnt uncommon for insurers  to initially  price  a 
policy at a lower cost than the true cost associated with the risk of insuring a property. This is 
to attract  new customers. Insurers  aim to keep the consumer and recoup that cost over the 
subsequent years. I dont think this unfair. 
Mr A and Miss L took out buildings and contents insurance with accidental damage.  They 
also took out personal possessions and legal services cover.  So Mr A and Miss L chose 
the level of cover they wanted when they took out the policy. And in taking out the home  
insurance, Im satisfied Mr A and Miss L would  have been aware of the cost of the policy.  
Mr A and Miss L went  ahead, presumably because they thought the insurance  including  
the cost - was acceptable at the time.
While Mr A and Miss L took out an alternative home  insurance policy in 2017 that was a lot 
cheaper than their existing Aviva  policy, it was likely to be heavily  discounted. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to compare what Mr A and Miss L paid for their alternative insurance  in 
2017 against the policy they held with Aviva  in 2013. Its a different insurer quoting four 
years later, and the new insurers policy was likely to be discounted.
did Aviva  treat Mr A and Miss L fairly in the subsequent years?
I can look at whether Aviva has treated Mr A and Miss L fairly during  the time they held their 
policy. 
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around, can find they are paying much  more for their cover than a new customer. 
The insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums beyond a fair and reasonable point. 
In Mr A and Miss Ls case, they held their policy from 2013  until they did shop around  and 
decide to cancel the policy in 2017.  So it had only automatically renewed three times. I dont 
think this would have  been long enough  for Aviva  to build up a picture of Mr A and Miss Ls 
behaviour, to know they werent engaging with the renewals process. 
Ref: DRN21017653I accept Mr A and Miss Ls policy  increased  in cost between  2013 and 2016. But as 
explained above I cant tell an insurer what its insurance should cost. And given the length of 
time Mr A and Miss L held the policy I cant say that Aviva were unfairly increasing the cost 
solely because Mr A and Miss L werent  engaging with their renewals 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr A and Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2101765