K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has refused  to pay him interest or offer any 
compensation after he overpaid  his credit card. He says Barclays shouldve let him know  
that he was in credit on his credit card after hed paid his outstanding balance twice.  
background
Mr I made  a purchase on his credit  card in June  2017. He cleared the outstanding balance  
on the card on 21 July 2017 by making  a manual  payment. But the following month he also 
sent a cheque for the same amount, taking  his account into credit.  
Between September 2017 and October  2018, Mr Is statements showed that his account 
was in credit. In November 2018 Barclays sent a cheque to Mr I refunding  the credit  on his 
account. 
After receiving the cheque, Mr I raised his concerns with Barclays. He said he was unhappy 
that it hadnt notified him that his account was in credit and that it had taken it over a year to 
refund the money. He thought he should  be paid interest or compensation. Barclays  didnt 
agree so the matter was referred  to our service  for independent review. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  but she didnt  think that Barclays  had done 
anything wrong. She thought that as the payments had been manually Barclays  hadnt made 
an error. And she thought that the statements showed the position of the account  at all times 
and they told Mr I that he should  contact  customer services if he wanted  the credit  on his 
account to be refunded.
Mr I disagreed with the investigator. He said that he shouldve been  informed by Barclays  
that his account  was in credit. He also said that he hadnt received any statements from 
Barclays. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for mostly the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
I think its important to note that the reason Mr Is account went  into credit wasnt due to an 
error made by Barclays. Mr I made two manual payments to his account  - one by phone and 
one by cheque  - which took it into credit.  
Mr I believes that Barclays shouldve written  to him to notify  him that his account was in 
credit. But there was no requirement for Barclays to issue a standalone letter to him 
explaining this. This is because  the monthly statements accurately reflected the position of 
the account. They also explained what Mr I had to do if he wanted  the credit  on his account  
to be refunded. 
Ref: DRN29581822I know Mr I says that he didnt receive  the statements. But these were online and available  
for him to view. Im also conscious  that Barclays emailed Mr I each month to notify him that 
his statement was available. I can see that the email address Barclays  holds for Mr I differs 
to the one that we have on file. But Barclays says that the email address used has been on 
its records since 2009. It may be that Mr I no longer uses this email account but Barclays  
issued the notification to the contact details it had on file for Mr I. And it cant  be held 
responsible for Mr I failing  to keep it updated  if any of his contract  details had changed. 
I appreciate that Mr I may not use this credit card often. But there  is also an onus  on 
customers to check  their statements for any information about their account.  Its unfortunate 
Mr I chose not to do that at any point after making the second payment. Had he done so, he 
wouldve realised that his account  was in credit and couldve taken action to obtain  a refund. 
Overall, I dont  think Barclays is at fault for the overpayment  being made. And the monthly 
statements reflected  the account position  and a credit was shown between  September 2017 
and October 2018.  I dont  think Barclays needed  to do any more and so Im not asking it to 
make any award for interest or compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2958182