K820x#14complaint
Miss R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Although another business  sold the PPI to Miss R, Allianz Insurance  Plcs accepted 
responsibility for the sale as the underwriter. So Ill refer only to Allianz  in this decision.
background
In 1998, Miss R applied  for a store card and was sold PPI at the same time. 
The policy cost 64p per £100 of the card accounts  monthly outstanding balance.  It would 
have paid 15% of the balance per month if Miss R was off work sick or lost her job. And it 
would have continued to pay while she was off work  until, among other things, the 
outstanding balance (at the start of the claim)  had been paid off. The policy  also included life 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss R didnt agree, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Miss Rs case.
Miss R says she didnt know she didnt have to buy the PPI. But I cant  be sure,  after all this 
time, about what happened  or of how accurate her recollections of the sale are. 
Unfortunately, theres little paperwork from the time of the sale to show what  happened and I 
dont find that surprising given the time thats  passed. But Ive reviewed a sample of the card 
application form Allianz says  and I believe  is the same or similar to the one Miss R would 
have seen and signed. I think it would have  been  clear from this that she was being sold PPI 
and that she needed to select PPI before it would be added.
Overall, I believe Miss R was made  aware she had a choice about buying PPI and that she 
chose to take it.
I dont think Allianz advised  Miss R to take the PPI in the sense that I dont think it gave 
Miss R a personal recommendation based  on her particular circumstances at the time of the 
sale. So I dont think it needed to take steps to ensure the PPI was right for Miss R, for 
example, by taking  into account her work benefits or other circumstances. 
That said,  Allianz still had to give Miss R clear,  fair and not misleading information so she 
could make an informed  decision  about whether to take out the PPI. I cant say for sure 
whether that happened, but I dont think having  better information  would have  put Miss R off 
taking the PPI. I say that because:
Miss R was eligible  for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of the main things the PPI 
excluded or limited cover  for.
Ref: DRN22807852The PPI provided  a significant monthly  benefit  for a considerable period of time, and 
at a relatively low cost. It would potentially have continued to pay out until the 
outstanding balance was paid off. It also would have paid out on top of any work 
benefits she might have received. So I think shed still have seen the PPI as worth  
having.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  she would  have found the PPI to be unaffordable. And, 
as she paid for the PPI on a monthly  basis, Miss R could have cancelled it any time 
at no extra cost.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss Rs said, including  that she wouldnt  have  wanted  PPI 
since, for example,  she was in good  health  and in secure employment. But there was no 
guarantee that would  remain the case and the PPI was there  to protect  her against 
unforeseen circumstances that might have led to her being off work. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Miss Rs lost out because of how the PPI was 
sold to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2280785