K821x#15Complaint
Mr S (by way of a representative) says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) failed to identify his loans were  unaffordable. Mr S further says he had to borrow 
additional loans  (often from other payday  lenders)  in order to make  his repayments which 
resulted in him being trapped in a debt spiral.  
Background
Mr S took out a running credit facility (RCF) with a £150 credit limit in September 2013. His 
credit limit was increased to £300  in July 2014.  The facility was repaid in April 2015.
In our adjudicators most recent findings,  he didnt think Sunny had made an error by 
providing the RCF. But he thought the way Mr S used his facility, shouldve caused  Sunny 
concern. He thought Sunny should  have stopped Mr S from drawing down  on the RCF from 
30 September 2014. 
Mr S appears to have  agreed with our adjudicators  most recent findings. But Sunny  didnt  
respond to the adjudicators assessment.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mr S could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN25885852There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr S has appears to have  accepted our adjudicators recent opinion. As a result, I dont  think  
there is a dispute  about the initial granting of his facility so I have  no reason to reach any 
findings about this. Instead, I will look at how he used the RCF.
The relevant  regulations  in place at the time Mr S was given his RCF 
I think it would be helpful for me to start by explaining that Sunny gave Mr S this facility when 
it was regulated by the Office of Fair Trading  (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance on this 
type of lending and what it says should  be expected from lenders when granting these types 
of loans.
To be clear, Mr S wasnt given a payday loan where  he had to repay all of what he borrowed  
plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a facility where there  was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of five 
months. Had he wanted to drawdown  his full credit  limit of £150, the highest repayment he 
needed to make was £54.64 per month.  So overall, I think  that this means the checks  Sunny 
carried out had to provide enough  information  for it to be able to understand whether Mr S 
would likely  be able to service and then repay this facility within a reasonable period of time.
In, Section  2.2 of the General Principles of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:  creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course 
of the credit  agreement, offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
financial difficulty. So after the facility was approved, Sunny had an obligation to monitor 
how Mr S may use the facility and then step in if there were signs  of financial difficulty.
From April 2014, Sunny was regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant code from The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  6.7.2 says; a firm must  
monitor a customers repayment  record and take action where  there are signs of actual or 
possible repayment difficulties. So even after regulation was passed from the OFT to the 
FCA, Sunnys obligation to monitor  Mr Ss account remained the same.
Our adjudicator thought Sunny shouldve seen that there was likely a problem by the time 
Mr S applied for his 7th drawdown on 30 September  2014. By this point, our adjudicator 
thought that Sunny would  have seen that Mr Ss borrowing history showed he was having 
financial difficulties because he was potentially reliant on the facility.
At the start of the lending relationship, I dont think Sunny had any cause for concern. Mr S 
was initially using and repaying his facility  in-line  with Sunnys credit agreement. He 
requested his full credit  limit of £150 and repaid this over a period of three  months.
At the end of May 2014, Mr S made his repayment  of £54.81 before taking the maximum 
drawdown he could  in order to take him back up to his credit limit around two days later.  He 
did the same  thing at the end of June  2014, before his credit  limit was increased on 
2 July 2014 up to £300. On 3 July 2014,  Mr S returned to drawdown the maximum he could, 
given his new credit  limit. 
This pattern broadly  continued - Mr S making  multiple repayments and then drawing back  up 
to his credit  limit within a few days. The way he was using  the facility  showed he was not 
Ref: DRN25885853making any headway  in repaying  what  he owed.  Instead, Mr S was paying Sunny interest to 
effectively service the debt. 
By the time Mr S returned for another drawdown in September 2014, he had already had the 
facility for 12 months and had spent the last nine months repaying his outstanding balance. 
This was significantly longer than the credit  agreement provided by Sunny expected.  
Although there was no end date, Sunny expected the repayments  to have been made over 
five months, not nine which  is what happened here.
Given the obligation on Sunny at the time,  I think it ought to have had real concerns about
Mr Ss ability  to manage the account in the way expected by September 2014. So as a 
responsible lender it ought to have  realised that Mr S wouldnt be in a position to suitable 
manage any repayments moving  forward because he wasnt using the facility  as intended by
Sunny. So when Mr S made his repayment  on 30 September 2014, Sunny shouldve  
stopped Mr S from taking  further drawdowns.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on drawdowns from 30 September  2014   
until his facility closed;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  from Mr Ss credit file about his running credit 
facility from 30 September  2014  until his facility closed; 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Elevate Credit International Limited should  pay Mr S compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020. 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2588585