K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc dropped its interest rate on his savings account  even  
though itd promised not to do that.
background
Mr B says TSB promised  the 5% interest rate would be for good after it had problems with 
its IT systems in April 2018. Its now given him notice that its reducing the rate.
TSB said that after its IT problems in April 2018  its CEO at the time gave a radio interview in 
which he said the 5% interest  rate is there  for good. It said that those comments were  
quickly  superseded  shortly afterwards in a communication  to all its customers. This said it 
would waive overdraft fees and interest  charges in March and April 2018 and would increase 
the interest rate on its Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. It said it promised this wont be 
taken away after a year. It later reviewed  its position and announced it would be reducing  
the rate from 5% to 3% with effect  from 2 July 2019.
It said that its CEOs comments were  clarified by the communication sent to all customers.  
And that its terms and conditions make it clear it can vary the interest  rates after reasonable 
notice. It said the temporary rate increase was to acknowledge the difficulties its customers  
experienced after the system upgrade. But it wasnt its intention to provide that rate 
indefinitely.
The adjudicator didnt think TSB had done anything wrong. He said TSB didnt say the 
increased rate would continue indefinitely. It said it wouldnt be taken  away after a year.  So 
when it informed its customers  that the rate would  be reduced in July 2019 it was entitled  to 
do that. Particularly as this was in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr B wasnt  happy with this. He pointed out that the CEO  said the rate is there for good. So 
he didnt think TSB had any right to reduce  that rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After its IT problems in April 2018 TSB said it would be waiving any overdraft fees and 
interest it wouldve  normally  applied  in March and April 2018.  It also said it would be 
increasing the interest rate applicable to its Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. TSBs  CEO 
said that the rate change was for good  during a radio interview.  And in a communication 
released shortly afterwards TSB said this rate increase wouldnt be taken away after a year. 
It increased the rate on 1 May 2018.
Around a year later TSB said it would be reducing  the interest rate on this account  from 5% 
to 3%. It was doing this after reviewing its position  with the rest of the industry. And in 
advance of making the change TSB notified all its customers  including  Mr B.
I know Mr B wont agree  with me but TSB is entitled  to make this decision as a business.  Its 
sent Mr B reasonable notice of the actions it was going to take, so I think  its done what  it 
shouldve done  in line with its terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN21925152Mr B feels  very strongly about this because  TSBs  CEO said the rate would be for good. 
But it quickly  followed that up with a communication saying it wouldnt be taken away  after a 
year. Its decreasing  the rate from July 2019 which is more than a year after it increased it. 
So I dont  think its acted  unfairly. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2192515