K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc made  a number  of mistakes in collecting a direct 
debit to repay his credit  card account.
background
Mr O says he agreed a repayment  amount with HSBC in 2017 for his credit  card account. He 
says a payment  was missed due to HSBC  and that he asked it to change the date of the 
direct debit. Mr O says he noticed in early  2018 that there were  four payments outstanding. 
He says he agreed a new repayment amount but HSBC tried to take too much so the 
repayment failed.  Mr O accepts he made  some  mistakes  at this time but that HSBC should  
compensate him for what happened and allow him to set up a repayment amount in line with 
what would  have happened if it didnt make the mistakes.
HSBC accepts it didnt  deal with this issue as it should and paid Mr O £200  compensation. 
Its also agreed to remove any adverse information  from Mr Os credit file caused by its 
mistakes. HSBC says its agreed a number of repayment plans with Mr O.
Mr O brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator thought  HSBC had made  mistakes  but had acted fairly by paying a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation and amending Mr Os credit file. The adjudicator  
thought overall  HSBC  had put Mr O back in the position he would have been in.
Mr O doesnt accept  that view and says hes not interested in compensation but wants  
HSBC to put him back in the position  he was in before the mistakes. He says he would like 
HSBC to agree a new monthly repayment  and says HSBC has exasperated the position hes 
in.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Os complaint again  and thought that it wasnt  our role to 
arrange repayment plans but she offered  to speak to HSBC  about it.
HSBC says it would like to speak to Mr O before agreeing a new repayment plan to make 
sure its affordable.
Mr O says he would like the minimum balance  and amount he owes  to be reset  as he wasnt 
responsible for the missed payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr O will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no real dispute  here that HSBC made a number of mistakes in collecting  the agreed 
payments at the end of 2017  and in early 2018.  I can also see that Mr O also accepts 
responsibility for some of the problems as he accepts  he didnt check  to see if the payments 
were being  made. But Im satisfied that HSBC  has apologised for what  happened and paid 
what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £200. Im also satisfied that 
HSBC has acted fairly by removing any adverse  information about what took place that was 
its responsibility from Mr Os credit  file. I think that award  fairly  reflects  the level of HSBCs 
mistake and the impact  it had on Mr O.
Ref: DRN28100142I appreciate that Mr O says hes not concerned about the compensation but about how 
HSBC records the debt and the setting up of a repayment plan.  Whilst Im sorry to disappoint  
Mr O I should  explain  that our role is not to facilitate or help agree repayment  plans in these 
sorts of situations. And Mr O should  contact  HSBC to set up a plan as hes done in the past.
I also appreciate that Mr O would like HSBC to change  the way in which it records the 
amount he owes and what the minimum payment  should be. Again I dont think  its our role 
to fairly tell a business how it makes such business decisions or how it exercises its 
commercial judgement. I accept that HSBC didnt take agreed payments from Mr O. But I 
dont think that means  that Mr O doesnt  owe HSBC the money or that HSBC shouldnt 
record that information as it has done.  I also would have expected Mr O to have  noticed  that 
payments were not being taken in the months leading  up to the end of 2017  and contacted  
HSBC on receipt of the letters  I can see it sent him at that time.
Overall Im satisfied HSBC has dealt fairly with this complaint and I dont require it to do 
anything further  in the circumstances of it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2810014