K821x#15complaint
Mr Y complains that ITL Mortgages Limited  made errors when he took out additional 
borrowing under  one of his buy to let mortgages.  He says ITL applied  the loan to the wrong 
mortgage. He wants the loan and charge  moved  to the correct property and compensation 
for financial loss.
background
Mr Y has buy to let mortgages with ITL secured on two properties,  which  Ill refer to as 
property A and property  B. In April 2018 Mr Y applied for £100,000 of additional borrowing  
under both mortgages. He decided to go ahead with the additional borrowing on property A. 
He says ITL mixed up the properties and applied the further advance to the mortgage on 
property B. 
Mr Y wants  ITL to transfer the borrowing to property A. He says he wants  to sell property B. 
He says he has losses of about £10,000  and property Bs value has declined.
ITL said it cant  transfer the further  advance from property B to property A. It said Mr Y would  
have to repay the £100,000 and if he did so it would waive the ERC and refund three months 
interest. It said as the application for an advance  on property  A has expired Mr Y would have 
to start the process again. Mr Y says hes used the funds and cant  repay them.  
Our adjudicator asked  ITL if it would  waive  the ERC if Mr Y sells property B and repays the 
mortgage. ITL agreed. It had already  offered to refund three months interest   about £645  
and said this was still on offer.  Our investigator  said this was fair and reasonable.
Mr Y didnt agree, saying  he wanted  the advance removed from property B. So the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr Y applied for additional borrowing  under buy to let mortgages on two of his properties.  
ITL issued  offers  in May 2018. Each offer was for £100,000 with the same  fixed  rate product. 
Mr Y accepted one of the offers and the advance completed at the end of August 2018. In 
September 2018 Mr Y contacted ITL as hed noticed that the advance  was on property  B, 
not property A as hed intended. ITL said he could return  the mortgage funds and it would 
have waived the ERC. ITL sent a revised  offer to Mr Y for a further advance on property  A. 
This had the same  product  terms as the further advance Mr Y had taken out. The offer 
expired in January 2019.
Mr Y wasnt  happy with the solution offered by ITL and made a complaint in March 2019.  ITL 
upheld Mr Ys complaint.  It says it should have noticed the addresses had been linked to the 
wrong mortgage applications. It said Mr Y could return the mortgage funds and if he did so it 
would waive the ERC  and refund  three months  interest. By this time, the offer of a further 
advance had expired and ITL said Mr Y would  have to re-start the application process.
Ref: DRN25208132Mr Y wants  ITL to transfer the borrowing from one mortgage  account to the other. I dont  
think its reasonable to require  ITL to do something which its said it cant do. In the 
circumstances, I think  the solution  offered by ITL was a fair and reasonable way to sort 
matters out. 
Mr Y had taken out the advance for a purpose and I understand that he was unable to repay 
it. But he could have  taken a further advance  on property  A, as ITL suggested, and used the 
funds to repay the advance on property B. ITL sent a revised offer,  with the same  product 
terms, to Mr Y in September 2018 so Id have expected  this to be a straightforward process. 
Or Mr Y could have made  a new application for an advance on property A after ITL 
responded to his complaint. He could have used the funds  to repay the advance  on 
property B and taken  advantage of ITLs offer to waive the ERC and refund three months  
interest.
Im not persuaded that Mr Y was caused  any financial loss by this. The amount of the 
advance and product terms  are the same as hed intended to take out, so he hasnt  paid any 
extra interest. Mr Y hasnt explained  why the error prevented him from selling property B: the 
further advance  would  have been repaid  from the sale proceeds,  as is often the case in 
property sales. 
I appreciate that this has caused Mr Y some  inconvenience, and re-applying for an advance 
on property A would have added  to this. But I think ITLs offer to refund three  months 
interest was fair and reasonable compensation for any trouble this caused.
Mr Y says he now intends to sell property B. ITL says if Mr Y sells property  B, it will waive 
any ERC and refund  three  months interest on the further advance.  ITL says it understands 
property sales can take time and so it hasnt put a time limit on this: I think to be fair to both 
parties this offer shouldnt extend  beyond  the term of the current  product. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order ITL Mortgages Limited to waive any ERC  
and refund three months  interest on the further advance if Mr Y sells property B during  the 
term of the current mortgage product.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2520813