K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr B says he doesnt recall being  told about  PPI. He also says he doesnt  recall it 
being sold at a meeting with the bank. Ive looked at Bank of Scotlands records 
made at the time. I can see that the PPI was added at the same time as the credit  
card was taken out, in a branch. 
Bank of Scotland has sent in a copy of Mr Bs credit  card application form.  On it, 
theres a section about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer had to select the box 
saying they wanted  PPI. The box couldve been  left blank if they didnt want PPI. 
There is a cross  in the box on Mr Bs application selecting PPI. I think  it likely that   
Mr B wouldve  understood from the form that PPI was optional  it said if you want  
these services please mark the relevant  boxes. So, I think it more likely  he opted to 
take PPI, completing the paperwork and signing the form to say he wanted it. I can 
understand why he may not remember that now, given how much time has passed. 
As this policy was sold in the branch, I think it likely that Bank  of Scotland  did 
recommended the PPI to Mr B. So, it had the added  responsibility  of considering 
whether the policy  was suitable for Mr Bs needs. It also had to give him information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading,  so that he could decide for himself  if the PPI 
was right for him and if he wanted  to buy it.
I think the policy was suitable for Mr Bs needs,  Ill say why.
Mr B was eligible  to take out the policy and it appeared affordable. 
Mr B was self-employed  at the time,  but I cant see that it was any harder for him to 
make a successful claim on the policy than it wouldve been  for an employed person.  
And I cant see that he was otherwise affected  by any of the main exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. 
Mr B said his family and friends  couldve helped with his repayments. I accept they 
may have wanted to, but help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time 
comes, so I havent placed much reliance  on this. He also said he couldve sold his 
car, but again  I havent placed  much weight on this because it might  not have been 
easy or quick to sell the car.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
Ref: DRN23784002wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr Bs said but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378400