K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
AXA has told us Mrs S paid less than £7 in PPI premiums in total over the life of the policy.
Mrs S bought the policy by phone in 1995 two months after taking a store card.  She was 
employed at the time as an office worker  and had been there 6 years. She has told us she 
was entitled to less than six but at least three months full pay for sickness and redundancy. 
Shes also told us that aside from this and help from her husband, she didnt have any other  
means with which  to pay her card if she couldnt work  like savings for example. From what  
Mrs S has told us, at the time of the sale she was in good health and hadnt had any health  
issues although shes told us of suffering some health issues some  years after the sale.
The PPI policy provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment, and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it 
offered to pay 15% of Mrs Ss card balance. It cost at the time no more than £1 per £100 of 
the monthly outstanding balance. The premium still had to be paid during a successful claim 
and attracted interest. The life cover, subject to its terms,  would clear  the balance  on death. 
The policy also provided purchase cover. Mrs S hasnt complained about this element of the 
insurance policy so I will not consider it further  in this decision. 
Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  Ill 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Ss representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs S wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Ss representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  AXA should have told Mrs S about the 
poor value; 
Ref: DRN29010022The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs S and the impact they would 
have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN29010023The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Ss case. Ive also taken 
account of relevant law in reaching my decision,  including: the law relating to negligence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on professional 
advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law relating to the duty 
of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causation  and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA was 
required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance when  
considering Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN29010024-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs S suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mrs S has said she had no interest in PPI 
and says it was just included with her card as part of the package. I give her recollections 
some weight. But I also take into account that many years passed between  the sale and 
Mrs S setting out her recollections of it. Also, Mrs S has told us she cant  recall how the sale 
took place. With all this in mind, on balance Mrs Ss recollections arent enough  on their own 
to make me think AXA included the PPI on her card without  giving her a choice.
AXA says the PPI was sold by phone. Taking  into account that Mrs S couldnt recall  how the 
sale took place,  what I have makes me think it likely the PPI was sold by phone. From what 
Ive seen, where AXA sold PPI by phone for a card like Mrs Ss, the card was usually already 
active. This is also what AXA says happened here:  Mrs S and AXA agree the PPI was sold 
early in 1995. AXA says her card had started around  two months  before that  and Ive seen 
nothing persuasive  to suggest  the card didnt  start when AXA says it started.
So, based  on what I have,  I think Mrs Ss card had already started when the PPI was sold to 
her  so the PPI wasnt part of the package  when she took the card.  As her card had been 
running without  PPI, I also think it likely Mrs S wouldve  known the PPI was something 
separate from the card and not something  she had to take to have the card running.
Also, looking  at all Mrs S has said, there isnt anything to make me think she was pressured 
into the PPI. So, taking everything  into account, I think  its more likely Mrs S knew the PPI 
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. But it would be understandable if 
she didnt recall all the details of the sale now, given how long ago the phone call took place.
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Mrs S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means  AXA 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs S. Instead,  it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether  
to take the policy,  including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Ref: DRN29010025Ive seen policy terms and conditions that I accept  - on a balance  of probabilities - likely 
reflect those  that applied to PPI policies  like Mrs Ss. But AXA hasnt been able to provide 
any call script to show what information  Mrs S mightve been given during the call before she 
agreed to the PPI. So, based on what I have, Im not persuaded AXA gave Mrs S the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take the PPI.
This sale took place  by phone. I dont  know exactly what AXA told Mrs S about the PPI, but I 
think it unlikely she wouldve agreed to take it without having at least a broad understanding  
of the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident, sickness and unemployment cover. And I think 
its unlikely Mrs S would  have thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ss attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs S, including the need to maintain premiums  during 
a claim or that payments  would attract  interest.  In addition, its unlikely AXA adequately drew 
to her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ss representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ss. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ss representative considers  to be poor  value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs S about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs S has suggested. And, taking into account the law, industry  codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
Ref: DRN29010026what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs S. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. 
To answer  this, I must decide  whether  or not Mrs S would have still taken the policy,  had 
AXA done  things  properly. Mrs S says she would  not have taken it and believes that I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. As Ive found above,  she chose to take this policy. So I consider 
that its reasonable to conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But she made this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mrs S 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which  this differed  is a 
relevant consideration when determining if Mrs S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Mrs S didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any health  issue  Mrs S knew or ought to have 
known about or which she had asked  about  or received advice or treatment for from 
any medical practitioner during the 12 months  before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions, placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs S be stopped from 
doing her own or any similar job, and stopped from doing any paid work  her 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified her to do; and
The terms at the time of sale likely  provided for cover to end at age 65 or, if earlier,  
retirement.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs S pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking  the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the insured 
Ref: DRN29010027risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  she wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  from what shes told us, Mrs S didnt have  and 
hadnt had any health issues at the time of the sale and was in permanent employment.  So, I 
think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs S 
from taking the policy,  Mrs S, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she were stopped from doing her 
own or any similar job and also stopped from doing any paid work her experience,  education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into her thinking about  what to 
do. And I accept it may have given her pause for thought  although, given her 
circumstances, on balance I think Mrs S would have still been interested in taking the cover.
Mrs S has complained she became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when she 
turned 60. Ive thought  about this and the fact that, under the likely terms in force at the time 
she bought the policy, once Mrs S retired or reached 65 she wouldnt have been able to 
claim on the policy. 
But Mrs S was in her early fifties  when she took the policy,  so I think  it more  likely than not 
shed have thought shed  still get some value out of having it - as its likely it wouldve 
covered her for disability and unemployment for a reasonable period of time before she 
retired or turned 65.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Mrs S would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit at a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding her employment benefits. And, in those circumstances, I consider it more 
likely than not she would have taken the policy in any event. In saying this I also take into 
account what Mrs S has said about her husband helping, but I also bear in mind that other  
peoples circumstances  and ability to help can change.
Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. 
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs S would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN29010028I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs S in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible she would not have taken the policy, I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay Mrs S compensation,  as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2901002