K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home insurance with Tesco  
Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco). 
background
Ms Hs home insurance policy was taken over by Tesco in 2011. The first premiums charged 
in 2011 totalled £601.80 (including tax) for the year. This increased in 2012,  then decreased 
in 2013 and 2014. The premium increased again in 2015 and 2016. Ms H is particularly 
unhappy that the premium increased from £832.08  (inc tax) in 2015  to £1,116.36 (incl. tax) in 
2016. Ms H doesnt  understand  why the policy increased this much when she says she 
didnt make a claim since 2009.  
Tesco says the policy was priced  correctly  and it has treated Ms H fairly. Our adjudicator 
agreed with this. Ms H is unhappy and so the case has come to me for a decision. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Tesco has treated Ms H fairly throughout the period she held her 
insurance policy. Based on the evidence Ive seen I think Tesco has treated Ms H fairly. Ill 
explain why. 
Ms H has said she doesnt understand why the price of the policy has increased so much 
when she hadnt  made a claim  since 2009.  Tesco has sent evidence  to show  a water 
damage claim was made in January 2012. Ms H also notified  Tesco  of a possible accidental 
damage claim in July 2011, as well as an escape of water  in 2015. While I can see no claims 
were made on these occasions,  the insurer is still entitled to record  these incidents. Tesco 
says that any change to their risk assessment can have an impact on the price they offer. 
This is common  across the industry.  
Tesco has explained  to this service why the price of Ms Hs policy  went up in the way it did. 
That information is commercially sensitive so Im unable  to share it with Ms H. But Id like to 
reassure her that Ive checked the information  that Tesco has provided  very carefully. And, 
having done so, Im happy that Tesco  has applied  its pricing criteria fairly and consistently in 
the same  way it would  to any of its other  customers with similar circumstances. Ive seen no 
evidence that Ms H was singled  out in any way.
Tesco isnt obliged to explain to its customers how its priced its policies. But it does need to 
send renewal offers a reasonable  amount of time before  the policy renews  so they have the 
chance to shop around or discuss the price with Tesco  if theyre unhappy. Its for consumers 
to decide whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered at the price theyre offered. I 
can see that the price  offered to Ms H in 2016  was ultimately unacceptable to her and she 
cancelled her policy in December 2016  and found  what she thought was a more suitably 
priced policy elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN20256192The insurance market  is a highly competitive one and new policies typically  include 
significant discounts in order to attract new customers. But that in itself isnt necessarily 
unfair. Renewing home  insurance can involve a bit of time and effort  to get the best terms. 
People who take the time to shop  around often end up paying less. But I dont think  Tesco  
should have to compensate Ms H for this in the circumstances of her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2025619