K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining that Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited (Tradewise)  has avoided  
his commercial vehicle  insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 Mr C took out a commercial vehicle insurance  policy  out with Tradewise. He 
arranged the policy through a broker. In February 2018 Tradewise wrote  to Mr C to say that 
it was avoiding his insurance policy due to a misrepresentation of his claims history  and it 
said it would  be retaining the premium  he paid.
Mr C complained as he thought  the voidance was unfair. He said he didnt dishonestly  
misrepresent the claims history and he also thought it was unfair that he wasnt given the 
opportunity to respond before the policy was avoided. He said he made  a simple mistake 
and this has ruined  his business as he can no longer afford to meet  his financial  
commitments.
Tradewise maintained that the avoidance was fair. It said that Mr C was asked  how many 
claims hed had in the last three  years and he only disclosed one. But it said there were two 
other claims  made  and a further  claim that was subsequently withdrawn. It thought  he 
deliberately withheld  this information  to get a cheaper premium.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that he listened to all the calls that Mr C 
had with the broker when taking out the policy. And he said that Mr C had initially  said that 
he hadnt made any claims. The broker  later found out about the claim that was disclosed 
and the adjudicator said that Mr C disputed that claim as he said hed told the insurer not to 
settle the claim. And the adjudicator said Mr C would speak with his previous insurer.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr C continued to provide  incorrect  information and he thought  
Mr C would have known  the importance  of doing so. So he thought that Mr Cs 
misrepresentation was either deliberate or reckless.  And he said Tradewise could avoid the 
insurance policy and retain the premium in these  circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said he gave the broker  his insurers details and 
asked it to contact the insurer  to get the correct details. He says the broker  contacted him 
again to say that it was happy  to continue with offering the policy. He maintains that he 
always answered the questions to the best of his knowledge and belief. He said he had no 
motive to be dishonest to not provide  the correct claims history.  He said he thought  he only 
had to disclose  claims that he made on the policy and he says he didnt make these claims.
As he didnt  agree, the complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why. 
Mr C thinks that it was unfair for Tradewise to avoid his insurance policy  because  of what he 
says was a simple mistake. But under the Insurance Act 2015 it was Mr Cs responsibility  to 
Ref: DRN24009522tell Tradewise about everything it needed  to know to decide whether to insure the risk and 
under what  terms (duty  of fair presentation). 
The Insurance Act sets out that misrepresentation can fall within  four different categories  
deliberate, reckless, careless  and innocent.
An insurer  can avoid an insurance policy  and retain  the premiums paid where it can show  
that the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, regardless of whether it wouldve 
insured the applicant or not had it known the true facts.  It can only declare a policy void for 
careless misrepresentation  if it can show it wouldnt  have insured him had the 
misrepresentation not happened.  But it must refund the premiums the policyholder  paid. 
Tradewise says this is reckless misrepresentation. And I agree.
The Insurance Act considers a misrepresentation to be reckless  or deliberate if the insured 
knew that he was in breach of the duty of fair presentation or didnt care whether or not he 
was in breach  of that duty.
Mr C was aware that he needed  to give an accurate reflection of his claims history.  Ive 
listened to all the calls that Mr C had with the broker and he was inconsistent  with the 
information he gave.  I can see that on one call, the broker  told Mr C that it had become 
aware of a claim and Mr C acknowledged that he was aware of that claim. The call handler 
set out that he needed  to contact his previous  insurer to get a full understanding  of his claim 
history. And Mr C acknowledged this
It appears that Mr C did speak with his previous  insurer about  his No Claims Bonus 
entitlement, but didnt discuss the claims history. And Mr C continued to provide incorrect  
information about his claims history  after this point. In a further  call the broker explained to 
Mr C that hes providing inconsistent answers and Mr C was aware of this.
Ultimately it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure that Tradewise had all the correct  
information. And, he was aware that he should have discussed his claims history with his 
previous insurer about  what  his claims  history was. And I can also see that the broker  asked 
him to speak  with his previous insurer on at least two occasions in respect to his claims 
history. But he didnt do so.
I note Mr C said that he asked the broker to speak  with the insurer and he says that the 
broker said it would do so. But I dont  agree.  From  listening to the calls,  I can see that he did 
ask the broker  to do so, but it said that it was Mr Cs insurer so he needed to contact the 
insurer himself.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr C was aware  that he needed to clarify what his actual claims 
history was but didnt  do so. Given this, I have to conclude that he didnt care whether the 
information he was giving  was correct or not. So I think it was fair for Tradewise to consider 
the misrepresentation to be reckless. The Insurance Act allowed it to avoid the insurance 
policy and retain  the premium in these circumstances. So I dont think Tradewise acted 
unfairly in this case.
Ref: DRN24009523my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2400952