K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out 
around 1990 or earlier. Mr D says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr D says he was told he had to have  the PPI to ensure his mortgage application was 
accepted. But theres  no other evidence to back up what he says. The sale was around 
30 years ago, and Mr D understandably  doesnt  have a clear  memory of it  such as 
where or when it took place. So I dont think theres enough for me to say that HSBC 
didnt make  it clear  that Mr D had a choice about taking the PPI or that he didnt choose 
to take it out. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr D so it had to check  that it was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time, I think it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems  to 
have had a need for the cover. The letters sent to Mr D about the policy  suggest it didnt 
exclude pre-existing medical  conditions. And Mr D has told us that he had no medical 
conditions at the time of sale. And although  Mr D had some savings, the PPI wouldve 
meant he wouldnt have had to dip into those savings to pay his mortgage  if he made a 
claim. So hed have  been  able to get by for longer if hed been  made  redundant or was 
off sick for a long time. 
Its possible  the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems  like it would have been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. And it also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  
the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. So Ive thought about whether this is 
relevant to Mr Ds complaint. 
These rules  and the Supreme  Court judgment  relate to the unfair relationship  provisions in 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were added  to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 2006 
explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements  taken 
out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still running on 
6 April 2008. Mr Ds mortgage  ended in 1998,  so the rules and the Supreme Court 
Judgement dont apply. As such,  HSBC  doesnt have to repay any commission  Mr D may 
have paid as part of his PPI premiums.  
Ive thought about everything Mr D has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN20541572my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2054157