K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc defaulted his bank account and he says that this 
affected his mortgage application  even though hed settled the outstanding debt several  
years earlier.
background
Mr M says he approached HSBC about a remortgage; he wanted  to transfer the mortgage  
into his sole name and apply for a new mortgage deal. He says the bank  declined  his 
application because  of a historical  debt hed accrued with HSBC but had subsequently 
repaid. Mr M told us:
He held a joint current account with his ex-wife, and following their separation in 
2012, he was left to sort out all the outstanding  financial matters.
In 2018, he applied for a mortgage  transfer, but the bank  declined  his application 
because of adverse  credit on my file.
He checked  his credit file and discovered that the joint account that he held with his 
ex-wife had been defaulted  in April 2013 because  of an outstanding debt of £216.
He had overlooked the existence of this account; he says he would not have 
knowingly defaulted on any account that he held.
He had told the bank that now he was aware  of the account,  hed prefer  to pay off the 
outstanding debt in full - £216  so that the adverse credit mark on his file can be 
removed and no longer appears  on his credit report, but the bank said hed repaid 
the debt in 2013.
Mr M says Its unacceptable to be punished  by my bank  five years later for a debt I paid off 
five years ago. He says hes been unable to arrange a new lower mortgage rate with HSBC  
and the banks treatment is unfair and amounts to financial  bullying.
HSBC rejected this complaint. It says Mr M was aware of the account in 2013;  it was a joint 
account and both parties are jointly responsible for the account and for any debts that 
accrue. It says it defaulted the account because  of the unauthorised debt and its obliged  to 
report accurate information about how the account  was managed to the credit reference 
agencies (CRAs).
HSBC confirmed that Mr M repaid the outstanding debt in June 2013 and the account  was 
closed. It says it notified the CRAs  that the default had been fully satisfied, but it explained 
that the default will remain on Mr Ms credit file for the statutory six years;  it will no longer 
appear on his credit  file after 8 June 2019.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained Mr M had known about  the account  and the outstanding balance; hed seen notes 
confirming Mr M had contacted HSBC  in January 2013 to discuss  the debt.  Hed made a 
payment towards  the debt and agreed  a repayment plan with the bank. No further payments 
were made and the bank defaulted  the account  3 months later.
He acknowledged  that the bank had sent Mr M correspondence about  the debt, but that 
these letters had been sent to an address  unknown  to Mr M. Although he sympathised with 
Mr M, he didnt think this made a difference  and he didnt  think the bank had made  a mistake 
when it defaulted  Mr Ms account.  He explained  that Mr M knew  about the debt in January  
2013. And hed made a payment towards  the outstanding debt in January 2013, so he knew 
Ref: DRN24671652it needed repaying and had agreed a repayment  schedule. When he made no further 
payments towards  repaying the outstanding  balance, it wasnt wrong for HSBC to default  the 
account. 
Our adjudicator explained that the marking of a default is likely to affect someones ability to 
obtain credit  for some time  a default  remains on a credit file for six years.  But he explained 
that in view of the time that had now elapsed, the default should no longer appear on Mr Ms 
file.
Mr M disagreed so the complaint  comes to me to decide. He says he settled the debt without 
having received  correspondence from HSBC. And he says he wouldnt have done this if he 
had been intent on defaulting  the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given these events took place some time 
ago; Ive not been able to see all the information about how the correspondence address for 
this account was changed or by whom.  But this isnt unusual, given that banks arent 
required to keep customer records for more than six years,  and I dont think  this makes a 
difference to the outcome of this particular case.
Having considered the evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our adjudicator and 
for broadly the same reasons. I think he set out the position  very clearly in both of his views, 
so theres very little I can usefully add to whats already been said. I realise  Mr M will be 
disappointed, so Ill explain  my reasoning.
The account information I have seen shows that in October 2012, the account 
became overdrawn  when a direct  debit was claimed amounting to £237.92.  Interest 
totalling £3.56 was then charged to the account.  Its possible that Mr M was unaware 
of the account  and the outstanding balance at this time, even though he was one of 
the named account  holders, but HSBC took no further action at this stage.
The account contact  notes show that Mr M contacted HSBC in January 2013 to 
discuss the outstanding balance  so Im satisfied  by this time Mr M knew  of the 
accounts existence, and he was also aware  of the outstanding  balance.
Ive also noted  that Mr M agreed  to repay the debt; agreeing a repayment plan and 
that on 15 January  he made his first payment  of £25. So, Im satisfied that in addition 
to knowing about the outstanding debt, Mr M also knew it needed repaying.
Mr M made  no further payments and HSBC  defaulted  the account in April 2013 
because the account  had an unauthorised overdraft for 90 days  and no further 
payment had been received.
Taking all this into account, it wasnt wrong off HSBC to default  Mr Ms account and report  
the fact to the CRAs. This is because this sum of money was owed by Mr M, and HSBC is 
obliged to report accurate information to the CRAs,  and this is what it did  the debt 
represents a picture  of the state of the account.  And the information that a bank provides to 
the credit  agencies remains on file for six years.
Ref: DRN24671653I understand Mr Ms frustration  he repaid the outstanding debt in June 2013  and he doesnt 
think its fair that what happened in 2013 affects  his credit worthiness several years later. But 
as Ive already  explained, banks are obliged to report accurate information and that is 
exactly what HSBC did. And it also updated the CRAs to confirm  the debt had been settled 
once Mr M repaid it.
Mr M says his credit report affected  his ability to get a new mortgage deal with HSBC. 
However I have to tell him that this isnt something I can look at. I say this because  a 
business is entitled to set out its own lending criteria and decide to whom it wishes to lend 
and on what terms. And because this is a commercial decision, it isnt something that this 
service would usually  get involved with.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont think  HSBC  did anything 
wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467165