K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers  Motor Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Hes being helped  with his complaint by his representative.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr R under a conditional  sale agreement with Close  Brothers 
that he electronically signed in March 2018. His representative says that the dealer arranged  
for exhaust fumes in the car to be dealt with within four to six weeks of the car being 
supplied to Mr R. The car caught fire in September 2018 and Mr R paid £1,420.66 for 
repairs. 
He complained to Close  Brothers  but it said that there was no evidence  that the fire was 
caused by a fault that was present when the car was supplied  to him. He wasnt  satisfied 
with Close  Brothers response so he complained  to this service. There were further issues 
with the car in December 2018 and Mr R paid £2,223.97 for repairs. He says that 
Close Brothers should pay him a total of £9,639.57.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that the 
evidence didnt definitively state that the issues were present or inherent at the point of sale 
so she concluded  that it was unreasonable for her to ask Close  Brothers to accept a 
rejection of the car and reimburse the repair costs.
Mr Rs representative, on his behalf,  has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an 
ombudsman. Shes  provided  a letter  from the garage which says its findings could suggest  
that the damage to the glow plug caused  the fire and was present at the time of purchase  of 
the car and she says that the car was sold with faults present.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr R. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was approximately eight and a 
half years  old, had been driven for about  133,000  miles and had a price of £5,995. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Mr Rs representative says that within the first few weeks  the car had issues  with exhaust 
fumes coming into the cabin and choking  everyone which  was extremely dangerous for 
anyone who travelled in the car. I can understand the upset  that she and Mr R feel about 
that but I the dealer  arranged for the car to be repaired. No invoice for the repairs  or other 
written evidence from the repairing garage has been  provided so its not clear what  the fault 
was or what  repairs were made. But Ive seen no evidence to show  that Mr R had any further 
issues with exhaust  fumes  so I consider it to be reasonable to conclude  that the repairs  dealt 
with that issue.
Ref: DRN20511952The car caught fire in September 2018   just over six months after it was supplied to Mr R. 
The car was repaired  and Mr R paid the garage  £1,420.66. The invoice shows that the cars 
mileage was 139,034 and the car also passed  an MOT test at that time. So Mr R had been  
able to drive about  6,000 miles in the car. There were further issues  with the car in 
December 2018  and Mr R paid £2,223.97 for repairs.  The garage said in a letter to Mr R in 
June 2019 that:
On inspection of the vehicle it was discovered that the Pressure  pipe attached to the 
DPF exhaust component  had blown off due to excess  pressure being built up within  
the DPF unit itself. This had also created  a under bonnet fire which  had also 
damaged other parts under the bonnet.  
We can confirm that from our experience and expertise that the damaged glow plug 
would have been the cause of the damage to the DPF and from our findings  this 
would suggest  that the glow plug issue had been  present for a considerable amount 
of time. Our findings did also not show any signs of current work to the glow plugs 
which could suggest  that the damage  to the glow plug was present at the time of 
purchase of the vehicle.
The car was approximately eight and a half years old and had been driven for about 133,000 
miles when  it was supplied to Mr R. There was an issue  with exhaust fumes that was 
repaired and Mr R was able to use it to drive about  6,000 miles in six months before the 
engine caught  fire when  it was being  driven by his representative. That must have been  an 
upsetting experience for her and I sympathise with her for that.
Im not persuaded that hed have been  to drive the car for 6,000 miles if there had been an 
issue with it (other than the issue with the exhaust fumes) when it was supplied to him. The 
garage says its findings could suggest that the damage to the glow plugs was present 
when the car was supplied to Mr R. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that the glow plugs were damaged  at that time  and the damage could have occurred 
during the six months and 6,000  miles that he was driving the car. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that the car engine fire was caused  by a fault that was 
present when the car was supplied  to Mr R and which caused a car that was approximately  
eight and a half years old and which had been driven for about 133,000 miles to have been 
of unsatisfactory  quality  at that time.
I consider that Close Brothers response  to Mr Rs complaint has been fair and reasonable. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require it to allow Mr R to reject the car, to reimburse him for the amount that hes claimed,  
to pay him any other compensation  or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
Ref: DRN20511953ombudsman
Ref: DRN2051195