K820x#14complaint
Mrs C on behalf of the estate of Mr C complains  about how The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) dealt with a request  that Mrs C be added to his account.
background
Mr C was terminally ill in April 2018  and his family  contacted  RBS to arrange for Mrs C to be 
added to his sole account. Mrs C says RBS told her it would arrange for someone  to visit her 
home within 72 hours but that visit didnt take place. She says RBS did get in touch with her 
on 3 May 2018  but some  hours after Mr C had passed away. Mrs C says as a result she was 
left without access to any money and for some  five months the account was frozen which  
meant mortgage payments for about  £4,000 were not made. She also says that the family 
didnt receive a call back from RBS after a call to it was cut off.
RBS says it has apologised for any mistakes  it made and the distress caused. It cant find a 
record of the call about the home visit but says its rare that it would agree to one where a 
customer was terminally ill. RBS says in those situations it would need to ensure a customer 
was capable of giving  appropriate instructions and would normally  need  medical  or legal 
evidence of that. But it accepts it didnt make  that clear and has offered £500 compensation.
RBS has apologised  for not returning the call. But it says it had no choice in freezing the 
account and its not responsible for how long the estate solicitors took to file the appropriate 
documents that meant the account could be closed.  RBS says that arrangements  could have 
been made sooner to add Mrs C to the account.
Mrs C doesnt accept  that view and brought it to us. Our adjudicator  explained that we can 
only look at the impact a businesss mistake  had on the estate and that we cant consider 
any distress that may have been caused to the executor,  as in this case. She thought it 
unlikely that Mrs C couldve  been  added to the account, taking into account Mr Cs position. 
And also thought  the level of compensation offered by RBS was fair and reasonable.
Mrs C remains  unhappy with that view and has asked that it be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  that Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision.
Its unfortunate that RBS has been unable  to trace the call made to it about the question of 
the home visit. I appreciate RBS says it rarely  offers such visits but I dont think there can be 
much doubt  that Mrs C believed it had agreed  to such  a visit. In those circumstances I agree 
with the adjudicator that RBS shouldve  been  clearer in what  it advised Mrs C and what  it 
could do, at what I accept must have been  a very difficult  time for her and her family.
I can see that Mr C sadly  passed away some days after the phone call. And I dont think  that 
even if RBS had attended his home that Mrs C couldve  been  added to her husbands 
account in that short  period. I say that as Im satisfied that Mrs C has told us that Mr C was 
terminally ill and not well enough to attend  a RBS branch. In those circumstances I dont 
think RBS wouldve been able to consider Mr Cs capability to give it instructions without 
medical or legal evidence.  I also dont think that there would  have been  sufficient  time for an 
account to be opened before Mr C passed away even if the appropriate medical or legal 
Ref: DRN23843522evidence was available and assuming it concluded Mr C was able to give the appropriate 
consent. I accept what  RBS says that the process  to add Mrs C onto the account should  
have been started  far sooner. But I have no doubt  that this was a difficult time for Mr C and 
his family  and I dont  know what his medical  position  was in early  2018.
The adjudicator has explained that we can only consider the impact  any mistakes  had on the 
estate of Mr C and not on as in this case Mrs C in her roles as executor. As I dont think  RBS 
couldve done anything  differently and I dont think Mrs C couldve been added to the 
account even  if a home visit took place. I cant fairly hold RBS responsible  for the problems 
with the mortgage payments. I can see that the estate had instructed a solicitor to deal with 
probate but the grant  of confirmation  needed to release  the money in the account wasnt  
filed until late October 2018. And I can see that RBS released  the money as soon as it 
received that document. So I cant fairly hold RBS responsible  for the delay in the account  
being closed in those circumstances. I also cant hold it responsible for any mortgage 
payments not being made.
Overall there is no question that RBS couldve handled matters far better than it did and 
been clearer in its dealings with Mrs C and her family. But I dont  think that even if it had of 
dealt with Mrs Cs request appropriately then she would have been added  to the account 
before her husband  passed away. Im satisfied  that RBSs offer of £500 compensation is fair 
and reasonable for what took place  in respect  of the incorrect information about the home 
visit. I will leave  it to Mrs C on behalf  of the estate of Mr C to decide if she wishes  to accept 
that offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) has made a fair and 
reasonable offer of £500 compensation to the estate of Mr C. Mrs C acceptance  of the offer 
on behalf of the estate  of Mr C would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2384352