K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B is complaining about  a fund switch she requested  on 16 January  2018. Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited could not make  the switch  and Mrs B says her fund value has dropped  
as a result.
background
Mrs B called Aviva on 16 January 2018  requesting a switch  of her entire holding  to the Aviva 
UK Equity Income Fund. The call handler confirmed that this would be actioned on the same  
day.
On 18 January 2018, Mrs B received an email to inform her that the fund she had requested  
on 16 January 2018  was not available for her policy. A list of funds that were available was 
attached with the email.
Mrs B then checked the risk rating of the fund and finally responded on the same day 
confirming I will keep it in this fund'.
Mrs B then called Aviva  on 8 February  2018 expressed her dissatisfaction about the 
performance of the funds  since  December 2017.
Mrs B complained to Aviva on 9 May 2018  and a contact  centre  supervisor called her back  
on 11 May 2018 to discuss  the complaint.
Aviva sent a final response letter on 14 May 2018. It didnt uphold the complaint as it said it 
cannot be held responsible for market fluctuations.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Bs complaint. She considered the complaint about 
the loss in market  value  couldnt be upheld. However, she recommended  Aviva should pay 
Mrs B £150  for the trouble and upset for loss of raised expectations as fair and reasonable 
compensation. She said: 
Aviva  had not addressed the dissatisfaction  that Mrs B had raised about the fall in 
fund value since December 2018  in her call on 8 February 2018. 
Also, Aviva  had provided misleading  information  on the call of 16 January 2018 that a 
fund switch was available. Aviva should  have checked before confirming as the 
information is available to the staff during calls. This was confirmed by the supervisor 
during his call with Mrs B. 
Aviva did not agree.  It said in an email that it would have been inclined to accept  the 
adjudicators view had there been  a significant  delay  in notifying Mrs B. However,  as the 
information was sent to Mrs B in two days with a list of alternative funds it did not agree. 
Aviva asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
As both parties have  not agreed, this complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN25309092I reviewed the file and wrote to Mrs B. I explained that Aviva did make a mistake,  but they 
corrected this within two days. I accept that was frustrating for Mrs B, but I did not think  that 
Aviva should  pay compensation. In particular, when  Mrs B was given the list of available 
funds she chose to remain invested  in the fund that she asked to switch out of, she chose to 
remain in the same fund.
Mrs B replied. She wasnt happy  with my conclusion and said that Aviva didnt carry out her 
request when they said they would. There had been  two other incidents with two of her other 
pensions. This had left her with no trust for Aviva. If there had been an issue  this could have 
made a huge  difference to her pension. The worry and concern she had been caused didnt 
seem to have been taken  into account,  only the side of Aviva.  She wanted me to consider 
her feelings  and thoughts and not just the large  company that has not agreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Aviva made a mistake when  they informed Mrs B that her funds would  be 
switched. This must be frustrating, particularly when Mrs B was concerned  about the value 
of her pension. On top of that Aviva  had made mistakes  with her other pensions.
Aviva is responsible for managing Mrs Bs pension funds. It should do so in a professional  
manner. But mistakes do happen. What I have to do is make sure that the mistake  is put 
right and decide how much compensation, if any, is appropriate.
In this case, Aviva corrected its mistake within two days. After being given details of the 
funds that were available Mrs B decided to leave her funds where they were. So, I think  it is 
reasonable to conclude  that she wouldnt have switched her funds if she had been  given the 
correct information  two days earlier. That leads me to the conclusion that there is no loss as 
Mrs B is in the position she would have been in, if Aviva had not made the mistake.
The whole point  of Mrs Bs request was to avoid  market  fluctuations.  But Aviva did correct 
that error  within two days. And when given the correct information about  the funds available 
Mrs B didnt request  a switch. So, I dont think this has caused  Mrs B enough distress and or 
inconvenience for me to make an award.
I can understand that Mrs B feels that Aviva,  as a large company, has got away with its 
mistake. It is frustrating when things  go wrong.  But that doesnt mean that Aviva  should have 
to pay compensation  for the mistake. In this case, I think  that the error has been  frustrating 
for Mrs B. But I dont think it is any more than that. Taking account of our usual approach to 
awards for distress and inconvenience  I do not think an award  of monetary compensation 
should be paid.
Ref: DRN25309093my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint that Aviva should pay Mrs B compensation for the reasons 
given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2530909