K820x#14complaint
Mr L says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  at a meeting in 2007  at the same time as taking a mortgage. He was 
employed at the time as a civil servant and had been there 17 years. Hes told us he was 
entitled to redundancy pay, six months sick pay at full pay and didnt have  any other means,  
like savings, with which to pay his mortgage  if he couldnt work. Hes also told us of health  
issues he suffered, including one with which he missed six weeks work some years  earlier.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £620 a month towards his mortgage balance  in 
the event of a successful  claim. NatWest says it cost £31.74  a month  at the time.
NatWest has sent us evidence to show the mortgage account  started  in 2007. 
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ls representative says:
NatWest failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Ls representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  NatWest should have told Mr L about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NatWest should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr L and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
Ref: DRN27497502opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NatWest, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN27497503The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so NatWest was required  to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Ls complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-Whether NatWest gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If NatWest  gave  advice, whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or damage and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
NatWest, Ive decided  not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN27497504did Mr L know he had a choice?
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr Ls mortgage application, under 
the heading Protecting your mortgage payments, said he wished to apply for Accident 
Sickness and Unemployment cover. There was a space  for him to initial instead if the cover 
was not required. Also, Mr L signed a separate application form to take the cover,  so I think 
he was aware the cover  was something  separate  from the mortgage.  His mortgage offer also 
told him he wasnt required to take any other products from NatWest  as a requirement of the 
offer, told him the PPI was optional and told him buildings insurance was the only insurance 
he had to have  as a condition of the loan.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr L knew the policy was optional and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure. 
did NatWest provide  advice?
NatWest says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr L disagrees and says NatWest told 
him having the cover was a good  idea. But I havent seen anything  from the time to suggest 
NatWest gave a personal recommendation to Mr L concerning the suitability  of the PPI for 
his circumstances.  
Also, the agreement  form Mr L signed said NatWest had explained  to me how important it is 
to have the right protection in place to ensure my family  and my home are covered should  
the unexpected happen and I have considered how my family  or I would repay  the mortgage 
should my income  stop. So it looks like NatWest intended to leave Mr L to consider whether 
or not he needed  the cover to protect  his mortgage payments should his income  stop. 
Bearing all this in mind, based on what I have  Im not persuaded that NatWest gave advice. 
This means  NatWest didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had to 
give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take the policy, including drawing to his attention  and highlighting  
in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr L was given a broad  description of what  the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is it would pay its monthly benefit  to help cover his mortgage 
payments if he were unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. 
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr L would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
the PPI application form he signed  said the monthly amount to be protected was £620  and 
his mortgage offer quoted  a monthly premium  of £31.60. His mortgage application form also 
referred to Protecting your mortgage  payments and wanting to apply for Accident Sickness 
and Unemployment.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NatWest gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr L agreed to 
take the policy. So I dont think NatWest gave  Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take the policy,  
Ref: DRN27497505including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor value   and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr L about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NatWest ought to have done  either. 
what effect did NatWests  shortcomings have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found NatWest didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mr L. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr L suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr L would have still 
taken the policy,  had NatWest done  things properly. 
Mr L says he would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, he chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude  he 
had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance. But he made his decision 
based on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought he was getting is not exactly what  
he got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining  if Mr L 
has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN27497506The information Mr L was given about  the benefit  was clear. But the information  about other 
aspects of the policy, such as the cost and the limitations and exclusions wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been.  
It doesnt appear NatWest  told Mr L the exact premium at the point he applied for the policy 
 the actual premium  was 14p more than he was quoted. Having said that, this is not 
significantly at odds  with what Mr L was told at the point of sale.  Overall, although he has 
said he was financially stretched at the time,  Im not persuaded  Mr L would have found the 
actual cost unacceptable if he had been given the correct figure during the meeting in which 
he agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment - and would  pay 
its benefit for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of the mortgage. 
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mr L had to be not only unable  to carry out his own 
job but also unable  to carry out a similar occupation he could do or could reasonably 
become qualified to do, based on his education,  training and ability .
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr L wasnt  a 
permanent employee.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  the policy  was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L was in permanent employment and the 
policy wouldnt have excluded a claim arising from any pre-existing medical condition  Mr L 
had. So, I think he still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
Also the policy  didnt exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr L 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he were  unable to carry out his own job 
- and also unable  to carry out a similar occupation  he could do or could reasonably  become 
qualified to do, based on his education,  training and ability - it might have played into his 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given him pause for thought  but, given 
his circumstances,  on balance I think he would still have been interested  in taking the cover.  
NatWest may not have  told Mr L the first 60 days of disability  or unemployment  wouldnt  be 
covered  and may not have told him any claim he made would  be limited to 12 months. All 
this may have differed from what Mr L expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months 
was longer than Mr L wouldve received full sick pay and the policy benefit wouldve been 
Ref: DRN27497507paid in addition  to his work sickness or redundancy entitlement. So I think it likely Mr L would 
have still thought a policy that after 60 days paid a benefit to help him pay his mortgage for 
up to 12 months, would be of benefit to him and help him manage the consequences if he 
couldnt work in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy  allowed for multiple 
claims to be made and the benefit  could help reduce  Mr Ls outgoings, making it less likely 
his home  would be placed at risk at what could  be a difficult and uncertain time if he were 
unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr L wouldve  still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought 
he was getting  and provided  benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  if he 
were made redundant, or became unable  to work due to the accident or sickness.  In the 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr L would have taken the policy  in any 
event, notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration,  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L wouldnt have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not he would still have taken the PPI had he 
been given clear, fair and not misleading  information about the policy  he was buying. So Im 
not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude NatWest 
Ref: DRN27497508should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he would have 
been in if everything  had happened as it should  have  done. 
Im also aware Mr L thinks NatWest misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
NatWests statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NatWest  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information NatWest gave Mr L, in the way 
it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2007 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find NatWest negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about  the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find NatWest  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2749750