K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of Mrs B that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) cancelled  her motor 
insurance policy unfairly.
background
Mrs B had a telematics policy with UKI. Mr B and their son were  named drivers on the policy.  
In September  2018 Mrs B got a letter saying it was going to be cancelled if the telematics 
device wasnt installed. Mr B called UKI and was told by an advisor that it wasnt  going to 
cancel as Mr B had contacted it. The advisor then checked and said thered been  a gap in 
getting data from the device,  but some had now been received.  Mr B took what  the advisor 
said to mean  the policy wouldnt be cancelled in similar circumstances. 
Mrs B got another letter from UKI dated 27 December 2018  saying the policy would be 
cancelled on 10 January 2019 if the device wasnt installed. As the device was installed,  
Mr and Mrs B assumed that wouldnt happen. They were shocked to get a letter  a few days 
after that date to say the policy had been  cancelled.  UKI told Mr B that emails had been sent 
to Mrs B prior to the cancellation letter.  But Mrs B hadnt received them. 
In reply to Mrs Bs complaint, UKI said three  emails  were sent to her in December 2018, as it 
hadnt received  any data from the device since 6 November 2018. It said when Mr B called 
in September  2018 the advisor suggested  he should check regularly that data was being 
sent. It said it would now be unable to offer a new policy for five years  and that the 
cancellation would have to be declared  to other  insurers
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Bs complaint. She thought  UKI had acted  
reasonably. She said it could show the emails were  sent to the right address. Although  she 
thought UKIs cancellation letter was ambiguous, she thought  it should  have  alerted  Mrs B to 
there being a problem  that needed addressing. She didnt think that in 2018 UKIs advisor 
had given Mr B reason  to think the policy wouldnt be cancelled  if a similar problem arose.     
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision upholding Mrs Bs complaint as follows:
A cancellation can have serious consequences  for a consumer, so its essential that the 
process is fair and reasonable in all respects. In this case, I dont think  the letter  UKI sent to 
Mrs B on 27 December 2018 was clear  enough.  I can see why Mr and Mrs B thought the 
message in it was that the policy would  be cancelled only if the telematics device wasnt 
installed. But it had been installed in their car from the outset.  
UKI couldnt provide copies of the emails that were sent to Mrs B in December 2018, but it 
gave us examples  of what would have been  sent. Mrs B says she didnt get the emails, but 
Im not sure it would have  made any difference if she had. UKI sent us four template copies, 
but two were the same and the fourth  would  only have been sent after the cancellation. 
One of the email templates (copied  to us twice)  said UKI thought thered been a problem 
fitting the device.  It set out the steps to fit it and said if the device wasnt  plugged in, UKI 
reserved the right to cancel. The next email said UKI hadnt received data from the device 
recently. It advised checking for a red light and if necessary re-installing the device. The 
warning about  cancellation should the device not be plugged in was given again. 
Ref: DRN27182842Mr and Mrs B knew there hadnt been a problem in fitting the device, so it didnt need  re-
installing. They knew  the device  was plugged in. Mr B has told us there was no warning light 
(although one was showing in 2018  before he first spoke to UKIs advisor).  I think  if Mrs B 
had seen the emails  she and Mr B would have assumed that  as on the previous occasion 
 there  was a blip with the signal from the device. 
The file notes show that during its investigation of Mrs Bs complaint, UKI realised the letter 
that was sent to her dated 27 December  2018  was confusing or unclear.  It said feedback 
would be provided  within UKI on the issue.
As I dont think Mrs B got clear notice of the cancellation, I dont think the cancellation was 
fair and reasonable. UKI has already  offered to write  to Mrs B saying the cancellation was 
solely related to a telematics issue. But theres no guarantee that other insurers will take no 
account of the cancellation because of that. And the cancellations effect may last longer 
than five years. Some insurers ask if a consumer has ever had a policy  cancelled.  
I think UKI should remove any record of the cancellation and write to Mrs B saying the policy 
was cancelled in error,  so she can show the letter to future insurers.  I also think  UKI should  
pay Mrs B £100 compensation for the upset and inconvenience  she faced as a result of the 
cancellation. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional view. Mrs B accepted it. UKI said that 
when Mr B called  in September 2018  he was advised to check that journeys  were being 
recorded in future. It said Mr and Mrs B didnt contact it despite the later emails  that were 
sent to them.  It also referred to a call in January 2019 in which  UKI had queried  why 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  monitor  the recordings or contact  UKI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately we werent able to listen to the call that took place in January  2019, as the 
format it was in wasnt  one we could access and UKI couldnt  provide an alternative.
Im still of the view that correspondence as important as a cancellation letter  should  be clear.  
In this case, I dont  think it was. UKI has accepted that, so I think  its very likely that the 
wording will be changed. In the meantime I think Mrs B was adversely affected by its lack of 
clarity.  I think  it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs B to assume from the wording that the 
cancellation wouldnt happen if the device was installed, which  it had been  from the start. 
As Mr and Mrs B werent aware of the emails that preceded the cancellation letter, I assume  
they explained that again to UKI during the call we havent heard.  
Mr B told the investigator that he tried to access the journey recordings after he was advised 
to do so in September 2018  but that he had difficulty doing so. In hindsight, I think  it would 
have been useful for Mr B to let UKI know about  the issue, as I think  its likely that UKI would 
have been able to assist  him. But he told us there seemed to be no further problem with the 
box  such as a further  warning light  so he didnt pursue  it.
I think it was reasonable  for Mr and Mrs B to assume that if there was any further  problem, 
UKI would contact them.  They werent aware  of the emails, and as I said in my provisional 
view, I dont think it would necessarily have made a difference if they had seen  them.    
Ref: DRN27182843As I dont think UKIs cancellation letter was clear enough, I dont  think  the cancellation was 
fair. So I think UKI should put matters right, as set out in my provisional view.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to do the 
following:
Remove any record of the cancellation  and write to Mrs B stating that the policy was 
cancelled in error
Pay Mrs B £100 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2718284