K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc:
1.didnt offer her a new interest rate product in 2009;
2.hasnt made her aware  of, or offered her, other interest rate products that she could 
have taken out since that time (until 2017); and
3.offered Mrs B a number of interest rate deals in 2017 but later said she couldnt  have 
them due to information on her credit  file. Mrs B was eventually offered a lower rate 
after complaining  to Santanders  Chief Executives office.
Mrs B wants  Santander to compensate her for the additional mortgage interest she feels  she has 
paid unnecessarily from 2009 to 2017.
background
In 2007 Mrs B took out an interest only mortgage with Santander for around £334,000  over 25 
years. The mortgage was taken out on a two year fixed  rate of 4.99%. In 2009 this product expired  
and Mrs Bs mortgage reverted to Santanders SVR, which was 4.24% at the time.
Mrs B said she asked  for a new rate in 2009 but was told nothing was available.  She thought  this 
was because she had an interest only mortgage that shed taken out on a self-certified basis. Mrs 
Bs said she assumed  she wouldnt be eligible for another interest rate product after that.
In 2017 Mrs B told Santander  she was thinking of moving house because  she was struggling to 
meet her mortgage  payments.  Santander said she might be able to take out a new interest rate 
product which  could make her mortgage  more affordable.  Mrs B decided  to apply for a new interest 
rate product  with Santander on her existing mortgage, rather than move. When  Mrs B tried to apply 
for a new product a couple of weeks later, she was told the product was no longer available  to her 
because of her credit  file. Mrs B complained and eventually  Santander  offered her a new rate of 
2.99%.
Mrs B accepted the offer but she isnt happy  with the interest  shes paid on her mortgage since  
2009. Shes also unhappy that she had to struggle to get a new product in 2017.  
Santanders issued  four responses to Mrs Bs concerns on 2 October  2017,  24 October 2017, 22 
November 2017  and 30 November 2017.  To summarise, Santander hasnt upheld Mrs Bs 
complaint. Santanders  said it was Mrs Bs responsibility to ask what  interest rates  might  have 
been available to her since 2009. And although  it initially declined  a new product  in 2017, it has 
now offered Mrs B an interest  rate product of 2.99%, as an exception and a goodwill gesture. Mrs 
B remained unhappy and brought her complaint  to us.
Santander didnt  give its consent for us to look at the first part of Mrs Bs complaint  about it not 
making a new product  available in 2009.  It said that, according to our rules, Mrs B has brought this 
issue to us out of time. I issued a jurisdiction  decision setting out why we couldnt look at the first 
part of Mrs Bs complaint  about Santander not making another rate available to her in 2009. I 
agreed with our investigator that this part of her complaint had been  made  out of time. 
Our investigator went on to investigate  the other parts of her complaint that we were able to look 
at. He didnt think  Mrs Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mrs B replied to say, in summary:
Ref: DRN22778082-she considers herself to have been a mortgage  rate prisoner, trapped on high interest  
rates; 
-she doesnt think banks can take past credit history of mortgage customers  into account  
when deciding to make new interest rate deals  available to them; and
-how can Santander this it is fair that someone  who has had payment difficulties (largely  due 
to being charged  an unnecessarily high rate of interest)  can be helped  by keeping  them  on 
a high interest rate?
Mrs B asked that an ombudsman look at her complaint again and reach a final decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
is it unfair that Santander didnt offer Mrs B a new interest rate product sooner?
Part of Mrs Bs complaint is that Santander has treated her unfairly by applying  its SVR to 
her mortgage for years. Mrs B suspects that there  may have been  other  interest rate 
products available to her and that Santander  should have told her about this sooner. If it had 
Mrs B thinks  she could  have saved a lot of interest.
Where a mortgage has an initial interest rate  whether fixed  or tracker  for a limited  period, 
it reverts to the standard variable rate (SVR) at the end of that period. Thats set out in the 
mortgage offer, and its how the mortgage is supposed to work.  Based purely  on the terms of 
the mortgage offer, nothing has gone  wrong  if the mortgage reverts  to the SVR at the end of 
the product period.
However, most lenders will consider applications  for a new interest  rate product when an old 
one expires. A new interest rate, at any particular level or at all, isnt a contractual right. The 
borrower isnt entitled to one. Mrs B has said she asked for a new rate in 2009 but there 
wasnt one available  at the time.
It seems  Mrs B didnt talk to Santander  about her mortgage or ask about any other  interest 
rate deals from 2009 to 2017.  Mrs Bs said this was because she got the impression from 
Santander that she wouldnt be eligible for further  interest rate products because she had an 
interest only mortgage and shed self-certified  her income when she took out the mortgage. I 
dont doubt that this is what Mrs B thought after speaking with Santander  in 2009 but theres  
no other evidence  that supports Santander told her that.
Ive looked at the written communication between Santander and Mrs B following the expiry 
of her fixed rate in 2009 and when  she was told about other interest  rate products in 2017. 
Mrs Bs been sent annual  mortgage statements about her mortgage. Ive looked at a sample  
of the annual mortgage statements sent to her. The mortgage statements make  it clear that 
Mrs Bs mortgage is on Santanders  SVR and they record what that rate has been 
throughout the year. To be clear, Mrs B hasnt argued that she was unaware she was on the 
SVR. Mrs Bs complained  that she didnt know she could be eligible for any other products 
until 2017.
Ref: DRN22778083Santander has provided a sample  of the wording it sent to customers  with their 2010 
mortgage statement. Mrs B would have received this soon after she was turned down for a 
new interest rate product  in 2009.  There is a section  called Changing your mortgage deal, 
moving home or borrowing more.  It says:
If your current  mortgage deal is coming  to an end, or youre paying the Standard Variable 
Rate, you can call our team of mortgage  specialists who will be happy to discuss  the options 
available to you The process of switching to a new product is quick  and easy.  There are 
no new direct debits  to set up, and no legal or valuation  fees-  it could save you time and 
money.
Theres very similar wording in the annual statements sent to Mrs B in other years.  It seems  
to me that Santander did let Mrs B know  each  year what rate she was paying  on her 
mortgage and that she could get in touch if she wanted to apply for another interest rate 
deal. 
Mrs B didnt ask Santander about new products. Shes told us this was because she 
assumed that she wouldnt  be eligible because of the sort of mortgage she had. Im not 
certain at what point Mrs B had become eligible  for other interest rate products. However, in 
any event, I dont think Santander had a duty to tell Mrs B when she had become eligible  for 
a new interest rate product.  Im satisfied that it was for Mrs B to apply for such a deal if she 
was interested,  as the mortgage account  holder. I think she was able to ask her mortgage 
lender if a new interest rate product  was available to her. 
If Mrs B was unhappy that no rates were available she could have sought out a more  
competitive mortgage  deal with another lender without a contractual  barrier to prevent her 
moving elsewhere, like an early repayment charge.  
Overall, I dont  think it would be fair to hold Santander responsible for Mrs Bs decision not to 
apply for any other interest rate products from 2009 to 2017.
Mrs Bs application for a new rate in 2017
Im pleased that when  Santander reviewed Mrs Bs mortgage arrangements  in a branch in 
2017 she was told there  may be lower interest rate products that could save  her money on 
her mortgage payments.  I consider this to be good customer  service and a genuine attempt 
to save Mrs B money. That said, I dont think this means Santander failed in a duty to Mrs B 
by not pointing out such a potential saving sooner. 
Mrs B says she was told in the branch  that she may be able to save  £600  per month on her 
mortgage payments.  When she rang the number  given  to enquire further, Mrs B was told 
she may be able to save £400 per month.  I can see why Mrs B would have been  a bit 
disappointed that the cost saving wasnt as much as shed previously  been  told but still this 
was a significantly lower  amount  for her to meet each  month.
Mrs Bs said she was then told she didnt meet Santanders eligibility criteria for the product. 
Santander said this was because there were recent missed  payments with other lenders 
recorded on a live feed  from Mrs Bs credit file. It said Mrs B wasnt able to take out the rate 
after all. Mrs B told Santander she hadnt missed  any payments on other borrowing. She got 
a copy of her credit  file and shared this with Santander. Santander went on to offer Mrs B an 
interest rate product  of 2.99% as a goodwill gesture and Mrs B accepted the offer.
Ref: DRN22778084Where a lender  makes rates available, it must  treat its customers  fairly  in deciding whether 
they can or cant have  a new interest  rate. If I thought Santander  hadnt  acted  fairly  when it 
declined to give Mrs B a rate, Id ask it to honour  that rate now to put things right. It isnt clear 
to me exactly what happened at the time Mrs B applied for the rate. Weve looked at all the 
evidence available  but it hasnt conclusively shown that Santander was at fault.  I dont think 
it is unreasonable that Santander has eligibility criteria to determine what  rates  are available 
to  its customers. I also dont think its unfair that it looks at a consumers creditworthiness  
through a live feed to a credit file as part of this assessment. 
Whatever happened at the time,  Santander offered Mrs B the 2.99% product on her 
mortgage, and she has accepted it.
I can see why Mrs B remains  unhappy.  She needed to pursue her complaint with Santander 
to get access to what she considers to be a fair rate of interest on her mortgage. I appreciate 
she feels it has been a struggle  for her to achieve  this and I dont underestimate  how 
strongly Mrs B feels about her complaint. 
However, having thought carefully  about  the wider  circumstances  of this complaint, I think  
Santanders decision to honour the interest rate Mrs B was applying for is fair and 
reasonable to settle the matter. I make no further  award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2277808