K820x#14complaint
Miss V is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society emailed details of their Annual  General 
Meeting (AGM) to her work email address.
background
Miss V had given her work  email  address as her personal contact details  as part of a 
mortgage application she made  (through  a subsidiary of Nationwide) in 2010. But shed  told 
Nationwide that shed prefer to be contacted by post.
Miss V has complained  that Nationwide sent details of their 2019 AGM by email,  when  shed 
normally received  this information  by post.  She feels AGM notices  are statutory notices, not 
marketing. Because  of this she feels that Nationwide have breached data protection  
regulations by using her email address for this purpose.  Shes  also unhappy with how she 
was treated when  she phoned Nationwide to complain about  this.
Our investigator thought that Nationwide  hadnt  acted outside  of the declaration  Miss V 
signed as part of her mortgage application, and they were using the email shed provided for 
the purposes shed  provided it for. He did think that Nationwide couldve handled the 
complaint call better, but he thought the £50 theyd paid Miss V was a reasonable apology  
for this call. So he didnt think they should  do anything more.
Miss V didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the declaration she signed  in 2010 
didnt give Nationwide  the right to contact  her as a member of Nationwide to tell me of 
AGMs. She feels that data protection regulations requires  Nationwide  to only keep personal 
information for a reasonable period, and only use it for the purpose they got it for, and they 
didnt do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Its not disputed  that Miss V gave  her work  email  address as her personal  contact  details 
when she applied for a mortgage  in 2010,  through  a Nationwide  subsidiary  company. And 
because Miss V remains a customer/member of Nationwide, I think its reasonable theyve 
kept her personal  contact  details on file  Id only expect them to delete this if specifically 
asked or if Miss V was no longer a customer/member.
The declaration Miss V signed confirmed the third party company were a member of the 
Nationwide Building  Society Group. This declaration also said Miss Vs personal information 
could be used for various purposes,  including marketing and market research and general 
business purposes.
Miss V doesnt think that AGM notices fall under  marketing, while  Nationwide  believe they 
do. While  its not my role to decide  whether AGM notices are or arent marketing,  Im 
satisfied Nationwide  were  able to contact Miss V for general business purposes,  and the 
declaration Miss V signed  in 2010  would allow Nationwide  to use the email address she 
provided for this purpose.
Ref: DRN24105202But Miss V had told Nationwide she preferred to receive AGM information by post,  and they 
were sending this information  by post until 2018.  
Ive seen that, in February 2019,  Nationwide emailed  Miss V about their commitment  to go 
paperless. They told her they were  going to start sending out AGM information by email.  
They also said they would assume she agreed  to this unless she objected within 28 days  
they provided a link for her to click if she wanted to object to the change  and continue to 
receive AGM information by post.
Just because a customer expresses  a preference as to how they wish to be contacted,  this 
doesnt mean a financial  business  cant contact them by another method when alternative  
contact details have  been given. So I dont  think  Nationwide did anything wrong by emailing 
Miss V in February 2019  they contacted her on an email address shed given as her 
personal contact details, a change to paperless  communications would class as general  
business purposes, and they had authority to contact her for this reason.
Nationwide gave Miss V the opportunity and means to object  to a change  to paperless, and 
to request the AGM information was still sent by post. But she didnt do so. So Nationwide  
acted reasonably by sending  the 2019  AGM information by email  Miss V had given 
assumed consent  for them to do so. But, as Miss V has now objected  to this and asked 
Nationwide to remove her email address, if they havent already, Id expect Nationwide  to 
send all future correspondence by post, and remove her email address from their system.
Ive also listened  to the call that took place on 18 April 2019. I agree that this call couldve 
been handled better. The agent took down Miss Vs surname and post code details 
incorrectly more than once, and Miss V had to repeat herself. The agent also referred to 
Miss V as having  internet  banking products she didnt  have.  This was clearly very frustrating  
for Miss V. But Nationwide have already compensated Miss V with £50 for the impact  of the 
service she received on this call, and I think this was reasonable. So I wont  be asking them  
to pay anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Vs complaint about  Nationwide  
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss V to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February  2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2410520