K822xcomplaint
Mr F is unhappy  with the time that it has taken Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  to 
complete the transfer of his holdings  to a third party (IWEB). He says hes suffered a 
financial loss as a result. Hes also unhappy about  the poor service he has received.  
background 
Mr F said that he first instructed Barclays to transfer  his holdings in July 2017. Whilst most  of 
his holdings were  transferred  in September 2017,  not all of was. Barclays says this was 
because of a reverse takeover  announced in July 2017. It wasnt  until September  2018 these 
holdings were finally transferred  Mr F says at considerable financial loss to him. 
Barclays partially upheld  the complaint. It offered Mr F £250 compensation for the delays 
and the poor service.  However, it said Mr F could  still trade and t didnt accept that it was 
responsible for any loss. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but thought it should be partially  upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
In September  2017, Barclays couldnt process  the transfer because of corporate 
action. 
In January 2018, the corporate  action came to an end so Barclays was responsible 
for the delay  beyond  this point. However this delay  didnt prevent Mr F from trading 
during this period. 
There was no evidence that Mr F had instructed Barclays  to trade shares  or that 
Barclays had failed  to carry  out his instructions. So Barclays  wasnt responsible for 
any loss in value  in the stocks by September 2018. 
£350 compensation was suitable in the circumstances taking into account  the extent 
of the delays and the poor service.  
Barclays accepted  the increased level of compensation proposed by the adjudicator.  Mr F 
disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. In summary, he said:
It was clear that Barclays was unable  to carry out instructions as it prematurely 
closed his ISA in 2017. Reinstatement  was necessary before instructions could be 
enacted. It was Barclays who indicated he ask IWEB  to make a new application
When he rang on 24 January 2018 Barclays was unaware of the readmission of 
these shares and could find no trace of Cradle Arc Shares (CAS) in their systems 
whatsoever.
After his telephone conversation with Barclays on 29 January 2018  he passed  their 
instructions to IWEB who made a transfer request on the 29 January 2018 but 
Barclays were  still unable to give any clarification regarding his account.
Despite five attempts  by IWEB during the next four weeks nothing  happened. It was 
during a conversation with Barclays Smart Investor in March  that it was conceded  
that his ISA was cancelled  in 2017, after the transfer of the bulk of funds to IWEB. 
The course available was to reinstate his ISA, to allow the final transfer to take place. 
Despite receiving regular contact from IWEB and himself  his ISA hadnt  been 
reinstated. The first indication of movement was when he was told in 27 September 
2018 that the CAS had been  added to his account.
Ref: DRN26789612He has written evidence from IWEB that it chased Barclays 24 times between the 6 
February and the 27 July to comply with the transfer request without success.  The 
transfer was only completed after he referred  his complaint to this service.
Despite receiving a new passcode he was unable to access his account online 
presumably due to the premature cancellation and lack of reinstatement  of his ISA
As the transfer  occurred on 28 September 2018  when CASs  share  price  had 
deteriorated to 0.0145p his net loss was therefore £2,038.
Its clear that Barclays wouldve failed to carry out any instructions until his ISA was 
reinstated. He asks for the real reason why it took 9 months to complete the transfer. 
The fact IWEB contacted Barclays 24 times without  reply  is also a real concern.
He made  a serious and tangible loss due to Barclays's maladministration. He fails to 
see why Barclays should avoid  liability for this. It was his intention  to immediately sell 
23573 CAS on readmission and reinvest in AstraZeneca which  was already in his 
portfolio. 
The adjudicator  was aware  that any purchase  would  have to be effected  by IWEB as 
they now controlled his ISA.
When Mr F rang on 29 January  2018 to sell/transfer the shares he was told about 
administrative difficulties and it was suggested he ask IWEB to resubmit  the transfer 
request. Selling the shares thereafter  was never an option in view of Barclays  
request for IWEB to issue a fresh application which they did on the 29 January 2018.
Mr F challenged the assumption  that transferring CAS was outside Barclays control.
Its accepted the shares couldnt  be transferred in September 2017 due to 
suspension but from 24 January 2018  the position  changed. The value shares  were  
held by Barclays and it was in their power  to either  sell or transfer them  to IWEB  
provided they reinstated his ISA to do so. They failed to do so and this is why he 
suffered major loss.
There is clear  evidence  that until his ISA was reinstated no Barclays  staff were  able 
to deal with any request.
On the 29 January  2018 the lowest Bid price for CAS was 10.8p which would  have 
realized £2,545 sufficient to purchase 50 AstraZeneca at the then offer price  of 
5090p. Since then this share  has traded between 4554p and 6432p and currently is 
around 6000p.
£350 compensation is totally  unacceptable. But hes prepared  to reduce his original  
claim from £5,000 to nearer £2,000 to help to achieve a sensible conclusion.
The adjudicator having considered the additional  points wasnt  persuaded to change  his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Although Barclays had a record of Mr F contacting it on 29 January 2018  this was to 
chase the progress of the transfer  request and during  that call he gave no indication  
that he wanted to sell 23,573 AstraZeneca shares immediately or of him giving such  
an instruction or attempting to do so. The adjudicator therefore felt unable  to hold 
Barclays responsible  for the losses Mr F was claiming.
He understood  why Mr F felt that selling the CAS was never  an option but said that 
this didnt mean he couldnt have  made  Barclays aware of his intention. 
He also said that whilst it may have been  outside Barclays  control to transfer the 
CAS between September 2017  and 24 January 2018 it was in its power to sell the 
shares on his instruction  or transfer  them to IWEB after these dates. 
Ref: DRN26789613The adjudicator said that other than his and IWEBs continued chasers there  was no 
evidence of him attempting to instruct Barclays to sell the CAS. So, without evidence of this 
the adjudicator  was unable to change his view.  
Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators response and made the following points:
He believes that he incurred a financial loss on 23573 CAS after the total failure  of 
Barclays to carry out clear written instructions dated  the 29 January 2018 to transfer  
these shares to IWEB. 
Barclays initial switch to "Smart Investor" was an administrative  and technological 
disaster and he finds it inconceivable that the adjudicator accepted  Barclays  poor 
excuse that the shares couldve been  sold if instructed. This is contrary to the facts 
that Barclays staff would not or could not exercise any instruction until his ISA was 
reinstated following its premature cancellation  in 2017. It was after his persistence  
that Barclays acknowledged this in early  March 2018. 
Hes disappointed that the adjudicator didnt ask for a transcript  of that conversation 
which wouldve exposed Barclays excuse and wouldve  shown that no action could 
be taken until reinstatement  of the cancelled ISA. 
The adjudicator  also ignored his request for a copy  of the transcript and that he didnt 
thoroughly investigate the reasons  why it took approximately  9 months  for Barclays  
to transfer the shares to IWEB.
The adjudicator  also ignored the fact that his ISA was transferred to IWEB in 
September 2017, so any future  dealings  could only be through IWEB. Hence the 
reason why he was requesting an immediate transfer of the stock.
The first reference to selling or reinvestment  with Barclays came  from the 
adjudicator. He only gave an indication of his thoughts on likely selling and 
reinvestment in alternative shares  but this was irrelevant. Barclays  had already 
transferred his ISA to IWEB who were now responsible for all sales,  purchases and 
amendments to his ISA.
Within 3 working days of reinstatement of CAS both verbal  and written  instructions 
were given  to Barclays on the 29 January 2018 to transfer 23573  shares  to IWEB 
which they failed  to do until 9 months  later and then only after intervention  from our 
service. 
The value of the shares  on reinstatement  was 10p (£2,357.30)  which reduced to 
£388.95 when  transferred thus creating a loss of £1968.35. As previously indicated, 
this should be in addition to the £350  already offered  for distress and inconvenience 
caused but he is prepared to accept  a total of £2,000 in full and final settlement.
Barclays provided a summary of the telephone calls that Mr F had made  to it and stated the 
following:
At no point did it tell him that the shares werent  held. 
It recognizes that Mr F feels he missed  out on these shares and being  able to sell 
them; but he didnt  discuss trading  with them. 
On 3 April 2018 on seeing the closing status  he was advised if he opted to trade  
Barclays could reopen the account  for him but Mr F was more concerned with getting 
the shares transferred. 
The last call explicitly told Mr F that the account  appears  as a closure status but this 
wouldnt have impacted the transfer  request as there were shares in the account.
At no point would it have told Mr F that the shares  were  not held on there.
Ref: DRN26789614Mr F asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  As no agreement has been  reached,  the matter 
has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to partially  uphold  this complaint. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note 
I recognise Mr Fs strength  of feeling  about  this matter.
 
Mr F has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr F and Barclays, and reach what I think  is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.  Im considering 
the complaint  only against Barclays and not any third party  business. 
What seems to be at the heart of this complaint is whether or not Barclays prevented  Mr F 
from trading - thereby causing him a financial loss. I note Mr F suggests  its the one central 
issue they disagree on. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr F says,  I unable to safely say 
that he wasnt able to trade when he wanted  to. 
The primary reason for this is that Ive not seen any evidence that persuades  me that Mr F 
wished to trade when  he says he did, or that Barclays prevented him from doing so. Despite 
what Mr F may, or may not have intended to do, I havent seen that this was communicated 
to Barclays. So as far as I can see Barclays wasnt even aware. 
I dont think it was sufficient for Mr F to conclude that Barclays  wouldnt have been able to 
trade when  he didnt even ask. I note the Barclays have suggested that it wouldve been able 
to trade. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the issue  isnt whether the Barclays  could trade or not, it is 
whether or not it stopped  Mr F from doing  so  by virtue of failing to carry out his instructions.  
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont think it did - even if it needed to reinstate the 
ISA following  its premature cancellation. I note Barclays  maintains on 3 April 2018  in 
reference to the closing  status Mr F was advised if he opted to trade Barclays  could reopen  
the account for him but Mr F was more concerned with getting  the shares transferred. And 
even though the account appears  as a closure status, this wouldnt have impacted the 
transfer request  as there were shares in the account.
Ref: DRN26789615Im mindful that Mr F accepts that he cant categorically say that he let Barclays know that he 
wanted to trade therefore I dont agree that Barclays has caused  him the financial  loss he 
claims. 
I agree  that the initial transition to the Smart  Investor wasnt smooth  and it caused Mr F a 
deal of trouble  and upset. In this instance I think the £350 compensation proposed  by the 
adjudicator is broadly  fair and reasonable. I note that the bulk of the delays were down to 
corporate action  which I cant really hold Barclays responsible for. 
I appreciate Mr F will be unhappy Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.
But on the face of the available evidence, Im unable  to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partially uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr F £350 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2678961