K822xcomplaint
N, a limited company,  complains that Cynergy Bank  Limited  increased  the interest margin  on 
its loan without negotiation or agreement.
background 
N had existing borrowing  with Cynergy Bank on overdraft and loan. In January 2009  
Cynergy Bank wrote to N to say it was going  to be increasing the interest margin  on its 
borrowing. Cynergy later undertook a review of that past pricing decision. It told N in August 
2018 that there was insufficient  evidence that N had agreed to the re-pricing  of the overdraft  
borrowing. But it said that because there  had been discussions about borrowing by 
connected parties to N at the time it reasonably knew and had agreed to the repricing of the 
loan. It refunded the additional interest  paid on the overdraft plus simple  interest  at eight per 
cent per annum.
N did not agree with the different treatment of the loan and said that it was a separate  legal 
entity and that negotiations about other facilities by different  borrowers were not relevant.
Our investigator said that she thought  the first time N became aware  it had cause to 
complain was when  it received  the letters about redress.  And so the complaint had been 
referred within our time limit of three years from the date when  N it found  out. She 
recommended that redress be paid for the loan in the same  way as the overdraft. She 
couldnt see a basis for treating the facilities differently. And there was insufficient evidence  
about any discussion with N about  the interest rate on the loan at the time the director  took 
borrowing in her own name and that of another party. It was not fair to assume  that because 
the director had taken that borrowing at a similar rate it could be said that she had also 
agreed to the repricing  of Ns loan.
Cynergy Bank did not agree.  It said that it had used  its discretion when deciding to refund  
the overdraft interest only and could have decided not to. It also said that the director knew 
about the repricing given  the discussions in relation to her own borrowing at a rate she 
accepted as fair and because N had guaranteed  such borrowing in the past. It also said that 
because she had a personal connection with a former member of staff this complaint is 
vexatious.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first say that I agree with what our investigators said about our jurisdiction to look into 
this complaint for the reasons shes given.
Ive looked at the letter dated 30 August 2018  that Cynergy Bank sent to N about the 
redress. The reasoning  given for the overdraft interest being refunded as it was said to be 
re-priced unfairly was:
There is insufficient evidence that you formally  agreed to the re-pricing  or that adequate  
discussions were held with you in this regard.
Ref: DRN20587812And the reasoning for the loan interest  not being  refunded as it was said to be re-priced fairly 
was 
The Bank  has completed its review  and deemed  that the re-pricing  of this account in 2008 
to 2009 was fair because there  is evidence  of a negotiation having taken place between you 
and the Bank.  It also said that this was because available  documentation shows  the 
repricing of this account occurred at a similar time to a negotiation between  you and the 
Bank in respect  of one your connected accounts.
When N asked Cynergy  Bank  for that evidence it referred to the facility taken out by the 
director of N and another in March 2009.
I note that a loan for N of £290,000 was taken out in July 2008  and had a 24 month term. It 
was subject to the general terms and conditions set by Cynergy  Bank. While condition  4 
allowed for a change in interest margin that was generally only after 36 months  (4.4) and 
otherwise relating to a change in market conditions (4.5). In January 2009  it wrote to N about 
the interest margin and said that the loan margin  would be increased from 1.75% to 2.5% on 
9 February 2009.
On 3 March 2009 it issued  a facility letter to the director and another  party  for a loan of 
£68,000 at an interest  margin of 3%. And then in June  2009 for a further loan which theyd  
said they wanted at a similar rate.
my assessment
I am struggling to see the logic for Cynergy  Bank applying  what I see to be different 
reasoning for its treatment  of Ns overdraft and borrowing by loan. And I also think  that its 
fair that it now be held to the same basis for the assessment set out in the letter about the 
redress. It didnt for example then say that it had applied its discretion to one type of 
borrowing and not the other and why it had done  that.
In any event I find the evidence about  any discussion about the loan repricing tenuous. 
There is no direct evidence  I can see of any negotiation around the change in interest  on the 
original loan for N. The director and another party agreeing further  borrowing at a not 
dissimilar rate doesnt in my view establish  anything as far as N is concerned. The test in the 
redress letter above for the overdraft was whether N had formally  agreed or there had been 
adequate discussion. When I apply this to the loan I cannot see that it has been met. And I 
also find that using  the directors personal connection with a member of bank staff at the 
time to infer that she must have  known and agreed to the change  for N to be equally 
unfounded. And thats especially when Cynergy  Bank says that there were processes  in 
place to prevent  a conflict of interest  given  that known connection.
I dont doubt that as Cynergy Bank says it looked  at the overall connection when reviewing 
its exposure. But it also offered different terms at different times to legally distinct parts of the 
connection. Its not satisfied me that the change in the margin  on the loan for N was dealt 
with fairly  based  on my reasons  above.  So Im going to endorse  the recommendation of the 
investigator.
Ref: DRN20587813my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Cynergy Bank Limited  to: 
1)Refund the overpayment of interest  on the loan as a result  of the re-pricing in 2009 
applying the same  calculation basis as for the redress of the overdraft interest.
2)Pay simple interest  of eight per cent per annum  on each overpayment of interest 
from the date it was made  to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2058781