K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his credit card account without telling him 
why. He wants the bank to compensate  him for this. 
background
In March 2019 Lloyds wrote  to Mr R saying it would be closing  his credit card account.  He 
wasnt happy with this and complained to the bank. Lloyds replied saying that the account 
was being closed for commercial reasons, as allowed by its terms and conditions. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this and asked our service  to look into his complaint. One of our 
investigators looked into this for Mr R. She didnt think  it should  be upheld. In brief,  the 
investigator said she didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly as it had closed the account in 
line with the relevant terms  and conditions. 
Mr R didnt accept this. He said he wanted  to see the information Lloyds had used when 
deciding to close his account. As Mr R didnt agree with our investigator,  his complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that Lloyds decided to close his credit card account without 
giving him an explanation  for this. I would  point out here that where a bank has legitimately 
closed an account,  giving  the appropriate notice period, its under no obligation,  regulatory  or 
otherwise, to explain why. So what I need to decide is if Lloyds did legitimately close the 
account? 
Ive looked at the notice  of closure  letter  Lloyds sent to Mr R. Its dated 12 March 2019. It 
says this account will be closed in just over two months time.  This is more than the minimum 
notice period required by the account  terms and conditions. 
I can see that Lloyds  sent another letter dated  22 May 2019  confirming  the account had 
been closed. This was 71 days  after the date of the notice of closure letter. Again,  this is 
more than the minimum notice period required. 
So, Im satisfied Lloyds  did legitimately close Mr Rs credit account by giving him sufficient 
notice of the closure in line with the account terms and conditions. As, above,  in these 
circumstances there  is no requirement  for the bank to give an explanation to Mr R for this. It 
follows that I dont  think Lloyds has done  anything  wrong here. 
But in an effort to help Mr R, I would  make the following observations. Around  the time 
Lloyds made  the decision  to close  Mr Rs account, I can see his account was backed by two 
of the major credit card scheme  operators. But I understand one of the scheme operators 
made a decision  to withdraw from this market throughout Europe. So the bank needed to 
close the accounts connected  with this particular operator. 
Ref: DRN26361102Lloyds took this opportunity to review Mr Rs account to see if it could offer him an 
alternative. It then made to a commercial decision to close  his account  as it didnt want  to 
continue providing  this credit facility  to Mr R. 
A banks  lending criteria  is commercially sensitive. Its not available  to the public. But its 
likely to include such things as reviewing  a potential borrowers income,  account  usage and 
previous credit history. I would point out to Mr R here, that even where  a borrower hasnt  
missed any payments on an account, it doesnt  automatically mean  a lender must continue 
to offer a credit facility. There will be numerous other  areas  that could lead to a refusal  of 
credit. 
Its for individual lenders  to decide  to whom, and on what terms, theyre prepared to offer 
credit. Our service wont usually interfere with a businesss commercial  judgement  where its 
been exercised  fairly and reasonably. In the circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied theres 
no reason for me to interfere with Lloyds decision to close Mr Rs account. 
I know Mr R thinks  his age may have played  a part in the banks decision to close his 
account. But Lloyds  has categorically denied this is the case. Having looked at all the 
available evidence, I accept this. 
Finally, Mr R has intimated that there are difficulties  in making  the payments on his closed 
account. If thats the case, I would urge him to speak to Lloyds Customer Support  Unit to 
see what support it can offer him. I would  also remind the bank of its obligation to treat Mr R 
positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2636110