K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about how The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) has used the 
compensation due for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which  was 
attached to his credit  card.
background
In February 2004  Mr B took out a credit card with RBS and at the same  time also took out a 
PPI policy  attached to the card. Mr B has now complained he was mis-sold  the PPI and RBS 
agreed to uphold his complaint. 
RBS worked out how much Mr B had been  charged for the PPI, the premiums being added  
to the credit  card and some interest  then being caused by the premiums.  In total RBS said 
Mr B had been charged £400.90 for the PPI. RBS refunded this amount to Mr Bs credit card 
account. But as Mr B had defaulted on his credit card repayments and owed a debt on the 
card of £772.06, there was nothing paid directly  to him. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with what RBS had done and said he should be paid back the costs of 
the PPI directly and RBS couldnt set it against  the debt on the card. He said the money  for 
the PPI was compensation and RBS couldnt use any right of set-off  for compensation to be 
set against old debts. 
RBS didnt agree so Mr B brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator  said what 
RBS had done was fair. But Mr B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
He also said he thought the credit  card debt had formed part of a debt management plan he 
had entered and if anything had still been owed  for the credit card it had been written  off 
when that plan ended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As RBS has offered  to settle the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold I havent  considered  
how the policy came to be sold to Mr B. Ive only looked at the compensation related to the 
PPI and what RBS has done with this.
Mr B took out a credit card in early 2004,  the first statement being in March 2004. Looking  at 
the card statement history it seems Mr B opened  the account with a balance  of £3,600 and 
had a period of 0% rate interest  for 9 months.  PPI was added  each month  to the balance  on 
the card from March 2004 to March 2005.  
By March 2005 Mr B had failed to make  three  consecutive repayments to the card and the 
PPI was cancelled.  RBS has told us the card was defaulted on at the end of 2005. By 
February 2006 the interest charged  on the card balance  was stopped and no further interest  
was ever charged. At this time the account had a balance  of £3,424.62. 
A total of £348.87 was added to Mr Bs credit card for PPI premiums.  Interest  at the card 
rate, caused  by this PPI being in the balance,  was £52.03. So in total the PPI cost was 
Ref: DRN22911112£400.90 and this formed part of the balance on Mr Bs credit card when  he defaulted on 
payments to the card in 2005/2006.
RBS offered to settle Mr Bs complaint the PPI was mis-sold and pay him compensation. 
When a business  pays compensation  of this sort we expect the full costs of the PPI to form 
part of the amount and where  a consumer is out of pocket  for the costs  of the PPI some  
compensatory interest  is added. 
In this case Mr B has never  paid the costs of the PPI as it remained part of the credit card 
debt and as he had never cleared the balance he was never out of pocket. So RBS offer, 
made in February  2018, was for the actual  costs of the PPI only.
When working out compensation for PPI sold with credit cards,  the cost of the PPI can be 
deemed the last amount to be paid off the balance.  This is because it is beneficial  to the 
customer to receive card rate interest when the PPI forms part of the balance. 
Mr B signed  an acceptance  of the offer made by RBS on 13 March  2018. But he never 
received the payment of the £400.90 compensation offered. He says he wrote to RBS in 
April and May 2018 to chase the payment and was very unhappy when RBS responded in 
June 2018 to say the compensation had been paid against the credit card debt. He believes 
the compensation should all be paid directly to him. 
RBS has told us it cannot trace a letter from Mr B in April 2018, but did respond  to his letter 
of May 2018  within four weeks. But it also felt Mr B should have been aware his 
compensation would be used against  the credit  card debt as this had been  indicated in the 
offer letter and on the acceptance he signed.
Mr B is very unhappy as he says he is entitled to have the PPI compensation paid to him 
and RBS cannot use any right of set-off  with compensation. Banks do have a right of set-off, 
to set a debt it owes a customer  against  a debt the customer owes the bank. These rights do 
have some restrictions, the main one being that they must  be closely connected  debts. In the 
circumstances of this particular case the PPI was directly associated with the credit  card 
which Mr B has a debt on. And the compensation  is a debt RBS owes  to Mr B. So there 
would be nothing wrong in RBS setting  off one debt against the other in this way.
But also looking at the account statements, it seems Mr B never  actually paid for the PPI that 
was added to his credit card balance. The premiums and interest for the PPI were  charged 
to the card account,  so in effect Mr B borrowed the costs of the PPI and they became part of 
the account balance. 
As Mr B never cleared  the balance he never repaid the costs of the PPI, so part of what  he 
owes to RBS on his credit card debt was for the PPI costs. So paying the compensation to 
the credit  card account effectively removes from the credit card balance  everything ever 
charged for the PPI.
In any event, if RBS did pay the compensation directly to Mr B , hed be receiving 
compensation for PPI premiums which he never actually paid. And I dont think that would be 
fair.
I also think Mr B was made aware  of what RBS was going  to do with the compensation when 
it made its offer to him. Mr B signed an acceptance form for the PPI compensation. This 
clearly stated both in the covering offer letter and in the section immediately above the 
Ref: DRN22911113signature line of the acceptance, that the offer would take into account any arrears on the 
credit card balance.
Mr B has said at some point he entered a debt management plan and he thought  this credit 
card debt had formed part of that arrangement  and been cleared or written  off. However he 
has not provided anything to support  this. RBS has checked its records  and says the debt 
was never  part of a debt management plan. It retained the debt on the account and has 
never put it out to a third part collection agency or written it off.
Taking all these factors into account I think what RBS has done with the compensation for 
the PPI is fair. It wouldnt be fair for Mr B to be paid the costs  of the PPI by RBS when he 
has never actually paid for it. In any event RBS has to right to set off closely connected 
debts and as the PPI was directly connected  to the credit card the compensation debt can 
be set-off against the credit card debt Mr B owes.
So I dont  think RBS has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set I think what The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc has done with the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. And Im not going to tell it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2291111