K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) irresponsibly gave him 
a hire purchase agreement he couldnt afford. 
background 
In January 2016, Mr M acquired a used car using  a hire purchase  agreement from TCFC. 
The cash  price of the car was £4,799. Mr M paid a £99 deposit  and the rest was financed 
through the hire purchase agreement.  The total repayable was £8,334  over 36 months. The 
monthly repayments were  around  £229. 
Mr M says the car developed a number  of faults  soon after he took possession of it. He says 
asked the dealership to take the car back but they refused to do so. TCFC  says it tried to 
contact Mr M on several occasions because  all but his first monthly repayment had been 
missed. It said due to Mr M not getting  in contact it repossessed the car and terminated the 
agreement in August  2016. TCFC sold the car at auction and used the sales  proceeds 
towards the outstanding balance. It said Mr M still owed them  £5,781.25.
In 2019, Mr M complained  to TCFC to say that it had irresponsibly lent to him. He said the 
agreement wasnt affordable and that the dealership had altered his expenditure figures by 
halving his rent commitment to make it look more affordable.  He said he had an active 
County Court Judgment (CCJ) against him as well as a number of defaults for other credit 
and it should have been clear to TCFC he couldnt  afford the agreement.  
TCFC didnt think it had done anything wrong.  It said that there  wasnt  any evidence  to 
suggest the dealership had halved Mr Ms rent on the application form. It said it had carried  a 
thorough affordability  assessment and while it had seen that Mr M had a CCJ and five 
defaults recorded against him, it said these were  all historic and his open  credit accounts 
were being  managed well. It said the income  and expenditure form Mr M completed showed 
he had sufficient disposable income to meet the hire purchase repayments.
I sent Mr M and TCFC  my provisional  decision  on 15 February 2021.  I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. I said:
Did TCFC complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr M would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable  way?
Before granting credit,  TCFC were  required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr Ms ability to sustainably  repay  the debt.  This is often referred  to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Mr M could sustainably afford  the borrowing (considering  his 
specific circumstances), rather  than how statistically likely he was to repay. The latter, is the 
risk posed  to TCFC as the lender,  or its credit risk but this is not necessarily the same as an 
assessment of affordability. 
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to: 
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
Ref: DRN25298622The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances. 
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
The total amount  repayable under the hire purchase  agreement  was £8,334 with monthly 
repayments of around £229. The APR on the agreement was 49.6%. This was therefore a 
relatively expensive  commitment and my starting point is that any reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of affordability ought to have been  more thorough than for a 
cheaper and lower value  loan. 
TCFC says it asked Mr M to complete  an income and expenditure form, it completed a credit  
check and verified his income and expenditure using bank statements Mr M provided.  On 
the face of it, it therefore appears  as if TCFC  carried out a fairly thorough assessment in that 
it tried to gather and verify  information about  Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
However, there are a number of things within  the checks TCFC carried  out that ought to 
have raised concern and prompted it to carry out further checks before lending.  
The credit check it carried out showed that Mr M had a CCJ recorded  against him less than 
two months earlier. I think this highlighted that Mr M was likely to be in financial difficulty  if he 
was unable to meet credit commitments  so recently.  TCFC says the CCJ was for a low 
amount and Mr Ms income and expenditure form suggested he had enough disposable 
income to pay this amount. But if the information  on the form was accurate, it wouldnt make  
sense for Mr M to have  had a CCJ recorded  against  him. While its possible Mr M simply 
chose to not pay a debt despite having  the money  to do so, I would have expected  TCFC to 
apply much closer scrutiny to this, which it didnt do. 
Further to this, the credit report showed Mr M had five defaulted credit accounts which had 
outstanding balances exceeding  £2,000. The income and expenditure form made no 
allowances for repayment  towards  these debts or the outstanding balance  of the CCJ. 
Clearly, this ought to have  told TCFC  that the income and expenditure information  it had 
wasnt reliable. 
TCFC says it is a sub-prime lender and it therefore  will lend to consumers with adverse 
information on their credit  file. While that is a matter for TCFCs  own lending criteria and risk 
appetite, if it knows  a customer has adverse information, and in particular, recent adverse 
information this ought to highlight that its likely the consumer may be in financial difficulty. It 
therefore is required to ensure its affordability assessment is proportionate and reasonable 
and that it has taken into account the consumers individual circumstances. 
Ive also considered that a large  amount of the expenditure  Mr M declared on the form 
wasnt evident on the bank statements he provided.  So TCFC couldnt have verified this 
information. It was clear from the statements that Mr M did have another current account  as 
he was regularly transferring money  between these accounts. Given  the concerns around  
financial difficulty showing on Mr Ms credit file and the lack of information about his 
expenditure on the statements,  I think TCFC should  have  requested  to see the statements 
from Mr Ms other  account. 
Ref: DRN25298623Lastly, Mr M says that the dealership told him to halve  his rental figure  to make the 
agreement appear  more affordable. TCFC there  is no evidence  that this happened.  
However, Ive listened to a call between Mr Ms partner and TCFC  when she raised the 
complaint on Mr Ms behalf.  
TCFC says in the call that it is standard practice for them to half the rental figure on 
applications. Mr Ms partner then says to TCFC  that she wasnt  employed at the time and 
therefore wasnt contributing to the rent. TCFC told her this wouldnt make a difference and 
they would  still automatically half the rental  figure as it was standard practice.  Mr M has 
been consistent in his recollections that the dealership told him to halve the rental figure 
despite him telling  them  he was responsible for the full amount. Given the content of this call, 
Im persuaded, on balance, this is likely to have happened. Therefore, I dont think  TCFC 
gave proper consideration to Mr Ms specific personal circumstances before lending  to him. 
Overall, Im not persuaded TCFC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. It ought  
to have realised Mr Ms expenditure figures werent accurate and it should have done more  
to verify what these were. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr M could sustainably repay 
the borrowing?
TCFC gathered copies of Mr Ms bank statements to verify his income  and expenditure. As 
I think it ought to have realised he had another  account, and given the concerns  around his 
expenditure that Ive mentioned above, a reasonable and proportionate check  ought to have 
included reviewing statements from his other  account too. 
Mr M says that he was responsible for the full rent payments. His other account statements 
do show he paid the full amount out of his account.  However, it appears his partner was 
contributing something  towards the household expense. There are payments coming into his 
account from his partner but they arent consistent in amounts or timing, it appears to be ad-
hoc small amounts, rather than a regular,  sizeable  contribution. So, I think it would have 
been reasonable for TCFC to have concluded Mr M was responsible for all of the rent had it 
conducted a reasonable  assessment  of affordability. Particularly because Im satisfied this is 
what Mr M declared at the point  of application.  
Taking into account the information on the income  and expenditure form, TCFC concluded 
that Mr M had around £130 in disposable  income  after taking into account  the hire purchase 
payments to TCFC. However, this only included half of Mr Ms rent commitment. The 
additional half added a further £325 to his monthly  outgoings and would have made this 
agreement unaffordable.  
Even if I thought it would have been  reasonable for TCFC to assume Mr M was only 
responsible for half the rent (which I dont), its clear TCFC didnt  take into account Mr Ms 
credit commitments.  These were likely to be much higher  than the £9 per month TCFC  had 
recorded. Further, it seems unlikely that the figure of £100 per month for food that Mr M had 
declared was realistic and his bank statements appear to support that. By applying more  
realistic figures for these expenses its clear Mr M wouldnt have been able to afford  the 
borrowing even by using  half the rent figure. 
I therefore think had TCFC completed  reasonable and proportionate  checks,  it would have 
likely discovered Mr M couldnt afford  to repay  this agreement. It therefore needs to put 
things right. 
Ref: DRN25298624Did TCFC act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr M says the car had several  faults with it soon after he acquired  it. As the supplier of the 
car under the hire purchase agreement, TCFC  are responsible for complaints about the 
quality of the car. The Consumer Rights Act 2015  sets out that any goods should be of 
satisfactory quality. 
However, Mr M hasnt provided  anything  to demonstrate what  might  have  caused  those 
faults. This means it isnt possible for me to determine whether the problems with the car 
made it of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to him. It may just as likely been 
issues that were normal age related wear and tear for a used car, which is something TCFC 
wouldnt be responsible  for putting  right.
Ive reviewed the MOT history for the car. It passed with no advisories in January 2016  and 
in September  2016 which covered the time in which Mr M had possession of the car. Mr M 
has described problems  with the engine.  I think if there had been  issues with the engine  it 
would have likely been picked up in the MOT. While a MOT wont pick up everything that 
might be wrong with the car, it does  demonstrate  the car was likely roadworthy and capable 
of being driven.  On balance, Im therefore not persuaded that the car wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr M. 
It seems  that TCFC  also didnt get in touch with Mr M about the outstanding balance on the 
agreement for a long period of time after the car was repossessed. However, as Mr M hasnt 
been in a position to pay off any of the outstanding  balance, nor does it appear hes made  
any payments, I dont think hes suffered any material  loss, upset or inconvenience as a 
result. 
Putting things right
As I dont think TCFC  should have lent to Mr M, I think it should now refund everything hes 
paid under the agreement  minus a deduction  for the fair use hes had of the car. 
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what fair usage might  be. In deciding whats  fair 
and reasonable,  Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mr Ms 
overall usage of the car (including the mileage covered) and what his likely costs to stay 
mobile would have been if he hadnt  entered into this agreement. Having  done  so, I think a 
fair amount for TCFC to retain would be £100 per month for every month that he had been in 
possession of the car. This means  the total amount TCFC can retain is £700 for fair usage. 
I understand Mr M has paid less than £700  towards the agreement,  meaning  he will still 
have something to repay. TCFC has since sold the outstanding debt to a third party. It 
should therefore arrange to reduce Mr Ms outstanding liability with the third party  by the 
appropriate amount  so that all Mr M would have been required to pay under this agreement 
is £700 in total (including the deposit  of £99 he paid). 
Lastly, TCFC  should  remove any adverse  data it has recorded against  Mr Ms credit file in 
relation to this agreement. 
TCFC responded to say it had nothing further  to add. Mr M said that as well as the first 
monthly repayment of £228.75 and the £99 deposit, he paid a further  £550  to the new owner 
of the debt. This means  they had already paid in excess  of the £700  I said in my provisional  
Ref: DRN25298625decision was fair usage. Mr M asked  if this meant he should now be due a refund from 
TCFC instead. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has provided evidence to show he paid £550 to the new owner  of the debt at the end 
of 2019. This means he has paid a total of £877.75  towards the fair usage  of the car. As this 
is more than the £700 I said is fair and TCFC hasnt raised any arguments or objections to 
that figure,  this means it would be fair and reasonable for TCFC to refund the overpayment 
to Mr M. Mr M overpaid in December  2019 by £177.75. Therefore, TCFC should add 8% 
simple interest per year on that overpayment from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct The Car Finance Company 
(2007) Ltd to:
Refund Mr M £177.75, adding 8% simple interest per year from 19 December 2019  
to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on his credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2529862