K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B say West Bromwich Building  Society (West Brom) mis-sold them  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
Background
Mr and Mrs B arranged  mortgage borrowing with West Brom  in 1988, 2000, 2004  and 2008. 
West Brom  sold them regular premium PPI on each  occasion  to protect their repayments in 
the event of disability or unemployment. The PPI starting  in 1988 covered Mr B while the PPI 
covered both Mr and Mrs B from 2000  onwards.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and didnt  find that the PPI had been mis-
sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say they were put under extreme pressure to take out the PPI. Thats  a 
serious allegation and I havent  seen enough  evidence to support it. And Im mindful  that 
the earliest sale took place more than 30 years  ago, meaning their recollections might  no 
longer be as accurate as they believe.  
Unsurprisingly, there are some gaps in the information thats  still available.  Nevertheless, 
Ive also taken into account the sales paperwork thats been provided, the most relevant 
policy documentation  we hold and experience of what the typical features of these policies 
were. 
That paperwork includes  copies of mortgage/further  advance application forms for all four 
sales. I think the way the policies  were  described  in the paperwork  meant Mr and Mrs B 
broadly knew they were  buying separate insurance  to protect their payments and that it was 
optional. They were  asked if they wanted to opt out of taking PPI regarding the cover 
starting in 1988.  But I think  the form was nevertheless clear that it was optional. 
The further advance  application form from 2000  showed a box to request a PPI application 
form was ticked, as was the box to request joint, rather  than single, cover.
The further advance  application forms from 2004 and 2008 show  Mr and Mrs B were given 
the option to  increase their existing  cover or decline additional cover but chose to take it 
out. 
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs B were made aware on each occasion  that the PPI optional  and 
that they chose  to take it.
Ref: DRN26895582If West Brom  recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B it should have checked that it was 
right for them. I dont know for sure what actions West Brom  took,  but I think the PPI was 
right for them in any case based  on what  I know  of their circumstances. For instance:
It seems  Mr and Mrs B both would have been  eligible for the cover at the relevant 
times. And they wouldnt  have  been affected by any of the main things the PPI likely  
excluded or limited cover  for.
Mr and Mrs B were  entitled to statutory  sick pay but the PPI would  have covered 
their monthly repayments for up to 12 months  per claim. It covered them for 
unemployment too. The PPI meant they could have retained  any savings they had 
or used  them to help cover  their other expenses if they werent working. The 
mortgage and further advances were  significant and long-term loans  secured 
against their home. So, I think theyd  have found  the protection the PPI provided to 
be useful. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the monthly  premiums would have been unaffordable 
for Mr and Mrs B. And the PPI was flexible in that it could  have  been  cancelled at 
any time if they no longer wanted  it.
West Brom  also had to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
Mr and Mrs B could  make an informed choice about whether they wanted to buy PPI. I cant  
say for certain what they were told or that West  Brom told them  everything  it should have. 
But, as Ive explained, it looks like they wanted  this type of cover  and Im satisfied theyd 
have seen it as useful and affordable. So I dont think  better information would have put 
them off buying  it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think West Brom has to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. But West Brom will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI from 
October 1993 onwards to Mr and Mrs B because:
West Brom got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because  it didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.
To put that right, West Broms  basically offered to pay back  the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think 
that offers fair in this case. 
What the business needs  to do
West Brom  should pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. West Brom  should 
also pay back to Mr and Mrs B any extra  interest they paid because of that.
West Brom  should pay back to Mr and Mrs B the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. West Brom should 
also pay Mr and Mrs B 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN26895583My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich  Building Society doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2689558