K822xcomplaint
Mrs Us complaint is about how Phoenix  Life Assurance  Limited (Phoenix) handled a claim 
she made for benefits from an annuity  held by her late husband,  Mr U. She says Phoenix 
failed to provide  her with information  about  the policy, when she asked for it, and asked for 
the information it needed to process her claim in a piecemeal fashion, creating delay. 
background 
Mrs Us late husband held a personal  pension with Phoenix,  from which  he had taken  
benefits in 2000. Mr U took a lump sum payment and an annuity. Phoenixs records  show 
the annuity Mr U took was set up to provide a 100% benefit to his spouse,  Mrs U, if he 
pre-deceased her. 
Mrs U has been represented by her daughter at times but, for simplicity, Ill refer to Mrs U 
throughout. So references to Mrs U should be taken to mean  Mrs U or her daughter  acting 
on her behalf. 
Mrs U made  a claim on the annuity in October 2017,  shortly  after Mr U passed away. The 
claim was acknowledged  by Phoenix  on 26 October 2017. Mrs U sent a completed claim 
form, along with an official record of Mr Us death  and death  certificate,  to Phoenix on 19 
November 2017.  Mr U passed away whilst overseas, and the official  record of Mr Us death  
and death certificate  were  not written  in English. 
On 28 November 2017 Phoenix  provided  Mrs U with details of the spouses  benefit payable 
from the annuity. It also asked Mrs U for a copy of her birth certificate. Mrs U said she was 
not able to provide this. Phoenix  then asked for some further information, on 4 January 2018 
 a copy of Mrs Us passport, and confirmation  of the cause  of Mr Us death.  Mrs U wrote  to 
Phoenix on 7 February 2018 to confirm the cause of Mr Us death,  and highlighted that this 
was in the documents she had provided  earlier. She also asked why the copy  of the 
passport hadnt  been requested earlier, and said this would have to be provided later, as she 
was not in the UK at that time. 
Phoenix replied to Mrs U on 22 February 2018 and explained that, as it was not 
aware that  Mrs U did not have a birth certificate,  it had not requested a passport earlier  it 
only asked for this as proof of Mrs Us date of birth,  in the absence of a birth certificate. It 
also confirmed it would  start to pay benefits  to Mrs U once  the copy  of the passport was 
received. 
Mrs U sent a copy of her passport to Phoenix  on 14 March 2018. On 23 March 2018,  
Phoenix confirmed  that payments to Mrs U would begin. Five monthly payments were made 
shortly after that, and monthly payments  have  been  made since. 
Throughout this process  Mrs U made a number of requests for copies of the original policy  
documents. But these  were not provided to her. 
In response to Mrs Us complaint Phoenix said it would provide a copy  policy of the 
documents, and offered £100  for the trouble caused by these having to be requested a 
number of times and £50 for any upset caused by this. It also explained it only had to make 
further information requests once it had considered the information it had been  provided  
for example, once  it became  aware some documents were not written in English,  and that 
Ref: DRN21537642Mrs U did not have  a birth certificate. So it did not think  it had done  anything wrong by 
making multiple requests for information. 
In the event the copy policy documents  Phoenix  provided werent  what Mrs U wanted as 
they related to when the policy was taken out or transferred, not when benefits were  taken in 
2000. 
Our investigator considered things and said she thought  Phoenix  should offer Mrs U a 
further £150 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused. The investigator said she felt 
the £150 compensation that had been offered for the failure to provide the copy  policy 
documents was fair. She also said that the information requests  made  by Phoenix could only 
have been made once  it had the chance  to consider things. But she did think Phoenix could 
have been more efficient when Mrs U contacted it to say she didnt have a birth certificate. 
She felt it could have  told Mrs U there and then it needed a copy of her passport, and Mrs U 
might have then been able to get the passport to it sooner. In the light of this, she thought a 
further £150 compensation was fair. 
Phoenix accepted  this view. Mrs U did not. She did not think  the amount of compensation 
was adequate. She pointed out that Phoenix  had offered to provide copies of documents  it 
didnt have, and that it had taken  a referral of the complaint to us to get the details about  the 
policy she wanted. Mrs U also asked some  questions about the benefits payable.  She said 
she thought a lump  sum would be paid to her after Mr U died, and wanted to know  if the 
policy benefits were  being  paid as they ought  to be. In response to this the investigator said 
shed only seen evidence  of Mr U holding one policy with Phoenix,  and that benefits had 
been paid as shed expect  them to be. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.  
Im satisfied Mrs U has not suffered a financial loss as a result of any mistake  by Phoenix.  
She is being paid the spouses benefit she is entitled to, and these payments were 
backdated by Phoenix once  her claim had been  processed. So no income payments were 
missed. 
Im also satisfied that annuity is being  paid on the terms  it was taken out  there is no 
evidence to show any further benefits are due. Phoenixs records  show Mr U took benefits 
from his pension in 2000 and at that time took a lump sum payment and an annuity income. 
It is usual for pensions of this type to provide benefits in this way. And any spouse benefit, if 
selected, would usually result in the spouse receiving the annuity  income  for the rest of their 
life, rather than a lump sum payment. So I think  it unlikely Phoenix has made a mistake  
when paying benefits to Mrs U. The benefits are being paid as Id expect them to be from a 
policy of this type. 
So I only need to consider  whether it is fair and reasonable to say Phoenixs service could 
have been better. And what  is fair compensation for any failings in its service.
Like the investigator, I think the £150 Phoenix  has offered in compensation for the failure by 
it to provide the copy documents Mrs U wanted is fair. I think  Phoenix offered to provide 
these documents  in good faith,  on the assumption it would be able to find them in its records.  
Ref: DRN21537643But it should  have  then checked its records and told Mrs U it didnt have them, rather  than let 
Mrs U make repeated requests. The £150  offered is fair compensation for this. 
I think otherwise Phoenix provided Mrs U with a reasonable amount of information. It 
confirmed when the claim was made what benefits  were payable from the annuity, and I 
dont think it could reasonably be expected to do anything else.
I can appreciate Mrs Us frustration with the number of information requests Phoenix  made,  
when dealing with the claim. But I also think it needs  to be kept in mind  that the 
circumstances here were a little unusual. The official documents recording Mr Us passing  
away were not in English and Mrs U did not have  all the information a claimant might 
ordinarily have, such a birth certificate.  I think it was reasonable for Phoenix  to make 
information requests  in the expectation of receiving the sort of information it would often 
receive, and to then take some time to consider what it was provided  with. But, like the 
investigator, I do think Phoenix  could have been  more helpful when Mrs U called it to say 
she didnt have a birth certificate.  It could have checked what it needed in the light of this 
and told Mrs U then to send it a copy of the passport. And I think an extra  £150  
compensation for any trouble and upset caused by this is fair. 
I understand Phoenix has paid £50 of the £150 it originally offered Mrs U. So, given my 
above findings, I think it should  now pay £250  in total to Mrs U. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that Phoenix  should pay Mrs U £250 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153764