K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs K say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with their mortgage in 1995.  They  paid a monthly amount 
for the policy and the policy was in Mr Ks name  only.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs K aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr and 
Mrs K say it wasnt  made clear  the PPI was optional and that they had to take the policy  to 
get the mortgage. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs K have any paperwork from the time of sale.  I dont think 
thats surprising  given that the sale took place  20 years ago. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is likely to have happened, given  
the information I do have and the broader  circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear. And nothing Mr and Mrs K have told me makes 
me think Halifax didnt  follow its normal process here. Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ks comments 
that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage  but Im mindful that Mr and Mrs K felt able to 
cancel the policy a few months  later. So overall  I think its more likely Halifax made it clear to 
Mr and Mrs K they had a choice about  the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs K. So it had to check  it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  Mr Ks in particular  as the policy  was split 100% 
to Mr K and 0% to Mrs K  they seem to have  had a need for the cover.  Mr K wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr K says he wouldnt have received any sick pay benefits from his employer. I note that Mr 
and Mrs K say they had some savings but having the policy  wouldve had meant those 
savings could have  been used to cover other essential costs  if Mr K was unable to work. 
So it seems  they had a need for the policy. Mr and Mrs K were borrowing funds against a 
large and long term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think 
having the security  that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Mr K was unable  to 
work would have been important to them.
Ref: DRN25013972Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But Mr and Mrs K chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of cover.  And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above - it looks  like the policy would  have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. But 
Halifax will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs K. Its always difficult to 
decide a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs K 
and their representative have said - including what their representative has said about  there  
being other court cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission where  consumers have 
received everything  back. So it thinks Halifax should refund all of the money paid for the PPI 
plus interest.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Halifax has made Mr and Mrs K an offer of compensation in relation to the level 
of commission it received that is in-line  with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr and 
Mrs Ks representative wants Halifax to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs K and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress  for Mr and 
Mrs K. But there isnt anything about Mr and Mrs Ks complaint or circumstances that 
suggest the redress paid by Halifax isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Halifaxs  offer is a fair way to resolve this case. So this point doesnt 
change my decision. 
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Halifax  should  also pay back to Mr and Mrs K any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
Ref: DRN25013973*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2501397