K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  is about  a claim they made on their UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) 
travel insurance policy. 
Mr and Mrs J say UKIs handling of their claim was poor and their decision to turn it down 
was unfair.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2019, part of which is copied below:
Mr and Mrs J made a claim on a travel  insurance  policy they took out as part of a home 
insurance policy, for a trip they cancelled as a result  of Mrs J becoming unwell. 
UKI turned the claim down. They said this was because Mrs J visited a doctor  for the 
condition she was diagnosed with before she booked the trip and that the doctor carried  out 
some tests and investigations  into her illness at this time. But they also thought that they 
couldve handled the claim better. 
UKI accepted theyd  made errors in processing the claim; theyd told Mrs J they would write 
to her doctor to get further information  but this wasnt done until a month later when Mrs J 
called to find out what was happening.  And they didnt keep her updated, which led to Mrs J 
having to chase for updates and explanations.  Because of this, UKI sent her £200 to 
compensate her for the poor service she received. 
Mr and Mrs J dont think that UKI have acted  fairly  when turning down the claim. They say 
that whilst  Mrs J did go to see a doctor before she booked the trip, there was no indication 
that the reason for her visit, or the subsequent investigations would reveal the condition  she 
was eventually diagnosed with, which caused her to cancel her trip. And they dont think the 
compensation UKI have paid them goes far enough  to compensate  them for the distress and 
inconvenience theyve  suffered. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint and concluded that it should be 
upheld. He thought UKI hadnt declined the claim fairly under the policy terms, but that the 
amount theyd paid Mr and Mrs J for the poor service they received was adequate. 
UKI dont  agree so the matter has been  passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They say: 
No cover is provided for any existing serious medical condition  for any insured person 
which was known about on the start date of your policy or when you booked  your trip 
(whichever is
later).
Ref: DRN26069042Serious medical  condition is defined as:
Any medical condition for which you:
 have had advice or treatment or been  prescribed medication (whether you are taking it or 
not) from a doctor during  the 12 months  leading up to the start or renewal date of this 
insurance (shown on your schedule), or the date when you booked  your trip, whichever is 
later, you:
 have any circulatory  problems  or heart problems or cancer-related condition
 are under  investigation  or awaiting diagnosis
 are on a waiting list for inpatient treatment or are aware of the need  for inpatient treatment, 
or
 have had a terminal prognosis
Mr and Mrs J say that there was no indication  Mrs J was suffering from the serious medical  
condition she was eventually diagnosed  with when  she sought medical advice before 
booking her trip. But I dont think that means  UKI should cover her claim.  Thats  because  the 
policy exclusion isnt conditional on why Mrs J was under investigation or seeking medical 
advice or treatment before the trip was booked-  only that this was happening in respect of 
any medical condition.  
Having considered everything  I can see that Mrs J did seek advice and treatment and was 
under investigation  before  the trip was booked.  The medical certificate her doctor has 
provided confirms that Mrs J was experiencing abdominal cramps since her holiday in March 
2018 and that these  had gotten worse  since.  As a result she visited  her doctor about this in 
June 2018. In response to that her doctor  arranged for her to undergo some tests; so some 
investigations were  being conducted at this time.
I know that Mrs J and her doctor  say the investigations the doctor was carrying out werent  to 
ascertain whether she had the medical condition she was diagnosed with; but as Ive said I 
dont think this makes a difference. The policy excludes situations  like Mrs Js where advice, 
treatment and investigations were being made  into any condition rather than the condition  
she was eventually diagnosed with.
I understand Mr and Mrs J dont feel that the £200 UKI have paid them in respect of the poor 
service they received goes far enough to compensate them- particularly because  it was a 
difficult time for Mrs J to pursue her claim  due to her state of health. And I sympathise with 
this. But I think that the amount UKI have paid does represent fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint and that what theyve paid is adequate.
developments
I asked both parties to provide any other comments or information they wanted considered in 
response to my provisional  decision. 
UKI has confirmed it has nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs J have  also responded. Mrs J 
has made a number of submissions which Ive summarised as follows:
She wasnt undergoing any tests  or ongoing investigations into the illness she was 
eventually diagnosed with before she booked her trip.
Before the trip had been booked she had a routine stool sample  taken and a blood 
test which came back normal. She wasnt prescribed  any medication or diagnosed  
with anything other than stomach cramps of unknown cause. She was advised to 
Ref: DRN26069043alter her diet. And she wasnt predicted  to have any further ongoing tests or 
investigations or awaiting diagnosis for anything.
She had two GP appointments before the trip was booked  but the tests  they carried  
out were routine procedure and nothing more.  
One of the tests  came back with normal results. The second test that was carried out 
on the day she booked  the trip didnt come back until after the trip itself was booked.
She wasnt considered to have a serious medical condition by any medical 
professional before  she booked the trip.
Whilst her medical certificate might say she was experiencing  abdominal cramps 
since her holiday in March  2018 and that these had gotten worse, this isnt correct; 
she had one stomach cramp on early  June 2018  and before that only mild and 
occasional moments of discomfort  of no real concern since  her return from holiday.  
Thats why she thought a stomach bug had persisted from her holiday.
If shed have had stomach cramps  before  June  2018 shed have seen her GP 
sooner. 
In total she had two single  days of stomach  cramps prior to booking  her trip and in 
between these two solitary days of cramp.
She had only four days of stomach cramps in total prior to her diagnosis in July 2018 
which is why her eventual  diagnosis was such a shock to all the medical 
professionals concerned.
Overall she didnt  experience any symptoms  that wouldve indicated her ultimate  
diagnosis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  shouldnt be upheld for the reasons  set out in my provisional 
decision.
I agree  with most  of the points Mrs J has made.  But I dont think  they make a difference.  
Thats because the policy exclusion  applicable  to the claim isnt conditional  on why Mrs J 
had sought medical  advice  or investigation,  only that this was happening in respect of any 
medical condition.  And I appreciate that the medical  condition Mrs J was eventually 
diagnosed with wasnt what she was being  investigated  for before she booked  her trip. The 
fact that she did seek  medical  advice  and was under investigation  - however routine - is 
enough for that exclusion to apply.
I take on board what Mrs J has said about  the symptoms she was experiencing whilst on 
holiday in March of 2018. Ive asked  the investigator  to let her have a copy of the medical  
certificate her doctor has provided. That report sets out that she was experiencing abdominal 
cramps since her holiday and that these had gotten worse. Its true that the certificate 
doesnt comment on the frequency of the cramps but because of what Ive said above, I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
I know that Mrs Js eventual  diagnosis  came as a shock to both Mrs J and the medical  
professionals involved  in investigating her condition and I appreciate that this decision will be 
disappointing for her and Mr J. Id like to assure them  that Ive considered  everything theyve 
said when reaching  my conclusions and explaining  the application of the policy exclusion in 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN26069044my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2606904