K820x#14complaint
Mr O says AIB Group (UK) Plc (AIB), trading as First Trust Bank,  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Mr O took out with a two year loan in 
1996. The policy was taken out in a meeting and covered his loan repayments  if he was 
unable to work because of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr O disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
Mr O says that he was pressured into taking the PPI and told he had to do so to get his loan 
approved.
This sale took place  a very long time ago. So its not surprising that neither AIB nor Mr O still 
have much of the paperwork  that was produced at the time. Ive thought  carefully about what  
Mr O says he remembers about  what happened then. But I dont think  his memory of the 
sale is particularly detailed or vivid. This is understandable  as memories tend to fade over 
such long periods. So this means I need  to make my decision based on what  I think is most 
likely to have happened using the limited  information available to me.
Ive looked at the sample loan application form that AIB says was being used at around  the 
time of this PPI sale. And I think this is likely to have been the same,  or very similar, to the 
one used in this sale. Ive also taken account of what we know  from past experience  about 
AIBs normal face-to-face sales  process  at the time. And from all this information I think its 
most likely that there would have been a box ticked on the loan application form he signed to 
indicate that hed agreed to take PPI. There would have been an equally prominent box that 
could have been ticked if PPI wasnt required.  And I think the way this PPI section of the 
form is worded would have made it clear to Mr O that the PPI was optional.
Ive also seen a copy of the credit  agreement which was completed  for Mr Os loan. And I 
can see that the cost of £230.80 for the PPI single premium  is shown separately  on this 
agreement.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr O has said about being  told he had to have the PPI. And 
its possible that the representative  he spoke  to did wrongly mislead him in this way. But I 
dont think Ive got sufficiently persuasive  evidence to suggest  that this is what is most likely  
to have happened. On balance, I think its more likely that he actively  decided  to take the 
PPI, knowing he had a choice. But I can understand why he may not recall this now.
Ref: DRN21447872AIB says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr O. And from what I know  of AIBs normal  sales 
process at around  this time, I think this is likely  to be the case. This means AIB didnt need  to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for Mr O. But it did still need to give him enough 
information for him to decide  if he wanted to buy it. 
I dont know what information was given to Mr O about the PPI policy  during his meeting with 
AIB. And I think its possible that AIB didnt give him as much clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy as it should  have done.  This would have included information 
about its full costs, benefits and the various  terms and conditions  which  applied  to it. But I 
dont think better information  is likely to have changed Mr Os mind  about buying it. I say this 
because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr O says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer and also had some savings he 
could have used  if he wasnt  able to work. But this policy could  have paid out for much  
longer than these  would  have  lasted. So I think he would still have valued the additional 
protection the policy gave him if thing  went wrong. 
I think AIB could  have  set out details about the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr O would still have  bought  it. The policy  appears  to have been 
broadly comparable in cost to other  policies  offering  similar insurance at the time and I 
havent seen anything to make me think it wasnt affordable  for him. And it seems as if 
he was interested  in this type of cover because he opted for it on his loan application  
form.
Although Mr O might not have  received a proportionate refund of his PPI premium if hed 
cancelled his policy early,  I havent seen anything to suggest that this was likely. So I 
dont think he had a clear need for such flexibility.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr O has lost out by anything that AIB may have 
done wrong when it sold him this PPI policy.
Ive thought about all the points Mr O has made  in response to our adjudicators view, but 
these havent  changed my mind about  not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mr Os complaint and I make  no award 
against AIB Group (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2144787