K822xcomplaint
Mrs Gs unhappy with the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  has dealt with a claim on 
her motor insurance policy.
background 
Mrs Gs car was stolen and then recovered a few days  later with limited damage. She says 
Admiral took control of it, repaired it and returned  it to her. But shes  unhappy that Admiral 
didnt reactivate her policy, effectively  handing  back an uninsured  car which wasnt  legal for 
her to drive. Shes unhappy she had to go through  a full set up process like for a new policy  
and had to pay a £19.50  administration charge. She wants  compensation for the errors it 
made and assurance  that specific actions are being  taken rectify  the issues.
Admiral said in its final response that it couldve  dealt  with Mrs G better  when she contacted  
it. And although it said it had correctly  applied the £19.50 administration  charge  to reactivate 
the policy, it agreed to waive it on this occasion  as a goodwill gesture. It also apologised that 
Mrs G had been driving around  without insurance and said if she had been stopped by the 
police for this it wouldve dealt with matters.  But this hadnt happened  and it cannot  
compensate Mrs G on a what-if basis. But its offered to pay her £70 compensation for any 
trouble and upset  caused.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
It wouldve been distressing for Mrs G to find out shed been driving her car without 
insurance for a few weeks.  But this didnt bring about any problems with the police. 
Its fair for Admiral  to compensate her for the upset and distress caused. 
Admiral has acknowledged it couldve handled Mrs G better  at times. Had it done  so 
this complaint may not have arisen. And it said it couldve explained some things 
better to her. It seems Admirals representative didnt follow  the correct  complaints 
process. 
Admiral has waived  the £19.50 administration charge which  is fair. But its offer of £70 
compensation isnt enough. It should  increase this by £80 to total of £150.
Mrs G says she accepts the adjudicators recommendation.
Admiral doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given what happened its fair for Admiral to have waived its £19.50 administration  charge to 
reactivate the policy.
So, all that remains is for me to consider  whether Admirals offer of £70 compensation is fair 
and reasonable for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mrs G .
Ref: DRN25546402Its clear that Admiral couldve handled a number of aspects of the claim better. And if it had 
done so its more than likely Mrs G may not have had to pursue this complaint.
Admiral also didnt reactivate the policy correctly. This resulted in Mrs G driving  her car for a 
few weeks while uninsured. But she wouldve done  so unknowingly and I cannot  
compensate her for anything that mightve happened, but didnt actually happen, like her 
being stopped by the police for failing to have  insurance.
Even so I think it wouldve come as an understandable shock to Mrs G to later find out she 
had, inadvertently and through no fault of her own, been unlawfully driving  while uninsured.  
She undoubtedly experienced some distress  as a result of this realisation.  Its also apparent 
she experienced some inconvenience from the way she was dealt with.
Overall I think  Mrs G should  receive  some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes experienced. And I agree with the adjudicator that Admirals offer of £70 for this isnt 
quite enough.  Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards we make, I think 
the payment of a total of £150 compensation is fair and reasonable. And I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Admiral Insurance Company Limited should, if it 
hasnt done so already, pay Mrs G a total of £150  compensation.
Admiral must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs G 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mrs G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2554640