K820x#14complaint
Mr W1 and Mrs N complain on behalf the estate of Mr W about the advice Mr W was given 
to invest by an adviser for St. James  Place  Wealth Management Plc. In summary they 
complain that:
The adviser didnt  consult them as lives assured with regard  to the onshore bond Mr 
W was advised to invest in and it isnt suitable for them.
Mr W didnt  take up the option  of a Unit Trust investment because of the upfront fee 
but there was an initial fee of £16,000  for the onshore bond which brings  into 
question Mr Ws understanding of the bond.
Certain features  of a loan trust Mr W didnt  go ahead  with which were unacceptable 
to him and them also apply to the onshore  bond and they wouldnt have agreed to 
the bond if they had been made aware  of it.
The advice to invest in the offshore bond is at variance with previous advice from the 
adviser that an International Investment Bond would provide no benefit over an 
onshore bond unless held for 20 years.
The adviser didnt  refer to any alternatives  to the offshore bond to mitigate Mr Ws 
Inheritance Tax Liability  (IHT).
After Mr Ws death they didnt get the support they shouldve done from the adviser.
There were  long delays in dealing with the SJP administration  centre and they ended 
up instructing an accountant and solicitor.
background
In 2013 Mr W was advised to invest in an onshore  bond (and an ISA) with money  arising 
from surrender of two current  bonds.  He was also advised to invest surplus monthly  income 
in an offshore bond. At the time he already had some existing investments with SJP.  He died 
on 18 February 2017. Mr W1 and Mrs N were appointed as executors of his estate in June 
2017.
I Issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I didnt uphold the complaint and in summary made the following points:
Mrs N was aware that the adviser was going  to have further discussions with Me W 
about his investment  after it had been  decided he wouldnt invest in a loan trust.
It was open to her to say she wanted to be involved  in the discussions but there  was 
nothing to show she did this, and it is more likely than not she and Mr W1 didnt feel 
they needed to be involved.
It is unlikely that the adviser didnt email and telephone Mrs N and Mr W1 as stated in 
the suitability report given the adviser  had no reason to think Mr W wouldnt discuss 
the report with them  so they would  be aware  he had said this.
Even if the adviser didnt contact them it doesnt  make the onshore bond unsuitable. I 
have seen no persuasive evidence it wasnt in line with his needs and risk appetite.
I didnt think the advice to invest in the onshore bond  was a churn as the evidence 
showed Mr W was unhappy  with his existing bonds  and wanted  the adviser to 
provide ongoing face to face advice.
There wasnt an upfront fee for the advice.
The advice to invest monthly surplus  income  in an offshore bond  wasnt inconsistent  
with what the adviser had said about there being no benefit  in investing in an offshore 
bond, as that comment was referring to lump  sum investments.
Ref: DRN22946632The offshore bond  to be held in trust was suitable for Mr Ws needs  - being  capital 
growth and building up money outside  of his estate for IHT purposes.
The service provided by SJP wasnt such that it is responsible  for the legal fees and 
accountants fees the trustees paid.  
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  any further information they wanted me to 
consider before reaching my final decision. SJP said it didnt have anything further to add. 
Mr W1 responded and said the following:
 
SJP sold an inappropriate long-term financial product to an elderly man in poor 
health.
As the product is designed to be passed to the next of kin it should  be suitable  for 
them and he is surprised that the ombudsman  didnt think  he and Mrs N needed to 
be consulted.
Mr W disliked  trusts  and would not have  anything to do with them so clearly  didnt 
understand what he was signing  up to.
He received no communication from the adviser at any time before the death of Mr W 
and he has never  seen the suitability report on Mr Ws investments.
After the death  of Mr W SJP did answer  questions but did so slowly and no back-up 
advice was given
The adviser refused  to meet  with them which couldve been of benefit.
Encashment  of the bond required lengthy  form filling and took several weeks which  
wasnt much  use in a volatile market.
It was in the interests of the adviser to switch  Mr Ws investments to SJP when he 
moved to that business as he wouldve made money out of each  product sold.
SJP is a sales drive organisation and calling the Partners advisers isnt correct as 
their job is to sell the companys product  which makes them salesmen.
Mr W kept things  simple, but the bonds are a legal  and administrative nightmare  and 
he is convinced his father didnt understand them.
The adviser didnt  involve him and Mrs N because he knows  they wouldve vetoed 
the investments.
An ISA in a building  society wouldve met Mr Ws wishes  and made his estate  simple  
to wind up.
SJP sold a complicated and confusing financial product to and intelligent  but elderly 
main in poor health and the resulting mess had been no benefit  to him or Mrs N.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has made several points as I have set out above. But these generally repeat what has 
already been said. He has provided no new information or evidence,  and nothing he has 
said persuades  me that the findings in my provisional decision  are wrong such that I need to 
change my decision.
Mr W has again suggested that the bond  shouldve been suitable for him and Mrs N and is 
surprised that I thought  they didnt need to be consulted. I repeat that there was no 
requirement on the adviser to ensure that the bond  was suitable for them simply because 
they were named as lives assured. Mr W was the client  and it had to be suitable  for him, not 
them.
Ref: DRN22946633I note what Mr W1 has said about  Mr Ws dislike of trusts and his belief that Mr W didnt 
understand the bonds. But I have seen no persuasive evidence that Mr W didnt understand 
what he was investing in - the money  he invested in the onshore bond  came from two 
investment bonds  he had previously invested in, so he had experience of this type of 
investment.
Mr W has said he didnt  get any communication from the adviser, and he has suggested  that 
the adviser didnt  want him, and Mrs N, involved because he knew  they would veto the 
investments. I have seen  no persuasive  evidence that the adviser sought to exclude them 
from discussions about the investment. As I noted  in my provisional decision Mrs N was 
aware the adviser was going to discuss further  investments with Mr W and couldve asked to 
be involved  if that is what she wanted.  And I think  the evidence  overall suggests the adviser  
sought to make them aware of what he was doing.
 
Mr W has referred to issues  in encashing  the bond.  But I don[t think  the adviser is 
responsible for any issues that arose  on encashment  and Im not satisfied this means that he   
did something wrong by recommending  the bond  in the first place, or that this made  it an 
unsuitable recommendation for Mr W.
 
Mr W has raised an issue about the adviser getting  paid for the advice and says that he was 
a salesman not adviser. But advisers generally  get paid for advising clients to take out 
investments, whether  the adviser  is a restricted adviser limited  to advising on certain 
investments (as in this case) or an independent  adviser advising on the whole market. That 
doesnt mean the advice is then unsuitable.  I have already explained that I dont think the 
advice was simply to generate fees for the adviser.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W1 and Mrs N 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22946634COPY  PROVSIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr W1 and Mrs N complain  on behalf the estate of Mr W about  the advice Mr W was given to invest 
by an adviser  for St. James  Place  Wealth Management Plc. In summary they complain  that:
The adviser  didnt consult them as lives assured with regard to the onshore bond  Mr W was 
advised to invest in and it isnt suitable  for them.
Mr W didnt take up the option of a Unit Trust investment because of the upfront fee but there 
was an initial fee of £16,000 for the onshore bond which brings into question  Mr Ws 
understanding of the bond.
Certain features of a loan trust Mr W didnt  go ahead with which were unacceptable  to him 
and them also apply to the onshore  bond and they wouldnt  have agreed to the bond if they 
had been made aware of it.
The advice to invest in the offshore  bond  is at variance with previous advice from the adviser 
that an International Investment Bond  would provide no benefit over an onshore bond unless 
held for 20 years.
The adviser  didnt refer to any alternatives to the offshore  bond to mitigate Mr Ws Inheritance 
Tax Liability  (IHT).
After Mr Ws death  they didnt get the support they shouldve done from the adviser.
There were  long delays in dealing with the SJP administration centre and they ended up 
instructing an accountant and solicitor.
background
In 2013 Mr W was advised to invest in an onshore bond (and an ISA) with money  arising from 
surrender of two current bonds. He was also advised to invest surplus monthly income  in an offshore 
bond. At the time he already  had some existing  investments with SJP. He died on 18 February 2017. 
Mr W1 and Mrs N were  appointed as executors of his estate in June 2017 and Mrs N complained  to 
SJP at the end of 2018.  It didnt uphold  the complaint and in its final response,  in summary, it made  
the following points.
The point of sale documents show that Mr W wanted to invest  for potential  capital growth  for 
at least  the medium term to benefit from the SJP approach to investment management.
The suitability  report confirms Mr W1 and Mrs N had the opportunity  to attend  the meeting  but 
were unable to.
It is always advisable to add younger lives to an Investment Bond.
The illustration Mr W was given  shows a 100%  of the contribution made is allocated to units 
at the Bid price.
The bond  was similar in structure  to Mr Ws existing  bonds.
Investing in a loan trust for IHT mitigation  was discounted by Mr W and the adviser then 
recommended the International  Investment Bond which Mr W wanted to invest £1,000 each 
month into for capital growth  and reducing his potential IHT.
There was not an appropriate alternative for Mr Ws circumstances as he wanted to invest  a 
monthly amount rather  than lump sum and he had discounted the loan trust.
There was short delay when the administration  centre was unsure  as to whether the required  
forms had been received by the solicitors.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  SJP had done anything wrong.  In 
summary she made the following key findings:
The suitability  letter shows that Mr W was given the opportunity of having someone attend the 
meeting he had with the adviser in 2013.
The adviser  stated that he would send copies  of the suitability letter and financial report to Mr 
W1 and Mrs N and as this wouldve  been easy for Mr W to check there is no reason  the 
Ref: DRN22946635adviser wouldve said he would do this if he wasnt going to send the document  to them. The 
email correspondence with Mr W1 and Mrs N in 2013 shows the adviser  was in contact and 
trying to be helpful in answering questions.
The bond  didnt have an upfront  fee as Mr W1 and Mrs N thought.
The suitability  letter recorded the early surrender charge, so Mr W was made  aware of this.
The adviser  checked with Mr W1 and Mrs N that they didnt need to access  the funds  in the 
six years from start of the investment in the event Mr W died in that time even though the 
recommendation only had to be suitable  for Mr W.
The adviser  did answer the questions he was asked  after the death  of Mr W1 and tried to 
help. The decision  to use solicitors was entirely  up to Mr W1 and Mrs N and she couldnt 
recommend SJP pay for this.
She didnt  think SJP had caused unnecessary delay  in releasing the funds which was as a 
result of the solicitors  not providing the necessary  forms before the beginning of January  
2018.
Mr W1 and Mrs N didnt  agree with the investigator and, in short,  made  the following points:
The adviser  clearly  appreciated  that it was necessary/advisable to include them in the 
meeting as they were  lives assured  under the bond. It isnt possible to be certain as to why no 
invitation was made but they shouldve  been involved, if not at the meeting  then at least by 
sending some information to them as the adviser  had done  with a previous investment.
The paperwork the adviser  said he sent to them  didnt arrive  at either of their addresses and 
the adviser couldve checked with them if they had got the paperwork, but he didnt. 
They  have no record of any contact about the bond. SJP has provided copies of email 
communication earlier in 2013  relating to a Will Trust that never went ahead.
There is a key fact document which shows an initial cost of £16,041 which suggests  some 
sort of upfront fee was charged.
It was fair of SJP to offer to repay the early exit charge. They  didnt accept this as it was 
offered in full and final settlement.
It has been suggested that this wasnt an appropriate product for an 86-year old and they 
would like the investigators comments on that.
The adviser  helped with specific questions after Mr Ws death.  But their request  for a meeting 
was declined until after probate  when  they needed help in understanding what they were  
dealing with in order to get probate in the first place.
They  got the answers with the help of an accountant but question if this shouldve  been 
necessary.
There were  difficulties  with SJP administration  centre, and their solicitor had to take a very 
active role to move things along.
It was willing to offer £2,900 for the early withdrawal charge (EWC)  for the bond as Mr Ws 
existing bonds were  not subject to an EWC.  
The investigator responded  to the points raised  by Mr W1 and Mrs N and said her opinion remained  
the same.  She said the point  they had made about the overall suitability of the bond was not part of 
the original  complaint and would need to be referred first to SJP before  we could consider that issue.
SJP said one point they wanted to make  is that Mr W1 and Mrs N were added  as lives assured  to 
allow them to make  decisions about  encashment  of the plans.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W1 and Mrs N have  raised  a complaint  about three issues;  the advice  to invest in the onshore 
bond; the advice to invest in the offshore  bond;  the service provided  by SJP after the death  of Mr W.
The onshore  bond 
Ref: DRN22946636One of the points Mr W1 and Mrs N have made about the advice to invest is that they werent 
involved. 
I have seen an email  dated 22 March 2013 to the adviser  from Mrs N in which  she states that she, Mr 
W and Mr W1 had given some thought to the loan trust and decided  not to take this up. She goes on 
to state that Mr W had some  investments  that were performing poorly and that the advisers 
recommendation to move  these into funds with expectations  of better yields  seems to be the priority 
for Mr W.
The adviser  responded to Mrs N on 25 March 2013 saying he would speak with Mr W and deal with 
the underperforming funds without any trust options. So, Mrs N was aware that the adviser would  be 
having further  discussions with Mr W about his investments. I have seen no evidence that she then 
told the adviser that she (or Mr W1) wanted to be involved  in those  discussions. And given she was 
aware that Mr W was going to get advice about this it was open to Mrs N to say she wanted  to be 
involved but I have seen nothing to indicate that she said she wanted this. In the circumstances I think 
it is more likely than not that Mrs N (and Mr W1) didnt feel at the time that they needed  to be 
involved.
 
The suitability report I have seen dated 19 June 2013 refers  to it not being possible  for Mr W1 and 
Mrs N to attend a meeting  as they live in different parts of the country. I acknowledge Mrs N has said 
they were not invited to a meeting, but it isnt clear to me that the adviser  was saying he invited them 
to a meeting. It is possible he was simply have been setting out what  Mr W had told him.
The report does refer to the adviser having emailed  and telephoned Mr W1 and Mrs N to update them  
about the recommendations in the report. The letter  also refers to the adviser  sending them a copy of 
the suitability report. They have  said they didnt receive  any correspondence  from the adviser at the 
time about the recommendations, and Mrs N has said she has checked her diaries and has no record 
of a conversation with the adviser  at the time.
But I think its unlikely that the adviser wouldve told Mr W that he had contacted  Mr W1 and Mrs N 
when he hadnt done so - I dont think he wouldve  mistakenly thought he had done this or wouldve 
knowingly sought to mislead Mr W that he had done so when he hadnt.  
I say this because the adviser was aware  Mr W was in contact with Mr W1 and Mrs N, as they had 
been involved  in his decision not to take out the loan trust. He was also aware  from her email of 22 
March 2013 that they knew he was going  to discuss investments with Mr W. So, he had no reason  to 
think that Mr W1 and Mrs N wouldnt be made aware  by Mr W of the advice he had given and the 
contents of the report. In the circumstances, knowing this, I can see no reason the adviser would then 
have put something in the report  he knew to be wrong and was likely to be picked up on. 
I acknowledge Mr W1 and Mrs N dont have  any record of communication or recollection of any 
telephone conversation. But Im mindful  they are recalling events from several years ago and 
memories over time are generally not complete or accurate.
But even if the adviser didnt contact Mr W1 and Mrs N about the advice  to invest in the onshore 
bond, this doesnt mean that he gave  unsuitable  advice to Mr W. I note that Mr W1 and Mrs N have 
said the bond  wasnt suitable  for them, but that isnt something the adviser had to consider when 
advising Mr W. 
As they were named  as lives assured  under the bond this meant it did not automatically  come to an 
end on the death of Mr W. This means the bond can be continued by way of assignment to the 
surviving lives assured if that is what they want. I note that in this case  the onshore bond was 
assigned to Mrs N in June 2018  after partial encashment in January  2018 for IHT  and the offshore 
bond was assigned to Mr W1 around the same time. 
Ref: DRN22946637Being named as lives assured does not mean that the bond had to be suitable for them at the time it 
was sold to Mr W, it only had to be suitable for Mr W. 
The money  that Mr W used to invest in the bond came from surrender of two existing bonds which  
were not with SJP.  I note that Mr W1 and Mrs N have said that certain  features of the loan trust which 
Mr W found unacceptable chose were also in the onshore bond and they wouldnt have  agreed to it if 
they had been made aware of the bond. They  havent specified what features were  the same  and 
made the bond unsuitable.  But given Mr W was already invested in two bonds at the time Im not 
persuaded that any similarities with the loan trust means the onshore bond the adviser recommended 
was unsuitable.
Mr W was identified as being a medium risk investor in the suitability report, and the bond was in line 
with this. From the information available the existing investments that were  cashed in to fund the bond 
were also medium risk investments. I have not seen  any persuasive evidence  that the bond was not 
in accordance  with Mr Ws risk appetite.
I have considered whether  the advice  to invest in the bond was a churn  advice to sell existing 
investments and invest in a new investment  simply to generate fees for the adviser.  I have looked  at 
this because the money for the bond came from two existing bonds and it is arguable  that moving 
money from an existing medium risk bond to another medium risk bond is a churn. 
But the email from Mrs N of March 2013 refers to Mr Ws investments performing poorly, so it appears 
he wasnt entirely  happy  with his existing investments.
In addition, the suitability report recorded that Mr W liked the SJP approach to investment and wasnt 
receiving ongoing face to face advice  regarding the existing investments. It states that Mr W didnt 
want to monitor their performance himself and wanted ongoing face to face advice from the adviser - 
who was unable to advise on the existing  investments  as they werent SJP investments. The report 
also records  that Mr W wanted to simplify  the charges  he was paying, and the suitability  report  
indicates the charges with the new bond were lower.
In the circumstances of this case I dont think it is possible to say that it is more likely than not the 
advice to sell two existing bonds and reinvest in another bond  was a churn.
Mr W1 and Mrs N raised an issue about the fee for the bond. But there wasnt an upfront fee payable 
as with the Unit-Trust investment. From the information I have seen100% of the money  invested was 
used to purchase units in the bond with no deduction. Mr W was also entitled to 100%  of the value of 
units if the bond  was held for six years. 
What was payable was an early withdrawal charge. SJP has offered to repay this charge which I think 
is reasonable in the circumstances given  there was no such charge payable for the existing 
investments Mr W surrendered to fund the bond. But I dont think  this charge  necessarily  means  that 
the investment  was unsuitable in the first place  given the bond could be continued beyond  six years 
as Mr W1 and Mrs N were lives assured. And the suitability report  records they wouldnt need to 
access the bond  within six years if Mr W died sooner than hoped   as he did.
One final point is that Mr Ws age of itself didnt  make the bond unsuitable given it could be continued  
by way of assignment if he died. 
The offshore bond 
 I have seen  a suitability report in relation to the offshore bond dated 28 June 2013,  a week  or so later 
than the suitability report for the onshore bond. I note that Mr W1 and Mrs N have suggested  that 
there is some contradiction between the advice  for the onshore  bond and the advice  to invest in an 
offshore bond.
In the suitability report  for the onshore bond the adviser stated that:
Ref: DRN22946638International Investment Bond (IIB) - there is no potential benefit in you investing  offshore, since,  for 
a basic rate taxpayer,  the projected returns of an Investment Bond are higher, unless the offshore 
investment is held for a period of 20 years  and this time period significantly exceeds  your objectives.
I understand why Mr W1 and Mrs N have suggested  that the advice then given to invest in the 
offshore bond  is at variance with this statement. 
But what the adviser  was advising about in the suitability  report for the onshore bond was a lump  sum 
investment, whereas the advice to invest in the offshore  bond was in relation to a monthly  payment  
out of excess income. In the circumstances I dont think there was a contradiction  in the advice as 
between the onshore bond and offshore bond.
The suitability report for the offshore bond identifies  Mr Ws objective as being to invest for growth  
whilst building up money outside of his estate for IHT purposes. The advice was to put the bond in 
trust, and as money paid into the bond  was to be from surplus income  it was exempt from IHT so 
would fall outside of his estate. In the circumstances  I think the offshore bond was suitable  for Mr Ws 
identified needs.
Mr W1 and Mrs N have  said that the adviser  didnt  consider any other options for IHT planning. But 
they have not suggested what the adviser  shouldve done instead. Im not satisfied that the offshore 
bond was unsuitable  because it is possible  Mr W couldve  achieved IHT mitigation some other way. 
I think  it is of note that whilst Mr W obviously had some  desire to mitigate his IHT this does not appear 
to have been  a major issue for him such that he wanted to make a lump  sum investment for IHT 
purposes, as the suitability  report for the onshore bond made clear when it stated:
You have therefore chosen to limit the action  you intend to make use of your annual gift exemption of 
£3,000 per annum  and making  gifts to your beneficiaries  from your surplus income.
In the circumstances I think the advice  to invest surplus income in the offshore bond was suitable.
The service provided by SJP after the death of Mr W 
Ref: DRN22946639I have seen email correspondence from April 2018 when Mrs N was asking the adviser  for some 
information relating to the forms that needed to be completed for HMRC.  The adviser 
said she would need advice from a solicitor although he gave his understanding  of the position. I have  
seen further email  correspondence from September 2017 between Mrs N and the adviser about the 
surrender penalty for the onshore  bond. 
From the information I have  been given  I think the adviser  sought to answer  the questions raised by 
Mrs N and I am not persuaded there was any failing  on the part of SJP with regard  to this.
Mr W1 and Mrs N instructed  solicitors and seek recovery of over £7,000 in legal  fees. But Mr W1 and 
Mrs N have provided no persuasive evidence  that they only instructed solicitors because  there was a 
lack of co-operation  from SJP rather than because they wanted help with the requirements  of HMRC  
in any event.  And  given the amount being claimed for solicitors fees it seems to me their involvement  
was not limited to getting information from SJP. In the circumstances, on the evidence available, Im 
not satisfied  that SJP are responsible for the solicitors  costs.
The timeline  from the solicitors shows  there  was some delay between its initial request  for information 
to SJP on 17 November 2017 and the information being provided on 4 January 2018. And although 
SJP issued  a cheque on 9 January 2018 this was sent to the solicitors despite them  requesting that 
the funds be sent to the executors directly which caused some small  additional delay. But I dont think 
the delay overall caused any loss to the estate.
Mr W1 and Mrs N also seek recovery of accountants fees. But given Mrs N said in an email dated  5 
April 2017  only two months after the death of Mr W - that she had already consulted an accountant I 
can see no basis for SJP being responsible for these fees either. 
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained  above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2294663