K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited  didnt transfer him to a private hospital and 
turned down a claim for a NHS hospital  cash benefit under a group medical  insurance  policy.
background
Towards the end of December 2018  Mr P became unwell. His wife, Mrs P, took him to an 
accident and emergency department at a NHS hospital. Mr P was admitted to hospital and 
the following  day he collapsed whilst  having  a shower in hospital. He ended up staying in 
hospital for some time, receiving treatment  for his illness.
Mrs P contacted Vitality. She wanted to get Mr P transferred to a private  hospital  for 
treatment, and so he could have his own room.  Vitality, ultimately, declined this request. 
As Mr P ended up staying  in the NHS hospital,  a claim was made for the NHS hospital cash 
benefit which can be paid if the beneficiary  of the policy  stays  overnight in a NHS hospital up 
to a maximum amount.  This claim was declined  by Vitality.
Unhappy, Mrs P brought a complaint to our Service on behalf of Mr P.
Our investigator didnt  think Vitality  had done  anything wrong,  so didnt uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. He disagrees and Mrs P has raised  further points on his behalf. The complaint 
has now been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. I know 
Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision but for the reasons  I set out below, I dont  
think Vitality has done anything wrong  in this particular case.
Vitality should consider  claims  made  on the policy promptly and fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably decline a claim. 
The treatment plan Vitality  received from Mr Ps consultant around 9 January 2019, when 
Mr P was still in hospital, says:
plan going forward is for (Mr P)  to be transferred to a rehab facility for bilateral lower  
leg weakness (MRC 3/5), and a weakened wrist extension (MRC 3/5), and this will be 
done as soon as a Rehab centre has a place available
Amongst other things, the policy doesnt cover:
 rehabilitation following  treatment except following a stroke or serious  brain injury  as 
shown in your benefits table
Mr P didnt suffer a stroke  or serious brain injury.  So, based on the information it had 
received from the consultant, I dont think Vitality  has unreasonably relied on this exclusion 
to decline transferring Mr P to a private  facility so that he could access  the rehabilitation 
treatment needed.  
Ref: DRN27688192Nor do I think Vitality has unreasonably declined Mr Ps claim for the NHS hospital  cash  
benefit under the policy. The policy sets out some  situations where this benefit  wont be paid 
including:
If you are admitted to a NHS hospital in an emergency, no benefit will be payable  for 
any part of the admission.
Its not disputed  that Mr P was admitted to a NHS hospital. Emergency isnt defined.  Ive 
taken into account  what Mrs P says about  Mr Ps GP service being shut and so she had no 
choice but to take him to accident and emergency.  However, given what the consultant  says 
about Mr Ps symptoms - that he was very weak when he arrived at the hospital and unable 
to mobilise independently  - I dont think Vitality has unreasonably concluded that even if 
Mr P had been able to see his GP on the day in question; he most probably wouldve been 
advised to go to accident and emergency. And so, Im satisfied its reasonably  concluded 
that he was admitted to a NHS hospital in an emergency.  I also note that Mr P was advised  
to stay in hospital which  isnt inconsistent  with it being an emergency situation.
Ive also taken into account all of Mrs Ps other comments on behalf of Mr P, including what  
she says about  Vitality delaying making  a decision whether to transfer Mr P to a private  
facility and giving her the impression that Mr P would  be transferred. However, the call 
recording Ive listened to and the notes taken by Vitalitys representatives of calls they had 
with Mrs P in early January 2019 dont support that. 
Im satisfied Mrs P called Vitality  to get authorisation to transfer Mr P to a private facility  on 
4 January 2019. Vitality then requested the NHS  hospital to complete and return particular  
forms before  it would consider whether to transfer Mr P to a private  facility.  It subsequently 
required confirmation of the diagnosis that had been  given and a treatment plan from the 
consultant. Its not unusual  for medical  insurers to ask for information like this in this type of 
situation. I dont  think Vitality acted unreasonably by doing so. And whilst I note that Mrs P 
was frequently  contacting Vitality for updates over a period  of a few days, Im not persuaded 
that the delay  in obtaining the necessary information  can be fairly attributed  to Vitality. All in 
all, Im satisfied that it proactively tried to get the information it needed - and promptly  
considered it.   
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 6 February  2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2768819