K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr I between  July and 
December 2015.  A summary of Mr Is borrowing history is set out below:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount* Highest 
Repayment
1 16/07/2015 30/09/2015 6 £200.00 £60.37
2 20/07/2015 01/12/2015 6 £100.00 £89.14
3 28/07/2015 30/09/2015 6 £50.00 £106.18
4 20/10/2015Sold  to 
third party6 £250.00 £101.79
5 05/12/2015Sold  to 
third party6 £750.00 £314.70
* The highest  repayment figure is sometimes made  up of multiple  payments when the 
loans overlapped.
Mr I said the loan amounts increased on subsequent months  without re-assessing his 
income or outgoings  and the resulting repayments  were such  a burden that he struggled  to 
meet his normal household commitments such as utility bills, rent and food. The effect of 
taking out these loans led to him having to seek payday loans from other  lenders,  creating a 
spiral of debt which dramatically impacted his income.
Sunny said for all loan applications, it undertook eligibility, creditworthiness  and affordability 
checks before deciding whether to provide the loan.  And it said it made these checks in this 
case for each of the loans it provided to Mr I. It did not uphold Mr Is complaint. It also said it 
had sold his fourth and fifth loan to a third party.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Sunny  had done  anything wrong when  it gave Mr I his first four 
loans. But it was her view that it shouldnt have provided loan 5 to Mr I. As this represented a 
significant proportion  of Mr Is income,  she said there was a significant risk that Mr I wouldnt 
have been able to meet his existing  commitments  without having  to borrow again. So, she 
didnt think Mr I would have been able to sustainably meet  his monthly  repayments  for this 
loan. 
Sunny disagreed. It told us that it appeared we had failed to consider the full picture of Mr Is 
circumstances. It re-iterated that Mr Is income was disclosed as £1250 and his expense  
information including other short-term commitments were presented as being  £583 before 
Mr I paid this loan.  So, it said Mr I had around  £350 remaining to cover  any unforeseen 
expenses after paying this instalment and therefore the fifth loan was affordable. It asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN22436402complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr I could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint. And after having done so, Ive decided 
Sunny shouldnt have provided  Mr I with his fifth loan.
On balance I think the checks Sunny did were proportionate for the first 4 loans. These  were  
Mr Is first loans and Sunny was in the early  stages of its relationship with Mr I, so I think it 
could rely on the information it had been provided with. And this information  didnt show that 
the loan repayments were  likely  to be unaffordable  for Mr I. So, I dont uphold Mr Is 
complaint about  these  loans.
When Sunny  gave Mr I his fifth loan,  the previous loan of £250 had been replaced with 
further and much larger borrowing of £750. And the combined total repayment amount of 
Ref: DRN22436403£314.70 was the largest  combined repayment Mr I had to make. In my view this represented 
a significant proportion of Mr Is income which  Mr I had to maintain every  month  over a 
number of months. Taking into account  that Mr Is fourth  loan was still outstanding, I dont 
think Mr I could repay this loan in a sustainable  manner. 
Ive also explained  above that even if a loan may appear affordable on a pounds and pence 
basis it doesnt necessarily mean  that a consumer can afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.
The regulations in place at the time provided guidance about what  sustainable meant - the 
payments could be made without undue difficulties, on time, while meeting other  reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to meet the repayments, over the life of the 
agreement, and out of income  or savings.
On balance I think there was likely a significant risk that Mr I would have to borrow again in 
order to meet his commitments.  So, I think Sunny ought to have realised that it was unlikely 
Mr I would have been unable to sustainably meet his monthly  repayments  for this loan.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 5 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr I loan 5. 
I understand Sunny has sold the outstanding debt. Sunny should buy this loan back  if it is 
able to do so and then take the following steps. If is not able to buy the debt back, then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
A) Sunny  should  remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on loan 5, and treat 
any repayments made by Mr I as though they had been repayments  of the principal on all 
outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr I having made overpayments  then Sunny should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then move to step C.
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr I. Sunny  shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal 
it has already written-off. 
C) Sunny should  remove any adverse  information  recorded on Mr Is credit file in relation to 
loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax Sunny has deducted, if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN22436404my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Is complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.  
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2243640