K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited misrepresented  the terms of his hire 
purchase agreement  for which it acted  as credit broker.  He wants  payments from an earlier  
agreement to be transferred to his new agreement.
background
Mr W tells us that he entered  a new hire purchase agreement  in May 2019 after the vehicle 
hed acquired  through  a previous agreement had experienced problems. He says that hed 
agreed a swap and that he was advised  by ACALs sales person that five payments from 
the earlier agreement  would be credited to the new agreement.  Mr W said that when he later 
checked the agreement he found these payments hadnt been  transferred. He feels he was 
put under  pressure to sign the new agreement and was given  false information.
ACAL told us that Mr W had first taken out a hire purchase agreement in November 2018.  It 
said hed made  a complaint in May 2019  about  issues he was having with the vehicle 
financed by that agreement. But before  hed provided any further information about  these 
problems hed entered into the new arrangement. ACAL advised that the vehicle that was 
traded in part exchange had covered  in excess of 10,000 miles during the period  Mr W had 
possessed it. And that hed been provided with all relevant documentation prior to signing 
the new agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said that Mr W had 
been provided with documentation - which hed signed - and which suggested the terms of 
the new agreement  had been explained  and that hed understood. She didnt find sufficient 
evidence to show thered been  a misrepresentation. And she didnt think  ACAL  had done 
anything wrong.
Mr W didnt agree with this outcome and said a key witness  hadnt been contacted. As its 
not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr W feels strongly about  this matter. And I understand why hed be disappointed 
to find these five payments hadnt  been  credited  if that was what he was expecting.
Mr Ws hire purchase  agreement is a regulated credit  agreement for which ACAL acted as 
credit broker. That is it introduced Mr W to the provider of the finance  for the hire purchase 
agreement. ACAL  is therefore potentially liable  for any misrepresentation made about the 
terms of the agreement by its staff.  Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into 
account. 
Mr Ws complaint  amounts to an allegation of misrepresentation.  A misrepresentation is a 
false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss as 
a result of the misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN28093092Im aware that Mr W thinks that information from a person  he describes as the key witness  
isnt available. But this service hasnt power  to compel any individual to provide information. 
And Mr W, like me, cant know  what the individual might have said to us.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
For obvious reasons  Im not able to say what was said during face to face discussions which  
took place at ACALs dealership. Whilst I do not doubt that Mr W thought  the transfer of 
payments had been agreed,  Ive reached  the conclusion that he was mistaken in that belief. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this view.
Ive seen a substantial amount of documentary information. This includes a vehicle order  
form, pre-contractual explanation  document  and a signed copy  of the new hire purchase 
agreement. In addition Ive seen  details of the first hire purchase agreement and the part- 
exchange valuation  of the previous vehicle. Taken together  Im satisfied that Mr W was 
provided with all relevant  information to allow him to make an informed decision whether to 
enter the new agreement. And I find he ought  reasonably to have  known the terms of that 
agreement didnt include the transfer of five payments from the earlier agreement.
The previous  finance agreement wasnt terminated - or the vehicle rejected - due to issues  of 
satisfactory quality. And thats not surprising. Itd travelled over 11,000 miles in around  five 
months at the time it was traded as part of the later transaction. Thats not the profile of a 
vehicle which wasnt fit for purpose  or not of satisfactory quality. So its hard to see why 
ACAL wouldve thought  it necessary to make an offer to transfer payments over to the new 
agreement. Mr W had enjoyed well above  average use of the first vehicle and I can see no 
plausible reason why he shouldnt be expected to pay for it. 
The new agreement has the same monthly repayments over the same period  as the first 
agreement. So theres no obvious  reason  why any offer needed to be made. And on a 
balance of probabilities I find as a matter of fact that no such offer was made. In the absence  
of a misrepresentation it wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to require ACAL  to either credit the 
new agreement with the five earlier payments or order it to refund them to Mr W.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2809309