K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is that she was advised  by Capital Asset  Management (CAM) to transfer 
her pension arrangements  to a self invested  personal pension (SIPP)  and buy shares in Gulf 
Keystone Petroleum and New World  Oil and Gas (now Eridge Capital Ltd). The shares have 
since fallen in value  significantly  and Mrs D believes  she was wrongly advised.
background
Mrs D had a personal pension with Aegon. It was already being used for income drawdown. 
She also had deferred  benefits in a former employers pension  scheme. She transferred the 
values of both arrangements  to a SIPP. And she also made  a cash  contribution of £4,500 to 
the SIPP. Shares  were purchased in Gulf Keystone Petroleum  and later in New World Oil & 
Gas (now Eridge Capital Ltd). The timeline  seems  to be as follows.  
13 February 2012: deposit  of £4,500 into the SIPP
20 February 2012: Gulf Keystone Petroleum investment  £4,251.74
1 March 2012: transfer  in to the SIPP  from Aegon £45,112
2 March 2012: purchase of Gulf Keystone Petroleum  £42,187.88  (confirmed by letter 
of the same date from CAM  to Mrs D saying  that following discussions CAM has
made an investment  as per Mrs Ds instructions - £42,187 into Gulf Keystone 
Petroleum and asking  Mrs D to contact  CAM if she has any questions  and to return  a 
signed copy of the letter)
5 March 2012: letter with enclosed recommendation report  from CAM to Mrs D
300 April 2012: transfer in from Mrs Ds former employers scheme £6,570.96
25 October 2012: Eridge Capital Limited investment £1,681.59.
Ive noted in particular CAMs letter of 5 March 2012 with enclosed  recommendation report.  
The letter said it confirmed the recommendations made to Mrs D as part of a recent  financial 
planning review.  And that shed instructed CAMs adviser to limit his advice to her pension  
and investing  some cash. And that Mrs D hadnt  wanted to make disclose all details  about  
her circumstances. The suitability report included the following: 
Details of Mrs Ds current employment.
That she had a pension with Aegon in drawdown. And a pension  with a former  
employer. She wanted to take her tax free cash from her pension with her former 
employers scheme  and an income  from both arrangements. Shed also been gifted 
£6,000 which she wanted to invest, leaving a small emergency  fund (£2,000).
Mrs D had previous investment experience  and a reasonable knowledge  of 
investments. Shed  been comfortable  with fluctuations in the value of her investments 
in the past. Her attitude to risk was balanced.  
A SIPP was recommended. Greater  investment flexibility was mentioned. And the 
main objective was so that Mrs D could have more control of her investment and for 
her to buy and sell shares as shed  requested.  
About  fund selection the report said: 
As requested by you, you wished to invest your fund in Gulf Keystone  Petroleum. 
Please be aware  that there may be occasions  when an individual fund or funds  may 
have a higher  risk rating  than your overall stated  attitude to risk. If this is the case, 
the overall risk rating applied to all of the combined funds being recommended  is still 
designed to meet your stated tolerance. I explained this during our meeting and you 
were comfortable with this approach. 
Some risk warnings  were set out.
Ref: DRN28133002The letter said it was important to regularly review  financial  arrangements  and it had 
been decided  that six monthly reviews would be sufficient. Mrs D had online access 
to her accounts and could  also contact the adviser  at any time.  
Mrs D took tax free cash from the SIPP and pension income of £1,500 pa. The last income  
payment was made in December 2014.  The following year the adviser told her there wasnt  
enough to take an income  payment. He said hed give her the money  himself  and, when the 
shares went back up, she could pay him back.  The adviser says he spoke to Mrs D in late 
2015 when she wanted an income payment. He stressed it wasnt  a good time be selling her 
shares and that hed lend her the equivalent to her annual withdrawal to prevent shares 
being sold and further depleting her pension plan. The adviser says he paid £1,500 into her 
account as an advance and because he considered Mrs D to be a personal friend. She 
wasnt able to pay him back as the shares never recovered. 
Mrs D complained to us in October 2018.  We forwarded her complaint to CAM. It issued a 
final response letter on 3 January 2019.  It said a transfer of Mrs Ds Aegon  pension had 
been arranged  as she wanted to buy shares  with her pension  fund.  She said she wanted to 
buy shares in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. That was her decision. Shed been advised  not to 
put all her funds into one company and to spread the risk. 
CAM referred to what the suitability report said about  the main  objective for moving to a 
SIPP was that so Mrs D could have more control  of her investment and to buy and sell 
shares as shed requested. CAM said the shares  were discussed and Mrs D had 
investigated and gathered  information  herself on the funds. Risk warnings were  also given. 
CAM said that at the time of the initial purchase  the share price for Gulf Keystone Petroleum 
was £3.59. On 20 February 2012  that had risen to £4.45 per share. Selling the shares  had 
been discussed but Mrs D elected not to as there  was speculation  that the company was a 
target for takeover. Shortly after the share  price dropped  substantially.  
CAM referred to statements issued by the SIPP provider  and said that Mrs D had online 
access to her account. CAM said Mrs Ds complaint had been made too late  more  than six 
years later. And she should  have reasonably  been aware she had cause for complaint when 
the share price  started to fall in 2012. She hadnt complained  within three years of then. 
Mrs D didnt agree. She said she hadnt  been told not to put all her money  in one investment. 
Or, when the shares increased in value, told she ought to sell them. She said the adviser 
had told her to keep the shares as it was rumoured that the company was about to be taken 
over and the shares would increase considerably  in value.  She did get statements  from the 
SIPP provider and she knew  the shares had gone down in value. She called the adviser 
several times to ask what  was happening with the shares and he told her to retain them.  She 
didnt access the online facility thats  been  referred  to. 
Mrs D has also told us how she met the adviser. And that she already knew  his sister. Shed 
come to regard him as a friend. She explained  that others in the same  social  circle had also 
invested on his advice and in the same companies  as her. Theyd  lost their money too and 
had also complained. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mrs Ds complaint. But she thought  it had been made too 
late. Mrs D didnt accept  that and the matter was referred to one of my ombudsmen  
colleagues. 
Ref: DRN28133003She issued  a provisional jurisdiction decision on 2 February 2020 and a jurisdiction decision 
on 20 April 2020. For the reasons  she set out she said the complaint had been made in time. 
The adjudicator issued her view on the merits of the complaint on 16 September 2020.  She 
said the complaint  should be upheld. In summary she said:
The investments  were too high risk for Mrs D. Her pension  only had the two 
investments and wasnt sufficiently diversified. Particularly as Gulf Keystone 
Petroleum shares formed the majority of Mrs Ds pension  fund and that increased the 
level of risk. 
CAMs adviser had said Mrs D had made  the investment choice herself. Mrs D had 
confirmed shed  asked  the adviser to go ahead but only after hed discussed the 
shares with her and others. CAMs recommendation report (issued after the SIPP 
had been set up and the initial  investment  made) showed the adviser had discussed  
the SIPP investments  before they were bought. Mrs D had gone to CAM for financial 
advice and would have taken account  of any advice  given  including  not to purchase  
the shares. 
Mrs D didnt agree with some of the comments made in the recommendation letter.  
Amongst other  things it recorded  that she was working, what  she did and that she 
had a pension  with Aegon (which was already  being used  for income  drawdown) and 
a deferred pension with a former employer. Mrs D wanted  to take tax free cash from 
that pension. And she wanted to be able to help her childrens professional  future. 
Shed received  a gift of £6,000  which she wanted to invest.  Her prime  objective was 
to create  a fund that would provide her with income in retirement. Her attitude to risk 
was balanced  and she had investment experience and knowledge. 
Theres also a fact find. Its unclear exactly when it was completed  as it appears to 
have been revised at some stage. And it isnt signed. 
Even if Mrs D had chosen the specific shares  it didnt seem  she had sufficient 
knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved in having her pension  
fund invested  in only one company. CAM should  have identified  the high risk nature 
of that investment strategy and warned  Mrs D against it. 
Shed  been  assessed as having  a balanced  attitude to risk. The investments 
represented a greater degree  of risk than shed  be able to accept. And, as the largest  
policy was already in payment, there was a risk, not only that her fund value would 
be impacted by adverse share  price movements, but that her ability  to make income 
withdrawals would  be affected too. 
No separate  analysis  of the transfer  from Mrs Ds former employers pension  scheme  
appeared to have  been carried out. Nor did it seem shed been specifically warned 
about the risks of that type of transfer.  
The adjudicator  set out how CAM should redress Mrs D. 
CAM didnt agree with the adjudicators views. It said it wanted an ombudsman  to look at the 
complaint. 
We told Mrs D that CAM didnt  agree and had asked for an ombudsmans decision. We 
asked her if she wanted to add anything.  She said CAM had sold the shares to her and 
shed bought them after being assured she was making a good investment. The adviser  
who she regarded as a friend - had purchased shares from the same company (a figure of 
£100,000 has been mentioned) and that gave her a bit more confidence, especially as 
others had also invested  heavily  in the same  company too. She was told it wouldnt take long 
for the shares to come to fruition and she believed  the adviser wholeheartedly. 
Ref: DRN28133004She said shed never had high paid jobs and what little money she had shed tried to look 
after. The pension with her former  employer wasnt a massive  amount so when CAM 
advised her to invest that too she did so in the belief that it was good  advice. Shed since  
been told by others that she should  have  had yearly reviews to make  sure the shares  were  
doing what they should be. When shed rang the adviser on several  occasions  to express 
her concerns  he told her to keep the shares.  And hed kept saying that she knew about  stock 
markets and shares. 
We asked Mrs D to clarify some details. Mrs D told us that shed  had a pension with another 
former employer which shed transferred to Aegon on CAMs advice. Shed taken a cash 
lump sum. That was before she started  working  for her current employer and had become a 
member of its pension scheme. She then transferred  her pension with Aegon and her 
deferred benefits in the other former employers pension scheme to the SIPP.  We asked 
Mrs D if shed got any paperwork about the transfer  to Aegon.  She was unable  to supply 
anything. She said most of her dealings with CAM were done verbally. 
my findings
As Ive set out above, CAM said that Mrs Ds complaint had been made too late. Although 
my colleague issued a jurisdiction  decision  were  required to keep  jurisdiction under review  
until a final decision is issued. 
Ive done that and I can agree with my colleague that, although  Mrs Ds complaint was made 
outside the primary six year period, she did complain within three years  of when she became 
aware (or reasonably  ought to have become aware) she had cause for complaint. 
Like my colleague  I think  what happened  at the end of 2015, when Mrs D wanted to take an 
annual drawdown  payment  of around  £1,500 and the adviser  advanced her that money, is 
significant. And highly  unusual.  I think what the adviser did would have reassured Mrs D 
thered be a recovery in the share  prices.  The adviser was apparently sufficiently confident  of 
that to be prepared to lend Mrs D his own money  in the interim. I can also see, as the 
adviser didnt do that again the following year, Mrs D should have realised at that stage 
something was wrong. But shed complained  within three years of then anyway.  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator as to why the complaint should  be upheld. 
Theres no dispute that CAM did advise Mrs D in connection with the setting up of the SIPP.  
CAM recommended a SIPP. I dont think it was open to CAM to advise about the SIPP 
without considering the proposed underlying investments. Giving advice on the suitability of 
a pension wrapper  generally involves consideration of the proposed underlying  assets. 
Here CAM  knew  that Mrs D intended to purchase  shares  CAM points to that as the main 
objective for a SIPP. And its clear from CAMs letter of 2 March 2012 that CAM knew the 
shares were  in Gulf Keystone Petroleum  and that Mrs D was investing over £42,187.88   
which appears to be in addition to an earlier investment of £4,251.74. The recommendation 
report also specifically mentions shares  in that company. 
I dont see that share purchase was suitable  for Mrs D. Despite what  shed apparently  said 
she appears to have had little investment  experience or knowledge. CAM doesnt seem  to 
have checked  or tested  Mrs Ds actual  experience  or knowledge.  And, even if she was 
Ref: DRN28133005experienced or knowledgeable, investing the bulk of her modest pension fund in one 
specialist company represented a considerable risk. 
The lack of diversification meant that Mrs Ds pension fund was exposed  to her higher 
degree or risk than the moderate level of risk shed  said she was prepared  to take. Some  
risk warnings were given. But they were largely generic. 
The recommendation report did say, with specific reference to investing  in Gulf Keystone 
Petroleum, that an individual fund or funds  may have a higher risk rating that Mrs Ds overall 
stated attitude  to risk. But that the overall risk rating of all the combined funds was still 
designed to meet her stated risk tolerance. But that wasnt the situation here. Mrs D wasnt 
investing a portion of her fund in Gulf Keystone Petroleum. She was investing the bulk of her 
fund. There were no other investments to balance out the risk so that, overall, her fund 
matched her moderate attitude to risk. 
The adviser has said that he told Mrs D that she shouldnt put all her money  in one 
investment. But Mrs D doesnt accept that. And theres nothing  in the recommendation 
report, which was written after the adviser had made Mrs Ds further and substantial 
investment in Keystone Gulf Petroleum.  Id have thought, if the adviser had warned Mrs D 
about investing too much in one company, the suitability  report  would have recorded that 
(although including that sort of warning  still wouldnt have made the recommendation to 
establish a SIPP suitable).
It also seems  that Mrs D had very little capacity for loss. I think  she was a member of her 
current employers pension scheme  although  I dont  think  thats  mentioned on the fact find or 
in the recommendation letter. But her benefits with Aegon  represented  a considerable 
portion of her retirement savings. The adviser  should have advised her against  transferring 
to a SIPP and investing the bulk of her fund in Keystone Gulf Petroleum  shares.  
I tend in any event  to accept what Mrs D says about  why she became interested  in those 
shares. I cant  see that shed have  been  aware of the company from her own knowledge or 
research. She doesnt seem to have any history of share purchase  or any particular 
knowledge or interest in that industry  sector or commodity. 
And what shes said about what the adviser  said in a social  setting is supported by others in 
the same  social  circle whove also complained to us. I think it would be too much of a 
coincidence that others also decided, apparently  on their own and without any discussion or 
steer from the adviser, to buy shares  in the same companies as Mrs D. 
Its difficult to know  exactly what was said. Its possible  the adviser just gave general 
information about the company and said that it might seem to be a good  investment 
opportunity  much the same way as a press article  might draw  attention  to a particular 
company and its prospects. He may have stopped short of giving advice or making a 
recommendation to invest. But from what Mrs D has said the adviser  went  further  and 
expressed an opinion   that Mrs D (and others) should invest. 
But I havent reached a firm finding  about  that. Regardless of whether the adviser  
recommended the shares, the SIPP and the proposed underlying  investments werent 
suitable for Mrs D. Thats particularly the case as she was taking an income from her Aegon  
plan and so shed be particularly impacted by falls in value of the shares  and any inability to 
sell sufficient shares to meet her income  requirements. 
Ref: DRN28133006Mrs D also transferred the value of her deferred benefits in a former employers scheme. I 
understand that was a final salary arrangement. I dont think  its likely that shed have 
transferred unless the adviser suggested it. I cant see there was any discussion about the 
guaranteed nature of the benefits being given up or any analysis as to whether the transfer  
value offered was good value. I dont think the adviser should  have  allowed  Mrs D to transfer  
the value of those benefits without further exploration  and discussion.  
But, even  if Mrs D decided herself to transfer  those  benefits, if the SIPP hadnt been set up  
and I dont think it should have been   then a transfer wouldnt have been possible anyway. 
CAMs advice was unsuitable. I dont think Mrs D should have been  advised  to transfer her 
two existing pension  arrangements  to a SIPP. I think she should have been advised to retain  
them. 
Mrs D has told us that the Aegon plan was set up following a transfer, on CAMs advice, of 
benefits Mrs D had accrued in another former  employers pension scheme. But she hasnt 
retained any documentation about  any advice.  I havent considered that earlier transfer as 
part of this complaint.  
And, although the adjudicator mentioned Mrs Ds current employers  pension  scheme and 
suggested that some redress  might  be payable, I dont see theres any issue about that 
scheme. From what Mrs D has said she joined that scheme when her employment 
commenced and shes still a member. 
In all other respects I agree with what the adjudicator said about how CAM  should  redress  
Mrs D. Ive set it out again below.  In respect  of the transfer of Mrs Ds benefits in her former 
employers scheme, Ive added some  further  details, including to reflect the regulators latest 
updated guidance and in line with its announcement on 3 March 2021.   
Id just add that sometimes we might say that a consumer should reasonably have tried to 
mitigate their losses  that is take action to stop further losses arising.  For example, where 
an investments value is falling, it might  not be unreasonable to expect the consumer to see 
that and try to sell the investment  and so avoid any further falls in value. And it might  be fair 
to reduce any compensation to reflect a failure to mitigate. But it will depend on the 
circumstances of the particular case.   
Here Mrs D has said that she did notice  the falling values of the shares. And that she called 
the adviser about it. But he told her to retain the shares. So she did take some  action  she 
queried the position with the adviser who reassured her. And I think  what  happened later, at 
the end of 2015, when  Mrs D was unable to take an income payment, was also significant. 
As my colleague noted when she considered if Mrs Ds complaint had been made in time, 
what the adviser did would have reassured  Mrs D and given her some  confidence  that the 
investment could recover. So Im not going to say that Mrs D should have taken steps to try 
to mitigate or reduce  her loss. 
what must  CAM do? 
Mrs Ds Aegon benefits
1. Compare:
A. the current transfer value of Mrs Ds SIPP in respect of the proportion of
Ref: DRN28133007the fund transferred from her earlier drawdown policy  and any additional
sum Mrs D has paid into the new SIPP; with
B. the current notional  transfer value of Mrs Ds original drawdown  policy
accounting for any payments made  into and out of the SIPP since  its inception
In both cases CAM may also account  for the payment made  directly  to Mrs D after she 
ceased to be able to make  income  withdrawals directly from the fund. 
2. If the result in A is higher than or equal  to B there is no loss and no compensation is
due. If the result in A is lower than B, Mrs D has suffered a loss. CAM must make a payment 
into her current  pension  policy such that taking into account charges and any available tax 
relief the value of A is equal to the value of B.
Mrs Ds former employers pension scheme benefits
CAM should undertake  a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance  17/9: 
Guidance for firms  on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. CAM must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ds acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
CAM must  re-run the calculation within a month  of the amended guidance being published  
ensuring any shortfall this shows  in the original calculation is promptly made up to Mrs D. 
CAM need only re-run  the calculation once,  to take account of amendments currently 
planned by the FCA. CAM does not subsequently  need to recalculate  following any further 
amendments the regulator might later make). 
Alternatively, CAM may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mrs D in 
this case.
CAM may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions  (DWP) to obtain  Mrs Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ds pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN28133008If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mrs D within  90 days  of the date 
CAM receives notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision.  Further  interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes CAM 
to pay Mrs D. 
If CAM chooses to wait until publication  of the FCAs amended Finalised Guidance before 
calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the date the FCA 
publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Capital Asset Management  Ltd must redress Mrs D as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813300