K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Ms K have  complained that Santander  UK PLC will not refund any commission  it 
received from their mortgage  payment  protection insurance (PPI) premiums  for the policy  
they took out in 1992.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr T and Ms Ks complaint about commission.  
Thats because Mr T and Ms Ks complaint about  the mis-sale  of their PPI policy  has 
previously been  considered  by our service, and our adjudicator felt that this policy had not 
mis-sold. Neither  party  responded to appeal  the adjudicators assessment, so the complaint 
about the mis-sale  of this policy was closed.
Im not upholding Mr T and Ms Ks complaint. I know this will disappoint  them, and Ill explain 
why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Santander has given  me information that shows Mr T and Ms Ks mortgage was taken out in 
1991 and ended in 2004. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
Mr T and Mrs K say that it shouldnt matter what dates their mortgage was in place  they 
should still be entitled to be treated fairly by Santander. And I thought about whether theres 
anything about  Mr T and Mrs Ks particular  complaint and circumstances that means 
Santander should do something different to what the FCAs rules  and guidance  say it must 
do. But I dont  think there  is. 
So Santander doesnt need to refund  any of the commission  Mr T and Ms K paid for the PPI 
they had with their mortgage.
Ref: DRN21091032my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2109103