complaint
Mrs W complains about the service  she received  from HSBC Bank Plc when she complained 
about a disputed transaction.
background
Mrs W made a hotel booking in August 2016 through  on online booking  company  B. She 
says she had to register her card details with B before she could  even browse for hotels. The 
booking was made on the basis  that Mrs W would not pay for the hotel until she arrived for 
her holiday   but she says the payment was attempted straight away. When  the larger sum 
of approximately  £1000 wasnt taken, the hotel attempted a smaller payment of just over
£700 which was successful.
When Mrs W complained  to HSBC,  the money was refunded to her whilst HSBC looked into 
matters for her.
HSBC made  enquiries with the hotels bank  and carried  out a chargeback  (a process  which 
allows payment disputes  to be resolved between card issuers  and merchants).  Based on the 
evidence provided  by the hotel, it decided it could not uphold Mrs Ws complaint and wrote  to 
Mrs W to tell her.
Mrs W then told HSBC that she had cancelled  the booking  so HSBC  wrote to her asking 
her for supporting evidence. But a response  was not received from Mrs W and after a few 
failed attempts at making contact, HSBC then re-debited  the funds from Mrs Ws account.
In its final response,  HSBC offered to cover any overdraft charges  but did not think it could 
do anymore. It had already agreed to pay £100 for the poor service it said Mrs W had 
received along  the way.
So, Mrs W came to this service and asked that we look at her complaint  for her. In summary, 
she said HSBC should not have allowed the transactions without  seeking  her authority first, 
the service provided  by HSBC was poor, it had corresponded to an incorrect email  address 
and finally, she had been provided  with incorrect information from her local branch.
Our adjudicator did not think she could ask HSBC to do anymore. But Mrs W was not happy  
and asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN2202806hotel transaction
It has been explained to Mrs W that this service  can only look at HSBCs role with regards 
this transaction   not the hotels. So, when Mrs W entered her card details and instructed 
that she authorised the payment (albeit with the mistaken belief that it would not be taken
straight away), HSBC is expected to act on those  instructions. A bank cannot  reasonably  be 
expected to contact  its customer every time a transaction is due to leave  the account in
order to ensure it has been authorised..
I know  Mrs W argues that she did not have sufficient funds in her account  but the 
parameters set by HSBC in relation to its customers account are not, generally  speaking, 
something which this service would interfere with.
Once the transaction had been debited, I can see that it was returned by HSBC  pending its 
investigation.
The investigation showed that the booking was made on a non-refundable basis and so, 
under the relevant card scheme rules for a chargeback procedure, HSBC told Mrs W that it 
would not be able to uphold her complaint.
Mrs W then provided  very limited  information in further support of her complaint which  
resulted in the money being re-debited.
In the circumstances,  I think  HSBCs  decision was a fair and reasonable one.
additional service  complaints
Mrs W says HSBC corresponded to the wrong  email address and that her local branch had 
the correct one. This service has asked HSBC for confirmation of this but have been 
advised that the member  of staff in branch has now left the company.
I have considered whether this has impacted on Mrs W and her complaint and whether the 
outcome would have  been any different if it had used the correct  email address. I dont think  
it would. Mrs W knew she had to submit evidence in support of her complaint  and she did. 
If there  was anything  else which would have  supported her, I have no doubt that this would  
have been sent to the complaints team at HSBC.
And I can see that attempts were made to contact Mrs W when her phone line was 
disconnected on three occasions but HSBC was unable  to speak to her.
HSBC is unable to confirm whether Mrs W was indeed given incorrect information by her 
local branch. Mrs W says she was told that if she had not had a response about her 
complaint within  eight weeks, she was to assume that the matter had been  resolved. 
However, what it has confirmed is that it had sent an eight week holding  letter advising that 
the matter was still under investigation.
And finally, Mrs W says that her debt has now been  passed onto a debt collection agency. 
Again, I have  no further submissions from HSBC in relation to this matter  but if the debt 
has indeed been  passed on, I would expect HSBC  to respond positively and sympathetically 
if Mrs W now finds herself in financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN2202806my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC has responded fairly  and reasonably  to Mrs Ws complaint. I
will not be asking it to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2018.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2202806