K820x#14complaint
Ms Fs unhappy with the way Santander  UK Plc has allocated her credit  card payments.  
background
Ms F had a 0% balance transfer  offer on her Santander  credit card.  She says most  of her 
outstanding balance on 27 February  2019  was therefore interest free. In March 2019 she 
purchased a holiday on the understanding that any repayments she made  to the card would 
be allocated to this amount  first as it was the highest  interest bearing portion of her 
outstanding balance. But this didnt happen and she found out the money she paid in had 
instead reduced the 0% part of her balance.  Shes  unhappy with this.
Santander said in its final response that Ms F made  a payment of £1,700 into her account on 
19 March 2019  and this amount was taken  from the amount she owed on her previous 
statement which covered  transactions from 28 January  to 23 February  2019.  But this 
payment wouldnt  be applied against  the transaction of £5,242 she made on 15 March 2019 
for the holiday as that would be included in the next billed  balance and statement. It can only 
allocate payments  to balances that it has produced bills for and informed her of in 
statements. As the payment for the holiday hadnt  yet been billed or appeared on a 
statement the payment  of £1700 was used against the amounts billed and showing on her 
last statement. Interest  had been  charged  on the new holiday  payment in line with the 
accounts terms and conditions and it couldnt  reverse the allocation of Ms Fs payment. But 
as a gesture of good will it would refund the first months interest. 
Santander subsequently refunded £85.39 interest in May 2019.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The account statement says that Ms F will not pay interest  on new purchases  if she 
pays her balance in full and on time each month. If the account isnt paid in full 
interest will be charged on the daily balance. And the key facts  document says 
Santander will pay off balances that are already on Ms Fs statement first.
This shows  that any repayments Ms F made wouldve gone towards paying off her 
balance transfer  first as it was already  on the account before she bought the holiday.  
Santander has also charged interest  in line with its terms and conditions and she 
cant ask it to refund any more  interest.
Ms F has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The simple  fact is the payment for the holiday hadnt  yet been billed and included in a 
statement when Ms F paid in the £1,700 to her account. As result  the payment she made 
was applied against her previous statement balance and used to reduce the 0% interest part 
of what was outstanding.
Ref: DRN20298102Although this isnt what Ms F expected or hoped  for, it was in line with the accounts  terms 
and conditions which Ms F had been  made  aware of and were  set out on her statements and 
in the accounts key facts. And as Ms F didnt  pay off in full the outstanding balance  on the 
last statement Santander was also entitled  to charge  interest on the new purchase she made 
for the holiday.
So, although  I understand Ms Fs frustration, Santander hasnt  done  anything wrong. But it 
has, as a gesture of goodwill, refunded one months interest of £85.39. I think  thats fair. And 
I dont think I can reasonably ask it to do anything more.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2029810