K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs K say Bradford & Bingley  Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. Even though  this was a joint 
mortgage, only Mr K was insured under the policy for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The policy was free for six months  but following this they paid a monthly 
amount for the cover. If Mr K had made  a successful claim, the policy would have paid out 
the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs K have  said it wasnt made  clear that the policy  was optional. But I think B&B 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it 
out. Ive been  given  a copy of the mortgage  application form which was completed at the 
time and this includes a section  about PPI. In this section there is a box which  needs to be 
completed with either yes or no, depending  on if you want to take out or decline the 
insurance. On Mr and Mrs Ks form I can see that the word  yes has been entered in the box 
to confirm they wanted the insurance.  If Mr and Mrs K didnt want to take out the PPI, they 
could have entered no into the relevant box. There are also options to choose depending 
on the level of cover required and also the amount of benefit that the applicant wishes to 
receive. I can see that these boxes  have been  completed on Mr and Mrs Ks form to show  
that cover  for accident, illness and unemployment  is required and a monthly benefit of £350  
was chosen. Both Mr and Mrs K have signed the form which  suggests they agreed with 
everything that had been entered.
Mr and Mrs K say B&B insisted on them taking out the policy.  I cant know  with certainty 
what Mr and Mrs K were  told when they were  sold the PPI and I accept they may have felt 
pressured. But I havent found  any other evidence to support that they were told by B&B that 
the mortgage wouldnt be approved without PPI. And the paperwork doesnt suggest that this 
is what happened. The initial application form completed allowed Mr and Mrs K to say no to 
any form of PPI. This isnt something I would expect to see if the PPI was a condition  of the 
lending. Its also worth noting that Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage offer doesnt  set out PPI as a 
mandatory condition  of the new borrowing.
So on balance, I think its most likely  that the policy was presented  as optional. 
Ref: DRN22583172B&B says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. Mr and Mrs K disagree. Based on 
what B&B says happened when it sold the policy, I think its more likely that it didnt provide 
advice. This means  B&B didnt have to check if the cover was right for them.  But it did have  
to make sure Mr and Mrs K got the information they needed to decide for themselves if it 
was right for them. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI when completing the application  form - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen  of Mr Ks 
circumstances at the time (as the only insured person)  it doesnt look like he was affected  by 
any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for 
them if something went wrong. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs K have said they struggled financially which they say would have 
been contributed  to by the PPI. But I can see that the mortgage offer included  the 
information about the cost of the premium and so I think they would  have known how much 
they would  have to pay for the policy, after the six month free period. And I havent seen any 
other evidence to show that the policy wasnt affordable.
Mr and Mrs K have  said they werent made  aware  that the policy wouldnt cover the full term 
of the agreement. B&B may not have told Mr and Mrs K that any claim they made would  be 
limited to a 12-month  period.  This may have differed from what  they expected  and might  
have hoped for. But 12 months  was likely to be a longer  period  than Mr K would have 
received full sick pay for and any redundancy  entitlement was also likely to be significantly 
less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs K would still have thought  a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly  mortgage  payments would have been  of benefit to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr K be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time, ensure their home  was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr Ks sick pay or redundancy money 
for other  use.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K because:  
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs K any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN22583173B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs K the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs K 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs K can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs K.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2919.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2258317