K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
FirstRand Bank Limited trading as MotoNovo Finance was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants to reject the vehicle.
background
Mr A tells us he acquired the vehicle in June  2018  through a dealer Ill refer to as C. He 
says the vehicles been involved  in two accidents  due to faults,  firstly with the wheel and 
latterly with the brakes. He now wants to reject  the vehicle.
MotoNovo told us that about a month after acquiring the vehicle  Mr A had told C that it had 
been involved in an accident due to the wheel failure. It said C had repaired the bodywork 
damage. A few months later it said Mr A had again  contacted C - this time about  an alleged  
handbrake fault. It said C had asked Mr A to provide a diagnosis from a garage  local but 
hadnt heard  back from him. It said it offered Mr A up to £200  to help towards  obtaining an 
independent report.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said that C had 
repaired the damage to a wheel hub and bodywork as a result  of the first accident  reported 
by Mr A in July 2018. And as hed seen no evidence of any fault with the handbrake he 
wasnt able to ask MotoNovo  to do anything else.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A seems  to have experienced some problems with this vehicle and I can 
understand that also being involved in two accidents  with it would be a distressing 
experience.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. MotoNovo supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA).
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - Im required to make my 
findings on a balance of probabilities. That is I decide what  I think  is the most likely 
explanation to account for the circumstances.
Ive been provided  with information which shows that Mr A reported the vehicle had been 
involved in an accident due to wheel failure in July 2018. Ive seen an internal invoice dated 
7 December 2018 from C which shows the vehicle  was subject  of repairs  - at no cost to Mr A 
- and this involved work on the wheel hub as well as bodywork repairs. Its my understanding 
that C paid for the hire cost of a replacement vehicle during the period of repairs. Thats fair 
and reasonable and Ive seen nothing to suggest the repairs  have failed. So I shant be 
asking MotoNovo to do anymore  about this aspect of the complaint.
Ref: DRN20881932I can also see that from the outset the account fell into arrears and the first two monthly 
payments were missed.  MotoNovo issued  a default  notice although it seems this was 
returned on 16 January 2019 as it was reported  Mr A no longer lived at the relevant address.
Notes from MotoNovo record that the vehicle was then impounded by the police on or 
around 18 January  2019. It seems that this was due to issues  with the validity  of Mr As 
driving licence. Subsequently, MotoNovo sold the vehicle and applied  the funds it received to 
Mr As account. From what  I can see from the account statements theres an outstanding 
balance of over £6,800.
Mr A hasnt provided any plausible evidence of any fault with the brakes on this vehicle  at 
the time of supply.  Hes sent in photographs but these dont show the cause  of any failure. 
And as the vehicle  passed a MOT test, without  advisories, on 15 June 2018 prior to it being 
supplied to him Id expect  any faults  with the brakes  - if indeed  there  were  any - to have 
been identified.  
In summary,  in the absence of any reliable information regarding  the alleged  faults  theres 
nothing to show the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply. In those 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask MotoNovo to do anything  else.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr A Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088193