K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about a decision  by Lloyds Bank  Plc to withdraw his credit card. 
background
On 3 January  2019, Lloyds wrote to Mr A telling him that they would be closing his credit 
card account. They  explained that this was because American Express,  who the card was 
with, had decided  to end its licencing agreement with them.  They gave Mr A two months 
notice of the closure. 
Mr A wasnt  happy with the decision  to close his credit card account so he made a 
complaint. Lloyds didnt accept  that they had acted unfairly or unreasonably. So Mr A 
brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator found that Lloyds hadnt  done anything wrong in closing the account. 
Mr A didnt accept that decision  so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr A wont be happy with my decision. I wont  be upholding this complaint. I think  
that Lloyds were right in closing Mr As credit  card account. I will explain why. Before I do, 
please note that this complaint relates solely to Lloyds decision to close  the credit  card 
account. Im not dealing  with their decision to refuse Mr A an alternative  credit card as this is 
dealt with elsewhere. 
Ive seen Lloyds  letter dated 3 January 2019.  It is clear that to me that they had no 
alternative but to close the credit card account  because American Express was ending  its 
licencing agreement with them. 
So, I then considered whether Lloyds gave Mr A sufficient  notice  of the closure.  I think  that 
the two months  notice  was fair notice  of the closure. 
My finding  is that Lloyds  acted fairly  and reasonably  in closing the credit  card account. They 
had no choice but to close it and they gave reasonable  notice in doing so.
Im sorry  that this isnt the decision that Mr A was hoping for. I hope that Ive clearly 
explained why Ive reached this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont require  Lloyds Bank Plc to do anything  else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN26836812Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683681