K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Novaloans Ltd, trading as Cash4unow  (Cash4unow)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Cash4unow provided to Mr A between August 
2017 February 2018 and Mr As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
takenDate 
repaidInstalments Amount Maximum 
repayment*
1 18/08/2017 27/10/2017 3 £100 £43
2 01/12/2017 29/12/2017 3 £150 £74
3 26/02/2018 27/07/2018 4 £200 £83
*Please note these figures  have been rounded up/down.
In our most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld Mr As complaint in part and thought  
loans 2 and 3 shouldnt have been given. Our adjudicator said that had Cash4unow carried  
out sufficient checks, it would  have seen that Mr A was having problems managing money   
at the time of taking out loan 2 he had borrowing from seven other lenders and it was 
unlikely he would have  been able to sustainably repay loan 2, or any subsequent loans.
Cash4unow has said it did complete the relevant credit  checks  but didnt think  the loans 
were unaffordable and that Mr A was adequately managing his repayments. 
Cash4unow disagreed so the complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash4unow needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash4unow should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN21448102the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash4unow was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Mr A has accepted our adjudicators opinion about  loan 1. Because of this I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about  this loan. So I wont  be making a decision about  this 
lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr A had with Cash4unow. So it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other  loans he took.
Cash4unow asked  for Mr As monthly  income, which he said was £1,440. It asked for his 
monthly expenditure, which  he said was between £1,025 and £1,275.  It also carried out 
credit checks before  each  loan and didnt think there was any evidence of financial 
difficulties. However, I dont agree with Cash4unows interpretation of the credit checks  I 
think the checks should have raised  concerns and prompted further checks.  
When loan 2 was taken out, the credit check showed that since  loan 1 Mr A had opened 
three new accounts and his last short-term loan was taken out the month before. The credit  
check also showed that his account  balance for a loan had increased  from £1,671  (when 
loan 1 was taken) to £2,511 (when loan 2 was taken). When looking at all of this, I think 
Cash4unow should have questioned what it had been told by Mr A  particularly his 
commitment for other ongoing short-term loans he had with other lenders. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 2 and 3 would most likely have 
shown that Mr A was having trouble in managing his money.  It was clear from Mr As 
monthly outgoings that he was spending a lot of his monthly income on repaying  other  short-
term loans. Ive seen  that Mr A already  had a significant number of existing  short-term  credit 
commitments when  he applied for loan 2 and that by the time he asked for loan 3, he was 
repaying ten other high-cost creditors.  It was clear from this that Mr A wasnt  using these 
high-cost loans to deal with a short-term cashflow  problem. So, in these circumstances, 
Ref: DRN21448103Cash4unow ought to have  realised  it was unlikely Mr A wouldve been  able to sustainably 
repay loan 2  and any subsequent loans. 
So, I think it was wrong for Cash4unow to provide loans 2 and 3 and I think  it should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Cash4unow  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 and 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 and 3 from Mr As credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash4unow to take off tax from this interest. 
Cash4unow must give Mr A a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. Novaloans  Ltd should  
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2144810