K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about the size of the refund Admiral Insurance  Company Limited 
gave her in connection with her motor insurance  policy.
background
Mrs Bs car was in a minor  incident  (the incident) when her passenger opened her cars door 
while another car passed by. There was no significant damage  to Mrs Bs car. She told 
Admiral about the incident. It said it would treat it as a fault claim unless, after six months, 
the other driver still hadn't made  a claim.  During that period Mrs Bs policy  renewed and her 
premium increased by around £553.  The other driver didn't claim against Mrs Bs policy. 
Admiral amended the record of the incident  from fault to notification only (non-fault). It paid 
Mrs B a premium refund of around £31. Mrs B didn't think  that went far enough and brought  
her complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Bs complaint. She said that while she thought 
Admiral had calculated  Mrs Bs base premium  fairly  she noticed  that an additional charge to 
protect Mrs Bs no claims discount (NCD)  had increased from £11 to £171.  Our investigator 
said she didn't  think  that was fair. So she said Admiral should refund the increase, of £160,  
to Mrs B and add simple  interest to that refund. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 February 2021.  For ease I've copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mrs Bs renewal  premium increased  significantly  after she told [Admiral] about the incident. 
And its apparent  she was expecting the premium  to reduce significantly once the claim was 
closed as not being her fault.  But while Admiral did pay Mrs B a refund of around  £31, that 
still meant that her premium had increased by over £522 compared to the previous year.  So 
I can understand why she was concerned  about  such a steep increase in premium. But that 
doesnt mean Admirals  done anything wrong.
Were not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell an insurer  how much it 
can charge for its policies.  Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer  what factors it should  take 
into account when  assessing risk in order to calculate a premium. Different insurers  will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter  of 
commercial judgement and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And we generally  take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
people with the same circumstances in the same  way - insurers  are entitled  to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
Mrs Bs premium  remained considerably  higher than it had been before the accident even 
after Admiral  changed it to non-fault. And Admiral explained to Mrs B that even non-fault 
incidents will affect premiums. Thats because many insurers  say their statistics show that 
drivers whove had non-fault incidents  are more likely to go on to be involved in fault claims 
later. And for insurers like Admiral its the incident  itself, rather than whether or not a claim 
was made,  which  affects the risk a driver  poses. And Admiral reflects that increased risk in 
the premiums it charges.  
Ref: DRN27189832But there were other factors that affected Mrs Bs premium. And Admirals shown us details 
of how its risk assessment has changed for Mrs B at renewal. Having considered that 
information I can see that there were a number of other factors, unrelated to the incident that 
have affected  the premium. That information is commercially sensitive, so I can't share  it 
with Mrs B. But having looked  at it carefully,  Im satisfied Admiral treated Mrs B as it would  
other consumers with similar circumstances.  So, I don't think it calculated Mrs Bs premium 
unfairly.
Mrs B indicated that she wouldnt have renewed  with Admiral if shed known that her 
premium would remain high after no claim was received. That might have been the case, but 
Admiral didn't tell her that her premium would reduce to its previous level if no claim was 
made, only that it would  recalculate it. And that's  what it did. 
Further, I've seen that Admirals charge to protect Mrs Bs NCD, which formed part of the 
overall premium, climbed steeply at renewal. But as I've said above, how much an insurer 
charges for its policies,  including  for things  like extra costs  to protect NCD, is something an 
insurer is allowed to decide for itself. So, if Admiral  decides to increase the cost to protect 
NCD in certain circumstances then it may do that. And its for Admiral  to decide how much it 
wishes to charge in order to make a profit while attempting  to retain its customers business. 
And Admirals clearly decided that, in Mrs Bs circumstances the cost to protect her NCD 
was affected by the change in risk. Thats a decision  its entitled  to come to. Its also worth 
noting that, as Mrs B is aware, she was under  no obligation to renew with Admiral. She could 
have looked for a policy from a different provider but chose not to do so. But I don't think  that 
was because Admiral  treated  her unfairly. So, I don't think it would be fair to instruct Admiral 
to refund any more  of Mrs Bs premium.
developments   
Mrs B didn't  agree with my provisional  decision.  Amongst  other  things she didn't think it was 
fair that Admiral should increase her premium so significantly, especially as no claim was 
made against her policy and Admiral didn't suffer a loss. 
Mrs B added that she rang Admiral when her policy  was due to renew noting the increase in 
premium. But Admiral  told her shed receive  a refund once the claim closed as non-fault. 
She said that I should listen  to the relevant phone-call. And, as Admiral promised her it 
would refund the increased premium, she didn't look for a policy  with another insurer.
Mrs B also said she didn't think it was fair that our investigator had recommended that 
Admiral pay her a refund  of £160, but I had removed that recommendation, which added to 
her overall costs. 
Admiral had no further comments to add.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Mrs B doesn't think it's fair that Admiral  increased  her premium by so much,  particularly as 
no claim was made against her policy. But as I said in my provisional  decision, much of the 
increase in Mrs Bs policy wasn't caused by the incident. And Admiral considers that its the 
involvement in the incident itself, rather than whether  or not a claim was made, that changed  
Ref: DRN27189833its perception of the risk she posed  as a policyholder. And I think  it treated her as it would  its 
other customers in similar  circumstances. So I don't think it calculated  her premium unfairly.
I listened to the call during which Mrs B spoke with Admiral  about her renewal premium 
before issuing my provisional decision.  And Admiral didn't  promise it would return  her 
premium to its original level. Instead  it said it would recalculate it if the claim closed as 
non-fault. And that's  what it did. I recognise  that recalculation didn't produce the outcome 
Mrs B was hoping for. But Admiral  didn't give her any guarantee that her premium would 
reduce to its previous level. And I don't  think it dealt  with her unfairly. 
Further, I can understand Mrs Bs disappointment that I didn't instruct  Admiral  to pay her a 
premium refund, even  though our investigator  had recommended that. But we operate  a two 
stage process: consideration by an investigator; and if either  side doesn't  agree,  a fresh  look 
by an ombudsman like myself. Thats what happened here. Admiral didn't agree with our 
investigators assessment, so the case came  to me to review.
And, in every case, I consider all the evidence independently. I then come to my own 
conclusions about  what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome, regardless of what 
our investigator has recommended. Its not unusual or uncommon for an ombudsmans  
decision to be different to an investigators. And, thats what  happened here. That is, for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I don't think Admiral  had unfairly  increased  
Mrs Bs premium,  and as such Im not going  to instruct it to pay Mrs B a refund.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2718983