K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains that Marshall Motor Group Ltd (MMG) mis-sold a fixed sum loan 
agreement to her.
background
Ms J took receipt of a new car in September 2015. She thought she was entering into a 
Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) like the ones shed had before. She says she was 
persuaded that was the case  because  the sales agency agreement  said it was to be a PCP 
Advantage deal.  But she was subsequently  disappointed to discover she had in fact entered 
into a fixed sum loan (FSL) with MMG. This loan didnt allow her to voluntarily terminate  her 
agreement and wasnt secured on the vehicle as she wanted it to be. So she complained to 
MMG.
They said that the agreement Ms J had entered into did have the features of a PCP. There  
was a lower monthly  payment and there was a balloon  payment at the end of the agreement;  
the mileage was restricted and there was a guaranteed minimum future value. They  said the 
pre contract credit information provided to Ms J had explained the rights  of withdrawal and 
that there  was no reference to being able to voluntarily terminate the agreement. They  said 
theyd spoken  with the sales agent who sold the agreement to Ms J and hed told them  hed 
thoroughly explained the credit offer. They were therefore satisfied that it hadnt been mis-
sold to her. 
But Ms J disagreed and she referred her complaint to this service  where  our adjudicator  
provided his opinion. He noted  that the explanation  document provided before the 
agreement was signed, explained what could happen if Ms J didnt keep up with 
repayments. It was clear from this document, he said, that the loan wasnt  secured on the 
car. He thought  the finance agreement could fairly be referred to as a PCP and he didnt 
think it would  be reasonable to hold MMG  responsible  for Ms Js assumption  there  would be 
rights to voluntarily terminate the agreement.  He reviewed the paperwork and thought  there 
was evidence that MMG  had explained the credit agreement to Ms J. He understood she felt 
financially exposed when  she realised  the finance  wasnt secured on the vehicle  and that 
shed therefore  made  overpayments  to end the agreement  early. But he couldnt agree there 
was sufficient evidence  to suggest  the finance  agreement had been mis-sold to Ms J and he 
didnt think MMG needed to take any further action.
But Ms J disagreed and she asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Ms J so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN24555542board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms J acquired her car under a fixed sum loan agreement which is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement. As a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
I understand that Ms J has had other PCP type agreements where voluntary termination 
rights were  given and the loan was secured on the vehicle. Thats  not the case with this 
agreement although  I dont think MMG mis-represented  it when calling  it a PCP Advantage. 
This isnt how its referred to on the credit  agreement where its called a fixed sum loan but I 
think its fair to say that the key characteristics  of a PCP are that the depreciation of the car 
and not the full value  is being financed.  They  usually have smaller monthly payments and a 
larger balloon payment at the end. And I think thats the case  with the agreement  that was 
provided to Ms J. I dont  think voluntary termination rights are a necessary feature of a PCP 
and whilst the credit would, I think,  usually be secured against the vehicle I note that the 
fixed sum loan agreement explains that its not in this case. Thats not unusual  on a fixed 
sum loan.  
I can see that the pre contract information explained  the withdrawal rights  but theres no 
mention of voluntary termination rights. It also explained that it was a fixed  sum loan and 
explained what would happen if payments were missed. I think  it clearly  explained  that this 
could result in court  action rather than simply a repossession of the car. Whilst I understand 
these documents  are complex and wordy  I think its reasonable to expect Ms J to have 
considered them before she signed an agreement for this amount  of money. 
Im persuaded that the business most likely  also provided a sufficient explanation of the 
agreement. Theyve  supported their assertion that was the case with signed documentation  
and whilst I understand Ms J disputes what was said; its clear  what  was written provides an 
accurate reflection of the key features of the agreement.  I dont think  it would be reasonable 
to expect MMG  to explain every type of finance that may be available  to Ms J but I do think  
she could expect them to clarify whether the finance  was suitable. Ive not been persuaded 
they were presented with sufficient information at the inception  of the deal to suggest Ms J 
wouldve needed a different type of product.
So overall, Im not persuaded that MMG need  to take any additional action here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2455554