K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc rejected a claim he made under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision. In that decision 
I explained why I wasnt minded to think it would be fair and reasonable to say that Lloyds  
needs to reimburse  Mr D for the glasswasher or cover the costs  of its repair.
I include an extract from that decision here: 
In October  2014, Mr D used his personal  Lloyds credit card to buy a commercial  
glasswasher. 
In September  2017, Mr D contacted Lloyds  to make a claim under section 75. He said the 
glasswasher had been sold with an unfair warranty because its manufacturer  is based 
abroad and doesnt offer any technical  assistance in the UK. Mr D explained he wouldve 
opted for a different  machine that came with a labour and parts  warranty if hed been told 
that he needed to pay labour costs for repairs and that he would only receive  any new parts 
upon return of the old ones. 
Lloyds said Mr D needed to substantiate that there  was either  a misrepresentation or a 
breach of contract.  It was unwilling to help Mr D any further unless he obtained an 
independent report  showing the glasswasher has a manufacturing fault. 
Mr D pointed out that an engineer could only identify the exact  reason for the problem with 
the glasswasher by stripping it down. He said that an expert report would cost more to obtain 
than what the machine  is worth. As he was dissatisfied with the decision Lloyds had reached 
on his section 75 claim, he contacted us. 
Our adjudicator said there wasnt enough  evidence  to show  any manufacturing fault had 
occurred. So she didnt  think  Lloyds needed to do anything further. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He pointed  out that 
he was unable to send the part to be investigated  because Lloyds refused to reimburse him 
for the inspection costs.  He reiterated  that the warranty  was misrepresented  to him. 
Mr Ds complaint has now been passed  to me to consider. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
this complaint, but for different reasons to our adjudicator. 
I have to decide what, if anything, Lloyds should do to resolve Mr Ds complaint. To do that, 
I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to (amongst other things)  
any relevant law. In this case, relevant law includes section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. 
Ref: DRN25239092In some situations, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against either the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of the credit used to purchase them  if theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. But there  are considerations 
that have to be made before looking at whether  a breach of contract  or misrepresentation 
has occurred, which includes establishing a debtor-creditor-supplier relationship between  the 
parties.
This means  the person  who paid for the goods,  the debtor, should have a contractual  
relationship with the company who supplied the goods, as well as with the credit card 
company, the creditor. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr D used a Lloyds credit  card he holds in his own name to buy the 
glasswasher. The credit card statement that Ive seen confirms  this. But this isnt alone 
enough for me to go on to look at whether a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation has 
happened. I also need to be satisfied that Mr D as the debtor directly contracted with the 
supplier of the goods. Whilst I recognise  that Mr D doesnt agree, this is the issue  that is 
currently in dispute  here.  
For me to agree that the debtor-creditor-supplier  relationship exists, the contract for the 
supply of the glasswasher would need  to be between Mr D and the supplier, not between his 
limited company and the supplier. Mr D has told me the glasswasher was a personal 
purchase delivered to his business address. To try and clear  up this point, I looked  at the 
paperwork from the time the glasswasher was supplied. 
One sales invoice  that Ive seen  uses Mr Ds name in large letters. In the order  section it 
gives his personal  address  as the billing address and the shipping address as the premises  
of his limited company.  But theres  a second invoice that uses  Mr Ds name and the trading 
name of his limited  company in the billing address  and the shipping  address is the address 
of his limited company.  
Mr D wasnt able to clarify  where  this difference came from or provide me with any further 
documentation from when  the glasswasher was ordered. He said that the original invoice 
didnt matter in any case because it would show he was the buyer and the delivery address 
wouldnt change that. He said the moment he paid with his personal  credit card, the 
agreement is formed between him and the supplier. 
Given the ambiguity  around who the contracting party with the supplier actually was, and its 
importance to this matter,  I contacted the supplier for further  clarification.  As a result, the 
supplier provided a copy of a sales note to Mr D. The sales note has the address of Mr Ds 
limited company on. It also contains an account  reference that clearly relates to his limited  
company. 
After looking at the sales note, Mr D said the glasswasher was a personal purchase 
delivered to his limited  company. He said I should  weigh up all of the evidence  and that its 
clear the invoice that only uses  his name  should be the one I rely on. 
Having thought carefully about everything  that Mr D has said and provided on this point, 
Im unable to agree  with him. 
Ref: DRN25239093If Mr D was entering into the contract in his personal capacity, its unclear to me why any 
connection to his limited  company would need to feature on any of the suppliers 
documentation. I accept  Mr Ds point  that people do get items delivered  to work addresses 
for convenience.  But Im not persuaded that this is what was happening  here.  
Im also mindful of the fact his limited  company  would reasonably need to use a glasswasher  
like this one in the course of its day to day operation. And its not the type of glasswasher 
someone would typically use for personal  use. 
Whilst Mr D paid for the glasswasher,  for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think it was 
being supplied  to him. I think  that the contract to supply the glasswasher was with his limited  
company and not with Mr D personally.
I realise that Mr D will be very disappointed with my position. But I cannot fairly say there  is a 
valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship in these  circumstances. So it follows  theres  no 
basis for me to be able to say that Lloyds has any liability  to Mr D under section 75. 
As noted above,  I have to take into account  relevant law and section  75 is very relevant to 
Mr Ds complaint. I dont consider that there are any good reasons to depart from the law on 
the facts of this complaint. And so I dont think it would then be fair and reasonable to say 
that Lloyds needs to reimburse Mr D for the glasswasher or cover the costs of its repair.  
responses to my provisional  decision  
Lloyds responded to say that it had no further  information to provide, nor any additional 
comments to make.  
Mr D didnt agree and said I didnt understand the difference between an invoice and a 
delivery note. He pointed out that he had provided  two documents   an invoice clearly 
stating his name as the purchaser  with one of his companies as the delivery  address and a 
document from the supplier with the delivery address that says on it that its not a VAT 
invoice. He said that a delivery  note is not an invoice and shouldnt be considered to be one. 
Mr D felt the inclusion  of the name of another one of his companies on the documentation  
from the supplier cant be considered as evidence. He said the account name is created 
automatically to fill the field once the document is raised. 
Mr D added that the company that was included on the documentation  from the supplier 
doesnt need or use a glasswasher. He said that the glasswasher was bought  by him for his 
own personal use and although delivered to his business, was for his own cellar. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about the points Mr D has made. But I still think  the outcome 
I proposed in my provisional decision was fair for the reasons set out in my provisional 
findings above and here. 
Ref: DRN25239094As I explained in my provisional decision,  there  needs to be a direct link between  Lloyds, 
Mr D and the supplier of the glasswasher.  Whilst I accept Mr D paid for the glasswasher 
using his personal Lloyds credit  card,  I am not sufficiently persuaded that it was supplied  to 
him. 
Its not in dispute  that the paperwork the supplier has been able to provide about the sale of 
the glasswasher references one of Mr Ds limited companies. I dont agree that this 
document is delivery advice, especially as the supplier describes it as a sales  order. Mr Ds 
position is that the company named on this particular document  is only involved in selling 
wine online  and has no use for an industrial glasswasher. Hes said that the glasswasher 
was for his own cellar  and was delivered  to his business premises for convenience.
If Mr D was entering into the contract in his personal capacity, its unclear why any 
connection to any of his companies  would feature on the suppliers sales documentation.  
The document is clear  and I cannot  ignore it. 
Despite everything  Mr D has said, I dont  consider that the debtor creditor supplier 
relationship has been created here. So I dont have any basis  to say that Lloyds has any 
liability to Mr D under section 75.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, I have to take into account relevant law and section 75 
is very relevant to Mr Ds complaint. I dont  consider  that there are any good reasons to 
depart from the law on the facts of this complaint. And so I dont think  it would then be fair 
and reasonable to say that Lloyds  needs  to reimburse Mr D for the glasswasher or cover the 
costs of its repair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ds complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2523909