K820x#14complaint
Miss K isnt happy  that Lloyds  Bank PLC passed  a refund for interest and charges on to the 
firm they sold her debt to (who Ill call C). 
background
Lloyds carried out a review of a number of customers accounts.  It was identified during this 
review that Miss Ks account  hadnt  been managed correctly. Lloyds felt the account should 
have been passed to recoveries sooner  than what it was. Had this been  done, then some 
interest and charges wouldnt  have been applied. So Lloyds decided to refund this.
Lloyds had previously  sold the debt to C in 2013. So from this date any payments made 
would have gone to C and not Lloyds. This was why Lloyds sent the refund to C to be offset  
against the remaining balance. 
Miss K isnt happy  the refund was sent to C and not to her. She was told as part of the 
investigation into a previous complaint she had with us that the debt had been written  off. So 
Miss K felt she was entitled to the refund and not C.
An investigator looked at this complaint and felt Lloyds had acted correctly. He said the 
evidence hed seen  showed the debt hadnt  been  written off. So Lloyds was entitled to pass 
the refund  on to C. Our investigator noted  that on the linked complaint wed told Miss K the 
debt had been written  off. But this was based  on information Lloyds gave us at the time. But 
it turned  out the debt hadnt  been written off. Our investigator apologised that wed 
previously relied on information  that turned out to be incorrect.  But given that the debt 
remained outstanding,  it was reasonable for the refund to be passed  on to C.
Miss K disagreed with this outcome. So the complaint has been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is lacking  or inconsistent, Ill reach my decision based on what  I think is 
most likely to have happened. The issue here is whether Lloyds was entitled  to pass the 
refund on to C. Its also whether Lloyds ever told Miss K theyd be writing off the outstanding 
debt.
Once Lloyds reviewed the account  and decided it hadnt been managed correctly, Id expect 
them to take appropriate steps. I can see they took these  by identifying that certain charges 
shouldnt have been applied. Given Lloyds no longer owned the debt, its reasonable they 
passed the refund on to C. I say this because the amount refunded  wasnt  money that 
Miss K had wrongly overpaid. They were  amounts  that had been  added to the account that 
were never paid off  and were therefore sold on to C as part of the overall  debt. And the 
balance sold to C is still outstanding. So its right that the refund goes to C in order to reduce 
the amount Miss K owes.
I therefore conclude  that Lloyds treated Miss K fairly when  it passed  the refund to C.
Ref: DRN22404002I can see from Lloyds file that the account was sold to C in 2013. I can see that before this 
date Miss K spoke to Lloyds on a few occasions  about the debt.  But there isnt anything 
which suggests that Lloyds ever agreed to write the debt off.
As far as the refund is concerned, I dont think it matters whether or not the debt had been  
written off. Thats because the refund still wouldnt have been  paid to Miss K (as it wasnt 
money shed paid. All it would have meant was the amount  Lloyds had written off originally 
would have been reduced.
I can nevertheless appreciate the confusion caused as we told Miss K that Lloyds had 
written the debt off when  looking into previous complaint. Weve already provided  an 
explanation to Miss K about this under separate cover. As part of my review I contacted C 
and they explained that after buying the debt they sent a letter to Miss K explaining that the 
account had been assigned to them. They  also sent a separate  letter on the same day 
asking her to contact them to discuss payment. Ive seen copies of these and they were both 
sent to the correct address. This is the address  we and Lloyds  hold on file for her. So Ive no 
reason to suspect  that Miss K didnt receive  these letters.
Ive also looked  at the final decision my colleague  issued in relation to Miss Ks previous 
complaint. The decision said The details I have say that the loan ended up being written  off. 
But by Miss Ks testimony  it sounds as though  Lloyds sold the loan debt on to a third party  
which is equally possible.
With all that in mind, I think its reasonable to conclude that Miss K was probably aware that 
the debt hadnt been written off but had been  sold to C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2240400