K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complained she was mis-sold  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mrs H took out the PPI in September 2004  when  she applied for a credit card. BoS both said 
the sale took place during a meeting and that Mrs H was advised to take the cover. Mrs H 
said she wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, and nor was she given information 
about it.
The policy cost 78p per £100.00 owed. If Mrs H had successfully claimed  on the policy  for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month  it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Hs credit card agreement. This shows  a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all of the information on the form, including  Mrs Hs 
income and employment details.  So I think its likely that the form was printed out after a 
discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed part of that discussion. I consider it 
reasonable to think that Mrs H would have looked  over the form she signed, even if only 
briefly. So, on balance,  I think  Mrs H was aware of the PPI and was given a choice about 
whether to take it - and that she agreed  to it. I think she probably just doesnt  remember 
doing so after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Mrs H to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mrs H wouldve been  affected by any of 
these. 
Mrs H told us she couldnt remember what sick pay she wouldve been  entitled to from her 
employer, and had no other ways of meeting the monthly repayments on the credit card if 
she couldnt work. So I think she could have found  it difficult to make  the payments  if shed  
been off sick or lost her job. And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim. So I dont think there  was anything wrong with BoS recommending  the 
PPI. 
Ref: DRN27549452Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs H. As Ive said, I cant  know 
how the adviser explained the policy, or when Mrs H mightve  been  given a policy summary  
or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and benefits  may not 
have been as clear  as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Hs circumstances, I dont think more detailed information  about the cost 
and benefits wouldve changed her decision to take the policy.  It couldve provided useful 
protection if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs H 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs H now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754945