K820x#14complaint
Mr D is represented. His representative says Kippax Financial Services Ltd (Kippax)   
formerly Malcolm  Proctor  Financial Services  gave him unsuitable advice  in 2013 to switch  
his Personal Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP) and that it is also 
responsible for the SIPPs investment in unsuitable  unregulated  Loan  Notes  (LNs). 
background
I issued a detailed  Provisional  Decision (PD) for this complaint on 18 January 2021. A copy  
of the PD is attached below, so I will not repeat  the complaints background. The 
abbreviations defined and used  in the PD apply in this decision.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the PD. Kippax said it accepted  the PD and it does 
not appear to have  made any further comment. Mr Ds representative  confirmed that he 
does not accept the outcome in the PD and, in the main, it made the following comments:
It summarized its understanding of the findings  in the PD and said those findings  
mainly on Kippaxs failings  are enough  to uphold the complaint. [comment 1]
The PD wrongly states that Mr D claims Kippax initiated the idea of a commercial  
property investment. He has never made  such  a claim. [comment 2]
The PD wrongly says Mr D did not want advice. He asserts  the opposite and argues 
that had Kippax properly addressed the matter of suitability  within  the advice he 
needed and sought  other  issues showing unsuitability  would have  come  to light and 
he would  not have been advised  to conduct the pension switch.  [comment  3]
The PDs description of Mr Ds profile  confirms his vulnerability  at the time. Kippax 
was obliged to undertake additional  work  for him in this respect  but did not. 
[comment 4]
A critical  consideration in the PD is about  Mr D pre-determining matters in the 
pension switch. The PD says he pre-determined the switch to the SIPP and the 
selected SIPP provider,  and that because  of this, suitable advice would probably not 
have made a difference. He disputes this. He affirms that he wanted advice, and that 
the fact that [he] had a strong  view of what he wanted  does not change the fact 
that Kippax acted  incorrectly, provided  poor advice and failed to meet their regulatory 
obligations. [comment 5]
The PD wrongly provides a charter permitting advisers to circumvent the rules and to 
avoid responsibility  for advice. The PD conveys the wrong  message that  provided 
that the client appears at first glance  to be wealthy with a strong opinion [the adviser] 
need not worry. [comment 6]
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments  including  the comments 
made by Mr Ds representative in response to the PD  to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I have not been persuaded to depart 
from the findings and conclusion in the PD. I retain  those findings and conclusion,  and I 
incorporate them into this decision.
I address Mr Ds (and his representatives)  views on the PD as follows:
Comment 1
Ref: DRN27664912The findings  in the PD are as expressed therein  and as attached  (below)  to this decision. 
Mr Ds representatives summary  of those findings appear to be reflective of the main points 
addressed in the PD. However,  where  ever the summary conflicts  with what  the PD 
expressly states, it follows that the contents  of the PD prevail. The PD does indeed  highlight 
Kippaxs failings. However,  they were/are not enough to uphold  the complaint and the sub-
section from the PD quoted directly below  clarified  why  despite those failings  Mr Ds 
complaint should  not be upheld.
Causation  and Provisional Conclusion
Kippax was wrong in recommending and making arrangements for the switch   in 
considering the idea of switching between the PP and SIPP  suitable  for Mr D and in 
concluding that the proposed commercial  property investment was suitable for him. Mr D did 
not invest in commercial property. He invested  in the unregulated LNs which, in the context 
of the pension switch, is what he has complained about. I am not satisfied that Kippaxs 
failures establish causation in his complaint and it is for this reason that I do not consider the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
Overall, there is notable strength in evidence that shows  Mr D (with support and/or  influence  
from the introducer)  was determined to switch the pension  in any event. I am persuaded that 
he would  have done so even if he was advised against it by Kippax. In addition, there 
appears to be no credible claim or evidence that he would have retained the assets in the 
PP if he was told they were better for him than the proposed commercial property 
investment. Instead,  the balance of evidence  shows  the opposite  and shows  he intended to 
invest in something else in any event.
Mr D says the idea of an alternative  investment  and the commercial  property investment 
arose from Kippax.  Evidence defeats this claim.  I have referred,  above,  to documentation 
that shows presentation of the commercial  property investment idea was put together 
between him and the introducer before he was introduced to Kippax; that shows the 
introduction referred  to this and to the selection  of Mr Ds preferred SIPP provider; that 
shows Kippax was asked  by the introducer to enter  into an agreement  with the SIPP  
provider at the outset in order to execute  the plan, before it had engaged with Mr D; and that 
shows the SIPP providers pre-switch illustration also presented  the commercial property 
investment idea (which  probably resulted from the meeting  he appears to have  had with the 
managing director  of the SIPP provider  before he was introduced  to Kippax).  It is fair and 
reasonable to conclude  from these  facts that Mr D was pre-determined to switch his PP to a 
SIPP, that he was pre-determined to use a specific SIPP provider, and that he (and the 
introducer) initiated  and presented to all concerned the commercial property investment 
idea.
Then evidence shows  that Mr D invested  in something different  the unregulated LNs  
beginning around three  weeks  after the pension switch was completed. His plan to do so 
was disclosed to neither  Kippax nor, it appears, the SIPP provider. There  is no evidence  of 
advice sought  and obtained, about the LNs, by Mr D from an alternative source. I consider it 
probable that the LN investment idea had also been pre-determined, either before he 
engaged with Kippax or at a time before  the switch was completed. It appears implausible 
that he could have acted  with or without  alternative advice  so differently to the objective 
he presented and maintained between those two points (engagement with Kippax and 
completion of the switch) and so quickly, without  such  pre-determination. 
Ref: DRN27664913For the reasons  given  above, I am not persuaded that suitable advice from Kippax would 
have made  a meaningful difference to Mr Ds actions. Those actions  (including  his 
investment in the LNs) would probably  have been  executed irrespective of such advice. It is 
more likely (than not) that he would have declined  advice about unsuitability  of the switch 
and that he (and perhaps the introducer) would then have looked for another  adviser to 
facilitate the switch in order execute his intended  investment  plan. 
My provisional conclusions are that Mr Ds investment in the unregulated LNs was not 
advised by Kippax; that Kippax recommended the unsuitable commercial property 
investment idea but that investment never happened; that it had no cause to consider or 
anticipate any other  investment being made by Mr D; that it recommended the unsuitable 
pension switch, but Mr D would have switched his pension  even if he was advised  not to; 
and that, overall  and for these reasons, there is not a direct and unbroken chain of causation  
between Kippaxs unsuitable  advice  and Mr Ds investment in the unregulated LNs (or his 
claim that they are unsuitable or the loss he claims for them).
I do not consider  that Mr D and/or  his representative have said anything  that, on balance, 
calls the above  finding(s) into question.
Comment 2
In response to the PD, Mr Ds representative  said I was wrong to say (in the PD) that he had 
claimed the idea of a property investment arose  from Kippax. His representative says he 
denies ever making  such a claim,  that he had never said  Kippax came to him with the 
investment ideas  and that his claim  had been  that he went  to Kippax with the idea for 
an investment and assumed that they would assess the suitability of his idea and perform 
due diligence  on the proposed investment.
Relevant submissions  prior to the PD include Mr Ds email  of 22 July 2020, in which he told 
us   it was always my intention to spread my investments across a number of investment 
products to limit my risk and I communicated  this to Kippax. Prior to this email he had 
spoken to us about the complaint  our records say this happened on 15 June 2020   and 
we summarised the contents of the conversation  to Kippax for its comments. The summary 
included reference  to a claim from him that his initial objective was not to invest  in property. 
In Kippaxs response of 15 July 2020, it quoted  the claim  and addressed it. Kippaxs 
response was forwarded  to Mr D on the same date, and he replied in the email of 22 July 
mentioned above.
I consider that Mr Ds reply of 22 July essentially maintained the position  that the property 
investment was not his idea. The quote  from that reply, as set out above, says his idea was 
different  that it was to spread investments across a number of investment products. The 
quote is consistent with the claim that the idea to invest only in property was not his. 
Kippaxs reference  and response to the claim was shared with Mr D and he did not appear to 
correct it or to make the correction that has now been submitted. Instead, the quote from his 
reply on 22 July appears to have  affirmed the claim. Overall, I consider that the 
aforementioned communications,  prior to the PD, provide support for the PDs reference  to 
the claim.
Comment 3
The PD included  the following  
Ref: DRN27664914April 2013  On the 24th of this month the introducer wrote to Kippax and introduced  Mr D 
as an  equity director in a property  development company  and as a sophisticated  
investor. He said Mr D wanted  to use his pension to invest in commercial  property,  that he 
had already met with the Managing Director of the SIPP provider and that he wanted to 
achieve a switch of his pension to that provider.  He said he had arranged  for both Mr D and 
the Managing  Director of the SIPP provider to expect contact from Kippax. On the same  date 
Mr D signed a client agreement with Kippax.
The financial report  signed by Mr D  included confirmation that he wanted Capital Growth  
and wanted to retire at age 60; that his main instruction  was to switch  funds  from his PP to a 
SIPP  in order to purchase a commercial property; that the property was then to be used 
by his employer;  that he did not wish to consider any alternative pension  arrangement;  that 
he wanted to use the specific SIPP provider, and did not want to be recommended any 
other, because he personally  [knew]  the proprietor 
 evidence shows that [Mr D] did not want advice on whether (or not) to switch  his pension 
into a SIPP,  instead  he knew  that was what he wanted to do and he sought  assistance to get 
it done; he did not want advice on which SIPP provider to use, instead he knew and had 
decided upon  the SIPP provider he wanted  and he sought assistance  in executing the switch 
to that provider; and he did not want advice on how to invest  the SIPP,  he presented  a plan 
to invest in commercial property and did not disclose the alternative  plan he appears to have 
had to invest in LNs.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  and retain  the finding that Mr D did not want  advice; and 
the quotes above show that this finding was well reasoned within the PD. I acknowledge that 
he disagrees with the finding, but I have  not seen anything in Mr Ds representatives 
comments that calls the credibility of the finding (and the reasoning  behind  it) into question.
Comment 3 also makes  Mr Ds argument  that matters would have been different if advice on 
unsuitability had been given to him by Kippax, as it ought to have been  given.  The PD 
contents I quoted  in response to Comment 1 includes  the reasoning behind  my conclusion  
that the chain  of causation argued  in favour  of Mr D is not supported by the balance of 
evidence  which, instead, shows that he would  probably have conducted the pension switch  
and made  the underlying LN investments in the SIPP with or without  suitable  advice. Again, I 
acknowledge that this is another finding he disagrees with, but I have  not seen anything  in 
his representatives  comments  that calls its credibility into question.
Comment 4
This comment does not appear to add any value  to the findings  that have already been  
made about Kippaxs failings or to the consideration of those  failings.
Comment 5
I consider that my treatment, above,  of comments 1 and 3 caters for the points that have 
been made under comment 5. In a nutshell, Kippaxs failings have been identified and 
determined, but the balance of evidence shows that they made no difference to the pension 
switch and underlying investments that were performed by Mr D (and that he has 
complained about). 
Comment 6
Ref: DRN27664915Mr Ds complaint has clearly been addressed and determined on the specific facts within  it 
and on its own merits (or lack of). I do not accept that the findings in the PD have  the generic 
effect that his representative says, or suggests,  they have. The findings gave/give detailed  
treatment to Kippaxs  failings in the case and they do not convey an unreasonable message 
in that respect.  
No findings have been based upon  the notion  of Mr D being  wealthy, in fact the PD 
included the following  
Mr D earned a good salary and had a high level of net monthly income but, as I set out 
above, he had over £400,000 in liabilities. Overall and if equity in his home was disregarded, 
he appears to have had a negative net worth . This presented  a notable lack of capacity for 
loss. [my emphasis]
In terms of Mr D having a strong opinion, no negative inferences were  drawn  from that. The 
following finding illustrates this  
 there is evidence that Kippax  was aware of, and expressly undertook,  the responsibility 
to advise on suitability  of the proposed commercial  property  investment. However,  because  
of those circumstances, the task before  Kippax was essentially to discharge its responsibility  
(in the manner required  by the regulations and guidance set out above) whilst  also reflecting 
what Mr D expressly  said he wanted to do. It had to assess suitability, inclusive of Mr Ds 
instructions. That did not mean it could simply and only facilitate what  Mr D wanted to do. 
That meant that it had to give advice on whether (or not) what Mr D wanted to do was 
suitable for him. [my emphasis]
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2021.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman 
Copy of Provisional Decision 18 January  2021
complaint
Mr D is represented. His representative says Kippax Financial Services Ltd (Kippax)  formerly 
Malcolm Proctor Financial Services  gave  him unsuitable advice in 2013 to switch his Personal  
Pension (PP) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  and that it is also responsible for the 
SIPPs investment in unsuitable unregulated Loan Notes (LNs). 
background
A summary  of key events  is as follows:
Ref: DRN27664916April 2013  On the 24th of this month the introducer wrote to Kippax and introduced Mr D as 
an  equity director in a property development company and as a sophisticated investor . 
He said Mr D wanted to use his pension to invest in commercial  property,  that he had already 
met with the Managing  Director of the SIPP  provider  and that he wanted to achieve a switch 
of his pension to that provider.  He said he had arranged for both Mr D and the Managing 
Director of the SIPP  provider to expect contact from Kippax.  On the same date Mr D signed  a 
client agreement with Kippax. A key facts document, about Kippaxs investment advice 
service, also appears  to have been given to him. 
On the 26th Kippax wrote  to Mr D. It summarised its understanding of his pension switch and 
commercial property investment objective and it enclosed  blank fact-finding documentation  for 
him to complete. On the same date the SIPP provider  wrote to Kippax and said it had been 
asked by the introducer to do so, in order to arrange  an agreement with Kippax that would 
allow it to refer Mr Ds pension  switch  business. On the 29th Kippax  entered into an 
agreement with the SIPP provider  for this purpose, then the provider sent (on the same date) 
documentation to Kippax, to forward  on to Mr D in order to apply for the SIPP. 
The fact-finding document was completed by Mr D by the 30th of this month. In the main, the 
document recorded that Mr D sought only pension  planning advice; that he was 45 years old 
and married with dependents; that he was employed  (the document  says he had been  a 
Director of a property development company for three months) and was a higher  rate tax 
payer; that he had net monthly income  of £8,650, an outstanding mortgage of around 
£300,000 on his home, debts of around £13,000, a second property (with an outstanding  
mortgage of £100,000) and the PP (worth around £190,000), which was presented as his only 
pension arrangement; that he elected to be treated  as a professional client (and signed  a 
declaration to the effect);  and that he had a high Attitude to Risk (ATR ), based on his 
responses to a risk profile questionnaire.
May 2013  On the 9th of this month Kippax wrote  to Mr Ds PP provider.  It enclosed his 
signed authority and referred to the pension  switch. It also enquired into the documents  and 
process required  for the switch. This provider replied on the 10th. It confirmed that the PPs 
transfer value at the time was £192,519.38 and that the PP could be transferred only in cash. 
On the 17th, it sent Kippax more  information on the PP and a breakdown  of its contents and 
their values (around  15% of overall value in bonds, around  70% of overall value in equities  
funds (mainly UK, American and European  funds  and then an emerging markets  fund and two 
Far East funds), around 10% of overall  value in a Gilt based fund and around 5% of overall  
value in a commercial property fund). On the 23rd Kippax sent Mr D switch related documents 
to complete, sign and return. It also forwarded  to him key features, fee structure and 
illustration documents  from the SIPP provider.  It sent Mr D its financial  report  (advice letter)  
on the same date. On the 31st his completed application  documents  were sent back  to the 
SIPP provider.
The illustration document from the SIPP  provider  included reference  to Mr Ds chosen 
retirement age of 60 and to the SIPP being invested completely (100%) in property.  
The financial  report  signed  by Mr D  included confirmation that he wanted Capital Growth  
and wanted to retire at age 60; that his main  instruction was to switch funds  from his PP to a 
SIPP  in order to purchase a commercial  property; that the property was then to be used 
by his employer; that he did not wish to consider any alternative pension arrangement;  that he 
wanted to use the specific SIPP provider,  and did not want to be recommended any other, 
because he personally [knew] the proprietor; advice  that he should  bear in mind  the high 
risks in his commercial property investment  plan,  given  the lack of diversification and liquidity 
in such  investments; an invitation to contact Kippax in the future  if he wanted a review; and 
confirmation that Kippaxs one-off fee (with no ongoing charge) was £1,000.
Kippax says it learnt, during a conversation with Mr D in this month,  that he had a 7.5%  
shareholding in his employers  company  and that his plan was to buy commercial  property 
Ref: DRN27664917through the SIPP and then have it used by the company. Kippax says it later learnt, last year 
(after referral of the complaint to this service), that Mr D had misrepresented  his stake in the 
company, that Companies House records show he held a 0.7% (not 7.5%) shareholding from 
11 April 2013 and that the same records show the introducer was also a shareholder  of the 
company at the time. 
June  2013  On the 5th of this month Kippax sent Mr D documentation  confirming completion  
of the transfer.  The documents included  the SIPP plan schedule, another  illustration and a 
key features document. The SIPPs  transaction statement shows  that around £188,000 in 
cash was transferred into the SIPP  on the 17th; on the 27th £40,000 was invested  in the first 
LN; on the 28th £25,000  was invested in the second LN and, on the same date, £40,000 was 
invested in the third LN.
The SIPPs transaction statement shows that on 20 September 2013 £40,000 was invested in 
the fourth LN. All the LN investments were made by Mr D with assistance from the introducer  
and he also stood as witness to the application forms that Mr D completed for them.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  He noted 
there was a lack of evidence that Kippax knew about and/or advised  on the LNs, but he considered 
that it treated Mr D more like an execution only client when he was not such a client.  He took the view 
that Kippax should have done more to assess suitability  of the switch. He also highlighted  the 
regulators alert to the industry  in 2013 which reminded  firms of their responsibility  to assess suitability 
of the underlying investments intended  as part of a pension transfer or switch. 
The investigator concluded  that Kippax should have advised Mr D against the switch because  it was 
unsuitable for him, that evidence does not support his classification as a professional client, that 
Kippaxs advice in support of a commercial  property investment within  the SIPP  was unsuitable and 
that if Mr D had been advised against the switch and the commercial property investment it is unlikely 
he would have proceeded with the switch  so it is also unlikely he would have had a SIPP to invest  in 
the LNs. Mr D accepted this outcome, but Kippax  did not and asked for an ombudsmans decision (if 
the investigator did not change his view).  In the main, Kippax said:  
It did not treat Mr D as an execution only client. It followed his instruction  to execute the 
switch to the specific SIPP provider  and, but for that instruction, it would not have  
recommended that provider.  It completed due diligence  on the provider. Mr D did not seek  
advice on suitability of investment in commercial property, that too was part of his strict 
instruction, but it assessed suitability in this respect anyway. It was satisfied that the 
investment matched  his investor profile.
It had no awareness,  or cause to be aware, of Mr Ds plan to invest in the LNs and it cannot 
be held responsible for that. Had he disclosed that plan to Kippax it would have advised  
against it (and the switch). There is evidence that earlier in 2013 it declined an invitation  from 
the same introducer to advise  a different client on unregulated investments. Its email reply  to 
the introducer confirmed that, as a matter  of policy, it did not advise on such investments.
It is wrong to say Mr D would not have proceeded with the switch  had he been advised  
against it. Evidence shows he and the introducer had the preconceived  plan to switch the 
pension and invest  in the LNs in any event, so even if it advised against  the switch  they would 
have found another financial  adviser  to facilitate it.
The investigator did not change his view and the matter  was referred  to an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I have  reached a provisional conclusion  that 
differs from the investigators. 
Ref: DRN27664918Regulatory Context
Primarily, I have considered  the following:
The regulators Principles  for Businesses, within which Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct 
its business with due skill, care and diligence;  Principle  3 requires a firm to take reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly  and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems; and Principle 6 requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators  Conduct  of Business  (COBS)  rules,  within which COBS 2.1.1R requires  a 
firm to act honestly, fairly  and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its clients 
and in relation  to designated investment business  carried on for a retail client;  and within 
which COBS  9.2.1R sets out a firms obligation to assess the suitability of investments  
recommended to its clients. 
The regulator  issued a pensions related industry alert to firms in 2013 which  I have also considered. It 
included the following:
It began  with this statement  It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention  that some financial 
advisers are giving  advice to customers on pension transfers or pension switches without 
assessing the advantages or disadvantages of investments proposed to be held within  the 
new pension.  
It continued  to say  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice generally 
requires consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given 
on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other 
wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and 
the expected underlying  investments in unregulated schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing 
a wider investment strategy, the advice  on the pension transfer must  take account  of the 
overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating.;  and  if you give regulated 
advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items you cannot  
separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements. [my emphasis]
The regulator  reinforced its views in a further alert in April 2014 and said;
We believe  pension  transfers or switches to SIPPs intended  to hold non-mainstream propositions  are 
unlikely to be suitable options  for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms operating  in this market 
need to be particularly careful to ensure their advice  is suitable.
Where  a financial adviser recommends  a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or switch from 
a current  pension  arrangement to release  funds  to invest through  a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
underlying investment must form part of the advice  given to the customer. If the underlying investment  
is not suitable for the customer, then the overall  advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a 
SIPP, then it should not offer advice  on the pension  transfer or switch at all as it will not be able to 
assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole.
The views expressed by the regulator  in 2013 (and then in 2014) did not create new rules. They 
reflected pre-existing provisions, as set out in and arising from the Principles and the COBS rules  
summarised above.
Essentially, Kippax needed  to obtain  the necessary information regarding Mr Ds knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the advice, his financial  situation and his investment 
objectives. With the subject matter being a pension switch, Kippax was also obliged to enquire  into 
Ref: DRN27664919why the switch was desired and to assess its merits (or otherwise) in the context of the given 
reason(s). 
These requirements prompted key and unavoidable  questions, related to the clients  circumstances at 
the time, which Kippax was expected to address in the course of providing  its advice. Such questions 
included  Why is the client interested  in switching?  Are the clients reasons reasonable and are they 
in his/her best interest?  Given the clients  overall circumstances, should  the firm recommend the 
switch? 
Each case can of course be different, but the switch must be in the clients best interests in order to 
make the advice suitable. It should be worth  the movement away from the previous pension 
arrangement and should,  in practical terms, have prospects of being better than previous  pension 
arrangement  otherwise  there would  arguably be no point  in switching and no justification  in incurring 
costs associated  with a switch. It follows that there is also an expectation that, as part of the firms 
advice, a comparison  is made between the clients old pension and the proposed new one.
In 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension  switching. It highlighted four key issues it 
thought should be focussed on:
- Charges - has the consumer been switched  to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits  in the switch without good reason? This could 
include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate or the 
right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded  attitude to 
risk (ATR) and personal  circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched  into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained,  offered or put in place.
Did Kippax  meet its regulatory obligations in assessing suitability of Mr Ds proposed  pension 
switch?
Kippax could  not have conducted itself with due skill care and diligence, it could not have carefully 
and reasonably organised  and controlled  its advisory service to Mr D and it could not have upheld Mr 
Ds best interests if it did not discharge its advisory  service  to Mr D in the manner set out above.
As a preliminary point, I share  the investigators view that Mr D was not properly  assessed as an 
elective professional  client.  Specific regulations and processes applied in this respect. I have not seen 
evidence that Kippax properly  met the regulations or followed the prescribed processes in its 
categorisation of Mr D as an elective professional  client. However, this is not a pivotal  finding. I have 
not considered  the complaint  with the view that Mr D was a professional client  instead,  I have done 
so on the basis that he was a retail client.
Overall, evidence  of Kippaxs service to Mr D prompts the perception  that its focus on facilitating the 
switch outweighed its focus on conducting a thorough and detailed  assessment of suitability in the 
manner it was required  to do. 
Kippax should have  conducted detailed advisory comparisons  between  Mr Ds PP and the proposed 
SIPP (including areas such as structure, terms, benefits  and charges) in order to illustrate Mr Ds 
options to him and in order to support  any recommendation of the proposed switch. It did not do this. 
It should have provided a similar illustration  of the comparisons between  the underlying contents of 
the PP and the underlying investment intended  for the SIPP, as a part of the basis for any 
recommendation of the underlying property investment.  It did not do this.
Ref: DRN276649110Kippax never met with Mr D personally and I consider that this limited the extent to which it could 
properly discuss with him the serious matter  of a pension  switch.  For example,  the full reason(s) 
behind the switch would  probably  have been discussed in person, that did not happen and there is no 
evidence of an alternative form of meaningful discussion in this respect. There  are parts of the 
instructions from Mr D and parts  of the contents in the fact-finding document  which ought reasonably 
to have given Kippax cause to enquire  further. For example, and importantly, it should have obtained  
specific details about Mr Ds proposed property investment, including  how it was to be established, 
associated initial and ongoing costs  (aside  from the investment capital)  and its commercial prospects.  
It did not do this, so it denied itself details  relevant to its overall assessment of suitability and denied  
itself a basis to conduct  the underlying investment comparison I mentioned above,  given that it did not 
know enough  about the proposed commercial property  investment. 
The result  of the above  failings is that Kippax lacks  grounds on which  to say it properly assessed and 
advised upon  suitability  of the pension  switch that it ended up recommending. The due diligence  it 
says it conducted on the proposed SIPP provider was no more than that  due diligence  on a 
proposed SIPP provider. Distinct from any such due diligence is advice on whether  (or not) the 
proposed switch was in Mr Ds best interests. Without having made enquiries into the full reasons 
behind Mr Ds desire to switch, without due consideration over the merits  (or otherwise) of the 
reasons he would have given and without having conducted  the thorough comparison exercise 
mentioned above, Kippax  is without  evidence to show that it independently assessed  and considered 
the switch suitable for Mr D. 
Kippax appears  to have assumed that the switch was suitable because that was what Mr D (and the 
introducer) said he wanted  and because the switch  was needed to cater for his commercial property 
investment plan. This did not discharge its duty to assess  suitability. Its advice letter  includes an 
annex with generic  information about aspects of a pension arrangement, but this does not mitigate  its 
failure. The requirement, and expectation, was for Kippax to conduct  an independent, detailed  and 
subjective assessment of suitability of the switch  and there is no evidence that it did so. 
There is also a lack of evidence  that the switch was suitable for Mr D  that is, that it was in his best 
interests and that it was better  than his previous PP arrangement (based on meaningful  application of 
the checklist  summarised  above). If Kippax  considers the counter argument that the switch was in his 
best interests because it allowed him to make the commercial property investment he wanted  to 
make, it should remind itself of the regulatory  rules and guidance set out above. In this context,  the 
switch did not become  suitable just because it was a convenient  means  by which Mr D could invest  in 
commercial property.
Did Kippax  meet its regulatory obligations in assessing suitability of Mr Ds proposed  
commercial property  investment?
There is no evidence  that Kippax was aware  of a plan to invest the SIPP into the LNs  either the 
specific LNs or LNs in general   so my consideration focuses on the proposed commercial  property 
investment.
Kippax had the same  regulatory  duty (as addressed  above) to independently assess suitability of the 
underlying investment proposed for the SIPP.  As the regulators  alerts said,  there is a distinct 
responsibility upon a firm to anticipate  that a pension switch can subsequently create a vehicle  for 
investment in other products. It is for this reason  that firms hold responsibility for assessing  suitability  
of the switch and of the underlying investment. In Mr Ds case the underlying investment he made 
was not what he disclosed to Kippax. However, it remains necessary  to consider if Kippaxs advice in 
support of the commercial property underlying investment that it was aware of, was suitable. 
I do not consider  that Kippax treated Mr D like an execution only client.  However,  the way he (and the 
introducer) approached  Kippax could explain why circumstances in his case were unlike those  usually 
found in cases where a client seeks advice on the merits (or otherwise) of a pension  switch (and 
underlying investments). I am persuaded by evidence  that Mr D essentially gave Kippax  a strict set of 
investment instructions to execute. Said evidence  shows that he did not want advice on whether  (or 
Ref: DRN276649111not) to switch  his pension into a SIPP,  instead  he knew that was what he wanted to do and he sought  
assistance to get it done; he did not want advice  on which  SIPP provider to use, instead he knew and 
had decided  upon the SIPP provider  he wanted and he sought assistance in executing  the switch  to 
that provider; and he did not want advice on how to invest the SIPP, he presented  a plan to invest  in 
commercial property and did not disclose  the alternative plan he appears to have had to invest  in LNs. 
Despite the above circumstances,  there is evidence  that Kippax was aware of, and expressly 
undertook, the responsibility to advise  on suitability of the proposed commercial property investment. 
However, because of those circumstances, the task before Kippax was essentially to discharge  its 
responsibility (in the manner required by the regulations and guidance set out above)  whilst also 
reflecting what Mr D expressly said he wanted to do. It had to assess  suitability, inclusive of Mr Ds 
instructions. That did not mean it could simply  and only facilitate what Mr D wanted to do. That meant 
that it had to give advice on whether (or not) what Mr D wanted to do was suitable  for him.
As far as Kippax was concerned the commercial property investment was the only reason for the 
switch. If that investment was unsuitable it should  have  advised against the switch.  I have considered  
if Kippax owed more to Mr D on this point, mindful of the regulators expectation that firms anticipate  
how a switch  can be used  to create a vehicle for subsequent  investments and mindful of the 
regulators expectation that firms refrain from advising  on a switch if they do not understand the 
underlying investment proposition. 
If the proposition in Mr Ds case was unclear,  I would expect Kippax  to have anticipated  that the SIPP  
could potentially be used  for unsuitable investments that it was not, or had not been made, aware of; 
and with any such lack of clarity it should have either advised  against the switch or refused to advise 
on it. However, this was not the case for Mr D. As I said in the previous sub-section, the details of the 
proposition were not looked into by Kippax so those  details would have  been unclear (or unknown) to 
it. However, I do not consider that the proposition  itself was unclear. Kippax  was consistently and 
repeatedly informed  by Mr D, the introducer and the SIPP  provider that commercial property  was the 
intended underlying investment. That was clear enough,  and in such circumstances  I am not 
persuaded that Kippax should have anticipated any other possible underlying investment.  
As I also said in the previous  sub-section, Kippax did not satisfy itself that it was worthwhile  or 
suitable  for Mr D to move from the underlying investments in the PP to a new commercial property  
venture under a SIPP. It did not conduct  a comparison/assessment in this respect so advice on this 
was missing from its recommendation. On this basis, it failed to establish that the proposed alternative 
investment was better than the funds in the PP. I consider  below whether (or not), and in insolation, 
commercial property was a suitable investment for Mr D.
His professional background and his predetermined commercial property investment plan for the 
SIPP are relevant. Earlier,  I noted that the fact-finding document recorded he had been a Director  in a 
property development company for three months when it was competed. Evidence in the public  
domain about his wider, and relevant, Directorship background as of 2013 shows that he held Director 
positions in a number  of construction  and property management companies between 2005 and 2013.
I share the investigators view that investing 100% of a SIPP into commercial  property is more  likely  
(than not) to be unsuitable  too risky (including the risk of illiquidity) and significantly, if not 
completely, lacking in diversification. In Mr Ds case I have also considered the following   he was a 
Director in a property development company  and had professional experience related to commercial 
property investments and/or  projects;  the extent of that experience is as I summarised directly above;  
I appreciate that Kippax does not appear to have made enquiries at the time to establish this, but if it 
had this is what it probably would  have  discovered; he had a pre-existing commercial  property fund 
within the PP that he transferred out of, so he had some comparable personal investment  experience 
in this regard; he completed fact-finding documentation that confirmed his high ATR, which would  not 
have mismatched  the risk profile of commercial  property investments; and he had an end-use plan for 
the commercial property  he intended to buy and was a Director in the company he said would be the 
propertys end-user.  
Ref: DRN276649112The above elements support suitability of the commercial property investment plan for Mr D, but on 
balance I consider  that they were  outweighed by unsuitability arising from his lack of capacity for loss 
and from the pension context in which the investment took place. The lack of diversification and 
illiquidity risks also added to the unsuitability  of the investment.
Mr D had no other pension arrangement, and I have not seen anything  in his wider financial  
circumstances that suggest it was suitable for him to place all his funds, which were required  for his 
income in retirement, into such a venture.  In the absence of an additional  (and competent) pension 
arrangement  that is, an alternative  arrangement for his livelihood in future  retirement  care had to 
be taken with the PP. Even if his high ATR supported  high risk investments  it did not justify the lack of 
diversification. Such diversification provided a form of risk management  at any ATR level. It also did 
not justify commitment to an investment with illiquidity risks, especially within a pension and especially 
given the inherent need for liquidity when the pension reaches maturity. 
Mr D earned a good salary  and had a high level of net monthly  income but, as I set out above, he had 
over £400,000  in liabilities. Overall and if equity in his home was disregarded, he appears to have had 
a negative net worth.  This presented a notable lack of capacity  for loss. So much so that it inevitably 
called into question his high-risk ATR. Even if he wanted to be a high-risk taker, he did not have the 
financial capacity to do so suitably. Equity in his home would not have been suitable  spare  financial 
capacity.
For the above  reasons,  the commercial property investment proposed by Mr D was unsuitable for him 
and Kippax was wrong to reach the opposite conclusion.
Causation and Provisional Conclusion
Kippax was wrong in recommending and making  arrangements for the switch  in considering  the 
idea of switching  between the PP and SIPP suitable for Mr D and in concluding that the proposed 
commercial property investment was suitable for him. Mr D did not invest in commercial  property.  He 
invested in the unregulated LNs which, in the context  of the pension switch,  is what he has 
complained about. I am not satisfied that Kippaxs failures  establish causation in his complaint and it 
is for this reason that I do not consider the complaint should be upheld.  
Overall, there is notable strength in evidence that shows Mr D (with support and/or  influence from the 
introducer) was determined to switch the pension in any event. I am persuaded  that he would  have 
done so even  if he was advised against it by Kippax. In addition, there  appears to be no credible claim 
or evidence  that he would have retained the assets in the PP if he was told they were better  for him 
than the proposed commercial property investment.  Instead,  the balance  of evidence shows the 
opposite and shows he intended to invest in something else in any event.
Mr D says the idea of an alternative investment  and the commercial  property investment  arose  from 
Kippax. Evidence  defeats this claim. I have referred, above, to documentation that shows 
presentation of the commercial property  investment  idea was put together between  him and the 
introducer before he was introduced to Kippax; that shows the introduction referred  to this and to the 
selection of Mr Ds preferred SIPP provider; that shows  Kippax was asked  by the introducer to enter 
into an agreement with the SIPP provider  at the outset in order to execute  the plan, before it had 
engaged with Mr D; and that shows the SIPP providers pre-switch illustration also presented the 
commercial property investment idea (which probably  resulted  from the meeting he appears to have 
had with the managing director  of the SIPP provider  before he was introduced to Kippax). It is fair and 
reasonable to conclude from these facts  that Mr D was pre-determined  to switch his PP to a SIPP,  
that he was pre-determined  to use a specific SIPP provider, and that he (and the introducer) initiated 
and presented to all concerned the commercial property investment  idea.
Then evidence shows that Mr D invested in something different  the unregulated LNs  beginning 
around three weeks after the pension  switch was completed. His plan to do so was disclosed to 
neither Kippax nor, it appears,  the SIPP  provider. There is no evidence of advice sought  and 
obtained, about the LNs, by Mr D from an alternative source. I consider it probable that the LN 
Ref: DRN276649113investment idea had also been pre-determined, either before he engaged with Kippax  or at a time 
before the switch was completed. It appears implausible  that he could have acted   with or without  
alternative advice  so differently to the objective he presented and maintained between  those two 
points (engagement with Kippax and completion of the switch) and so quickly, without such pre-
determination. 
For the reasons  given  above, I am not persuaded that suitable advice from Kippax would  have made  
a meaningful difference to Mr Ds actions.  Those actions (including his investment in the LNs)  would 
probably have been executed  irrespective of such advice.  It is more likely (than not) that he would 
have declined  advice  about  unsuitability of the switch and that he (and perhaps the introducer)  would 
then have looked for another adviser to facilitate the switch in order execute  his intended investment 
plan. 
My provisional  conclusions are that Mr Ds investment in the unregulated  LNs was not advised  by 
Kippax; that Kippax recommended the unsuitable  commercial property investment idea but that 
investment never happened; that it had no cause to consider or anticipate  any other investment  being 
made by Mr D; that it recommended the unsuitable pension switch,  but Mr D would have switched his 
pension even  if he was advised not to; and that, overall and for these reasons, there is not a direct  
and unbroken  chain of causation  between Kippaxs unsuitable advice and Mr Ds investment in the 
unregulated LNs (or his claim that they are unsuitable or the loss he claims for them).
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional  conclusion is that Mr Ds complaint should not be 
upheld. 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2766491