K821x#15complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the quality of a car he financed through  a hire purchase agreement
with FirstRand Bank  Limited  (FirstRand). Mr V wants to reject the car.
background
In March 2017, Mr V financed a used car with a hire purchase agreement from FirstRand.  At
that time,  the car was around 10 years old, had travelled over 81,000 miles and the cash
price was just over £7,600. He paid a deposit of £300 and the rest was financed by the hire
purchase agreement.
Shortly after receiving the vehicle, Mr V noted  a number of issues:
-the airbag  light illuminated
-there was water  in the rear drivers foot-well
-the engine  management light illuminated
-the tow bar wiring  had been incorrectly fitted
Mr V says he was in contact with the dealership and on several occasions they sorted out
the issues he was having. But he says the airbag light and the engine management light
intermittently illuminate   about every  two to three months. He also says that the person at
the dealership  who was helping him has left  and the dealership  are no longer prepared  to
help him.
When Mr V complained to FirstRand, they said that as Mr V was complaining after having
the car for over six months, hed need  to provide evidence that the faults  were  present when
he took on the car. They suggested he get an independent  engineers report. Unhappy with
their response, he brought  the case to us.
I issued my provisional decision upholding Mr Vs complaint to him and FirstRand on            
5 April 2019 and said both parties should get back to me with any further  information  they 
wanted me to consider by 19 April 2019.
FirstRand have not replied.
Mr V has given  me more  details about the water in the rear foot-well and what  the dealership 
said to him about  the diesel particulate filter (DPF) issue. But as Im upholding his complaint 
for another  reason, this doesnt  make  a difference to my answer.  Mr V has also said the cost 
hes looking  to recover for his number plate is £110  based  on the retention cost,  not the 
cost of switching  it. I accept this and have reflected this in my decision below.
So  taking  everything into consideration  Im still upholding Mr Vs complaint  and have set 
out my full reasoning again below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Vs complaint  and Ill explain why.
The hire purchase agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As 
such, this service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FirstRand  are providing the
finance for the car under  this agreement  and under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
Ref: DRN222951621974 can be held responsible for a complaint about  its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act (CRA)  is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that
under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that the quality of the goods is
satisfactory.
The quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would
consider satisfactory, taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the
other relevant circumstances.  So, in order for me to agree that Mr V shouldve  been able
to reject his car, Id first have to be satisfied that it was of unsatisfactory  quality at the point
of sale. As part of this, Ill think about what issues are likely  to be inherent  defects  and
whats reasonable to consider as wear  and tear, given the age of the car, mileage covered
and what Mr V paid for it. And Ill also have to consider whats  been  done to put things right
so far.
do I have the right information  to decide  on this complaint?
FirstRand have said as Mr V brought the complaint to them  more  than six months  after
hed taken on the car, hell need to provide an independent report  to show  the faults hes
reporting were likely to have been  present at the point of sale.  Likewise, the dealership  
through their legal representative  have  said the burden of proof  lies with Mr V once  six
months have passed. And that if there were problems with the car, these wouldve become
apparent either within the first six months of having  the car  or within 6,000 miles of driving 
it. 
I have considered these  representations carefully and  as Ive already explained  Ive
taken the CRA into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr V took on the car in March 2017 and brought his complaint to FirstRand  in June 2018,
I can understand why they might say he had to provide more  information.
But Mr V has said he reported faults to the dealership shortly after taking possession  of the
car in March 2017   and continued to stay in contact  with the garage, until June 2018, when
he says they stopped  helping him.
Mr V has provided copies of texts  he says are between him and an employee  of the
dealership. FirstRand  have been  provided  with these texts. Having studied the content,
I think they are between Mr V and a contact at the dealership.
Ive also listened  to calls between Mr V and FirstRand   and the calls and the texts do tie-in 
with each other.
So I think I can rely on the content of the texts   along with the other information I have.
Ive also considered whether its necessary to have an independent inspection  of the car
carried out at all. After  we issued our view on this complaint, FirstRand  did offer to pay for
one  but Mr V wasnt happy about this and thought it would be a waste  of time.  Ive also
considered whether this would help me decide  on this complaint  but I think I have enough
reliable information  already  to determine whether, on the balance  of probabilities, the car
was of unsatisfactory quality or not.
issues with the airbag  light
Ref: DRN22295163The dealership have said Mr V didnt report the issues with the airbag light and engine light
illuminating until six months after hed had the car. They say they shouldve  been allowed to
inspect the car within the first six months  and have the chance to correct any issues.  They
also say they told Mr V to provide evidence that there was a fault  and say he provided
information from another party that advised  there was a DPF issue,  which had led to an 
issue with the mass  flow sensor.
Ive dealt with the engine  management light issue later in my decision.
Regarding the airbag light issue, the dealership  say the issue  with this was caused by two
plugs  that connect it to the squib  ring  coming  loose  and disconnecting  and they needed
to be re-inserted. Through their legal representative, theyve suggested this was rectified.
But the evidence  Mr V has supplied suggests  that he raised the issue with the airbag almost
immediately after he took on the car. The texts hes provided us explicitly mention an issue
with the airbag just three weeks after hes had the car. In April and May 2017, he reports this
issue again. Texts from June 2017 suggest  the car has been back to the dealership.  But in
August 2017,  he mentions the airbag light coming on again   and, in early  September, it
seems the car went back in and repair work  was done or it was reset. But Mr V reports 
through the series of texts  with his dealership contact  that the issue  reoccurred in
September, October and November in 2017,  and then in February  2018,  when the text
exchange suggests the car has gone  back  to the dealership again to be fixed.
I think its likely Mr V did report the issues  with the airbag almost as soon as he took the car
on. And I think the dealership were  given multiple opportunities to put this right.  And, even
though they say a loose connection was the cause, its clear to me that the attempts to repair
this havent worked.  And when Mr V complained  to FirstRand in June  2018,  he provided a
photograph to show that the airbag  light was once again illuminated.
So, for this reason, I dont think Mr Vs car was of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.
issue with the tow bar
Mr Vs told us he had an issue with the tow bar  which was a feature that came  with his car.
He says he kept getting a dash warning light showing a blown bulb and the indicator was on
all the time.  He adds  that he took it to a specialist trailer business, who said there was no
transformer fitted in line with the light board seven-pin plug.
On a text dated  17 July 2018, Mr V refers  to an issue with his tow bar wiring.  Then on
27 July 2018,  another  text includes an invoice for £95. Its not entirely clear whats written on
the invoice, but from other information  Ive seen, it would appear  to be for the tow bar issue.
So, I think its likely this problem was brought to the dealerships attention within  four months
of Mr V having the car  and from what Ive seen, I think there was a quality issue  with this
from the point of sale.
Mr V says he paid the specialist trailer  business  to put things right,  which the dealership then
paid half of, after he raised it with them. So, I think the issue is sorted.
At one point,  Mr V told us hes still £95 out of pocket, but as he also says the dealership paid
him for half of this, I think its likely  hes only £42.50 out of pocket due to this. And thats what
Im thinking  of asking  FirstRand to pay him back.
Ref: DRN22295164issue with water in the rear drivers  foot-well
A text from 10 April 2017 indicates  the problem Mr V says he had with water  in the rear
drivers foot-well.  My understanding is this was an issue related to the rear windscreen
washer coming loose   and that this was also fixed by the dealership, which  they have
confirmed. Mr V says this has reoccurred recently   but given it was last fixed in 2017,  I think 
its likely  the recurrence is now down to reasonable wear and tear.
I know Mr V has more  recently said he thinks its a design fault and that sorting it out each 
time isnt a straightforward task. But taking all the evidence into account, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think that  on balance   this in itself would have  affected  the overall 
quality of the car.
issue with the handbrake
The dealership have also mentioned that the handbrake  was replaced shortly  after Mr V took
on the car. Mr V has said it still doesnt  hold the car on a steep hill. But  from all the
information Ive seen  although  there  may have been an issue  with the handbrake and that
may well have meant the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied   the issue  was
fixed. And I havent  seen sufficient evidence to support what  Mr V says about the fault
having re-occurred.
issues with the engine management light (EML)
I can see that Mr V reported issues about  the engine  management light (by text) in June,
July, August and September 2017  and in March 2018. The texts hes shown me also
suggest this was looked into by the dealership in September 2017  and February 2018 and
work was carried out to fix it. Mr V has said this issue has occurred about  six times in total 
and says the engine management light is currently illuminated  suggesting the issue  hasnt
been fixed after all. Mr V has also said hes not used  the car much since November 2018
and not at all in recent months.
But the dealership have  also said the DPF is a consumable item and is easily  blocked if a
customer is completing low mileage journeys  and that this is explained in the car manual.
They also say that not following the service and maintenance requirements will lead to the
issues Mr V is complaining of. Theyve said they advised Mr V that the DPF was blocked and
arranged to have  it cleaned out  but also advised  that it was likely Mr V had damaged  the
DPF by continuing  to drive while it was blocked.
Its possible that it was caused by the manner in which  Mr V was driving the car  in that he
was driving in such a way that the DPF became  progressively  more  blocked. Its equally
possible that the EML kept coming  on because of a fault. I am satisfied that the EML was
continually coming  on, but its difficult for me to rule out that it wasnt due to the way Mr V
was driving the car. But that doesnt  matter too much here  I say that because  I have
already found  that other issues  with the car mean  it wasnt of satisfactory quality when
supplied.
Having considered all that has gone wrong with this car, and when it happened, and having
regard to the relevant circumstances such as the price paid and the mileage,  I think that this
car was of unsatisfactory  quality  when  supplied. The airbag is particularly concerning to me
as a safety feature and it is clear to me that the fault can be traced  back to supply. And
Ref: DRN22295165although a good deal of repair  work  has been undertaken, Im not satisfied that all the
issues, particularly the airbag issue,  have  been properly rectified.
Mr V has allowed numerous attempts at repair, which, as I have found, havent  been
completely successful. And Im not satisfied that further repair  work will resolve matters here,
either. Because of this, I think  Mr V should  be allowed to reject  the car.
other concerns raised by the dealership
Through their legal representative,  the dealership have  argued that if there were inherent
issues with the car, Mr V wouldnt have been able to use it to cover the 13,500 miles
he has since March 2017. Mr V has said his mileage by February  2019  was over 98,000
miles  so hes now covered around 17,000 miles since he took it on. But Mr V has never
said the issue stopped him driving  the car altogether   and he has also been clear that the
problems are intermittent.
The dealership have also pointed out that Mr V made a warranty  claim about the DPF and
the airbag issues   and that both claims were rejected on the basis that the items were wear
and tear based. Mr V also makes a reference to not being successful in making  a warranty
claim in his series of texts. So Ive given this some careful consideration. But Im not
assessing any warranty claim  here  and it doesnt  necessarily follow that an unsuccessful
warranty claim means the vehicle was of satisfactory quality. The claims success will
depend on the terms of the warranty  and that doesnt form part of this decision. And I think
theres more than enough evidence, as Ive set out above and with the timeline of the airbag
fault in mind, to persuade me that that the car wasnt of satisfactory condition at the point of
supply.
I have thought about the fact the car was ten years  old when Mr V took it on and had around
81,000 miles on the clock.  Mr V also paid around  £7,500 for it. But even with this in mind, I
wouldnt have expected the airbag issue to occur  within weeks  of Mr V possessing the car.
Although I acknowledge all that the dealership  and its legal representative  have said, it
doesnt dissuade  me from my opinion that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of
supply and that Mr V should now be able to reject  the car.
the impact of Mr V part-exchanging his previous vehicle
Mr V has also said he traded in his previous  car for between  £3,000  and £4,000 pounds.  
And has questioned why the credit agreement  only shows a deposit for £300  an amount 
which he says he paid in cash.
Ive now seen evidence  which  shows the dealership paid off the agreement for his previous
vehicle. This payment  was around £4,250. So, Ive next considered what  the likely value of
Mr Vs previous car was at the time he paid off its agreement (as Mr V has suggested that
the value of the part exchange was higher than the cost to pay off the finance).  As I dont
have this information, Ive used an industry evaluation tool  which  takes into consideration
the model, age and condition of the car and its likely mileage around the time Mr V traded it
in. And this figure  has also come out at around £4,250.
From what  I have  seen, it looks like the amount Mr V owed on his previous finance
agreement was also the likely market value of his car at the time.  So  although  Mr V did 
trade his car in  it wouldnt be fair for him to get refunded the trade-in  value as it looks like 
Ref: DRN22295166this was taken  in exchange for the dealership  paying  off the finance which  he owed. Based 
on the evidence  available, I dont think Mr V is owed  anything  further.
putting things right
considerations
Mr V has said hes recently paid £100 for new tyres  and wouldnt have done  that, if hed
thought he would be able to reject  the car. But it looks like he covered around 17,000 miles 
and I think its reasonable hed have  to replace the tyres after covering this distance. So 
while I think he should able to reject the car  I dont think it would be fair to ask FirstRand to
cover a cost that appears to be due to natural wear and tear.
Mr V has said hell incur  a retention cost of £110  to keep his private number plate. I think its 
fair that FirstRand cover this cost, as hes only incurring this because  hes handing the car 
back through no fault of his own.
Mr V has said there was a period of around a month when he couldnt  use his car, because
the engine management light and the airbag light were on and were  being fixed. But hes
also said he was sometimes provided  with a courtesy car or simply waited while his car was
fixed  but not been able to give specific times when this happened.
Recently, he confirmed  that hes not really  been using the car since  November 2018
because of the safety concerns  using it just for emergencies, until about two months,
when he declared  it SORN.
I can see hes taken it to the garage  on a number occasions, so overall I think its likely  it
was off the road for some  time over the period hes had it. I have also considered  the fact
hes covered around 17,000 miles. So, despite  issues, hes had very good use of it 
although he does  point out that trips to the dealership  are around 150 miles each time.
So, its not entirely clear  over the whole time Mr V has had the car, just how much  hes not
been able to use it. But I think its likely hes not had much use of it since November 2018 
around six months to date. He has said hes used it for emergencies   although not
specified when.
However, in the round,  I think it would be fair to instruct FirstRand  to refund Mr V all
repayments hes made from November 2018  to make up for being unable  to use the car 
for the extended  period  hes mentioned and the multiple times airbag  warning  lights came on
when he wasnt provided with alternative transport.
I can also see that these  issues  have caused Mr V quite  a lot of inconvenience and distress
throughout. And that Mr V has had to make a lot of effort to try and resolve the issues hes
encountered over an extended period. Mr V also has vulnerable  close relatives that hes
needed to take to regular  medical appointments  so not having  a car that is safe to drive
has caused him further distress and inconvenience. At times  hes had to use public transport
at an additional  cost and inconvenience too. And as Ive said, taking the car back to the
dealership involved  150 mile round trips each  time.  With that in mind, Im awarding Mr V
£400 for distress  and inconvenience caused.
summary
Ref: DRN22295167In summary,  FirstRand need  to do the following to put things right:
-end the hire purchase agreement with nothing further to pay
-remove all reference to this agreement from his credit file, including  any adverse 
markers
-refund  Mr V his £300 deposit, adding  8% simple yearly interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement*
-collect the car at no extra cost to Mr V
-refund  Mr V all the monthly payments hes paid since November 2018,  plus 8% 
simple yearly interest on each payment from the date he paid them  to the date of 
settlement*
-pay £42.50  to cover the outstanding cost of replacing the tow bar, plus 8% simple  
yearly interest from the date Mr V paid for this to the date of settlement*
-pay £110 to cover the retention  cost of Mr Vs private number plate
-pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires FirstRand to take off tax from this interest.  FirstRand 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Vs complaint against  FirstRand Bank Limited  and they should 
put things right by following what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2229516