complaint
Mr H complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny.co.uk, lent to him
in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
15 October 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought that Sunny shouldnt  have given Mr H loans 
5 to 36 and what  it should do to put matters right. 
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  Sunny responded  in some length.  It said,  in summary:
Mr H repaid each loan.
The highest loan was for £700  but on average the other  loans were  £100.
Mr H could afford the repayments.
Mr H didnt say that he was in financial difficulty.  
It doesnt agree that it shouldnt have granted loan five. 
It doesnt agree that it should  alter its approach after a certain number of loans. 
It relied on the information from credit reference agencies and it considered all of 
Mr Hs outstanding credit commitment if they had been reported  to the credit reference 
agencies. 
Based  on the information it had, Mr H could afford to repay loan five. 
Its not sure why its checks for loan five were  inadequate.
Weve given undue weight to the number of loans and pattern of lending.  
In the absence of other factors, the number  of loans in itself doesnt show financial 
hardship. 
Theres no good reason to give more  importance to the number of loans a customer  
had with it rather than another lender.
It was only required  to consider affordability  for the term of the loan.  
Its contact with Mr H doesnt support the conclusion that the loans were unsustainable. 
Its incorrect to assume that the number of loans  impaired Mr Hs ability  to access  
mainstream credit. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN2840558The fact that Mr H repaid  the loans, didnt report financial hardship  and said that he could 
afford the repayments  when he applied for a loan doesnt show  that the repayments were  
sustainable. 
I think that by loan five, Sunny should have done  more than it did. Thats because,  by then,
Mr H had taken out five loans with Sunny in seven months. Given  Mr Hs income and the level 
of repayments, proportionate checks are likely  to have established a much  fuller picture of his 
financial position. I think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Sunny took steps to 
verify the information  Mr H provided about  his financial  situation. I dont think  it was sufficient at 
this stage for Sunny to rely on the information  it received from credit reference agencies.  Not 
all relevant information is available to a prospective lender from the credit reference agencies.
Im satisfied that proportionate  checks before loan five would have shown two short-term  loans 
from other lenders  amounting to £375 in addition to the two unpaid  loans with Sunny and that 
Mr H couldnt afford  to repay loan five. So, I remain of the view that Sunny shouldnt have 
given it to Mr H.
As I said in my provisional decision,  from loan six I think the pattern of lending itself indicated 
that the lending was unsustainable. I appreciate that Sunny takes a different view but Im not 
persuaded by its arguments. Its clear to me that the pattern of lending  from loan six indicates 
that Mr H couldnt  afford to repay  further loans. 
I remain of the view a prospective lender would consider  the number of short-term  loans 
negatively. I think that in addition to the removal of negative information about loan five, all 
information about loans six to 36 should  be removed.  
Considering everything, I remain of the view that Sunny shouldnt have given Mr H loans five to 
36 and I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that uphold 
Mr Hs complaint in part. I now require Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as 
Sunny.co.uk. to;
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans five to 36;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Hs credit file;
the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to 36 should be removed from 
Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2840558extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complains that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading  as Sunny.co.uk, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr H took out 36 loans with Sunny between October 2014 and January 2017. Loan one was a running  
account credit  agreement:  Mr H drew  down £125 of a credit limit of £350.  Loans two to 36 were 
instalment loans, initially repayable over six months. Mr H repaid all the loans he had with Sunny. A 
summary of Mr Hs borrowing with Sunny is attached as an appendix
to this decision.
Mr H says that he couldnt afford to repay the loans  and that Sunny didnt carry  out proper 
affordability checks. He wants  compensation,  interest  and information  about  the loans  removed from 
his credit file.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Hs complaint. He said that Sunny shouldnt have given
Mr H loans six to 36. The adjudicator  set out what Sunny should do to put matters right.
Sunny agreed with the adjudicator in part. It agreed to put things right in relation to loans
32 -36 but not in relation to the earlier loans. It said:
The contractual repayments were  a small  percentage of Mr Hs monthly  income.
There was a significant  gap between loans 18 and 19.
It took into account that Mr H was repaying  more  than one loan.
It used information from Mr H and credit reference  agencies in assessing  the 
applications and asked Mr H about other short-term  credit commitments.
Based on Mr Hs declared income and expenditure, each loan was affordable and theres 
no evidence to suggest the loans were  unsustainable.
We didnt receive an acceptance of Sunnys  offer from Mr H. As the offer wasnt  in line with the 
adjudicators recommendation, the matter was passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  practice - on our website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H could repay  the loans in 
a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
Ref: DRN2840558But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr H could  sustainably repay his loans  not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is because  
the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable
as being without  undue difficulties and in particular  the customer should be able to
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to 
borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
Sunny says that there was a significant gap in lending  between  loans 18 and 19. I dont agree. 
The gap between taking out those two loans  was approximately three weeks and when Mr H took 
out loan 19 he hadnt repaid loan 18.
Sunny may have meant to refer to loans  17 and 18. There  was a gap of just over three months 
between Mr H repaying loan 17 and taking out loan 18. I dont think that gap is such  that Sunny should 
treat Mr H as a new borrower from loan 18. By loan 18, Mr H had been borrowing from Sunny with 
very little gap for eighteen  months and many of the loans overlapped.  Ive looked at the whole history 
of Mr Hs lending  with Sunny. I dont think that there are any gaps sufficient to break  the chain  of 
lending. So, Im dealing with one chain  of lending here.
I dont think that Sunny  was wrong to give Mr H loans one to four. Given  the repayment amounts for 
those loans, what  was apparent about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his history with Sunny at 
that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr H for the amount of 
information needed to show  the lending  was unsustainable.  There  wasnt anything  in the information 
Mr H provided or the information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what Mr H said about his finances.
From loan five, I think  proportionate checks would  have included Sunny taking steps to build  a more  
detailed picture of Mr Hs financial situation. I think that if Sunny had done  that its likely it would  have 
seen that Mr H had two outstanding  short-term loans with other lenders that he hadnt yet repaid. And 
he hadnt repaid his previous two loans with Sunny. I think that proportionate checks before loan five 
would likely have shown that Mr H couldnt afford to repay that loan in a sustainable manner.  So, I dont 
think that Sunny should have given Mr H loan five.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mr H, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which  Sunny should reasonably  have  seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful and realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Hs case, I think that this point was reached by loan six. I say 
this because by loan six, Mr Hs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently 
reliant on short-term  loans.  Mr H had taken six loans with Sunny  over eight  months. Whilst the amounts  
Ref: DRN2840558Mr H borrowed varied, they didnt decrease significantly over this period  and for the rest of the 
borrowing relationship with Sunny. And Mr H was taking  out new loans before  hed settled earlier  ones. 
So, Sunny ought to have  realised it was more likely  than not that Mr Hs indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr H wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 36 was taken  out over two 
years after Mr Hs first loan with Sunny.  Mr H had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a 
debt to Sunny over an extended period.
In my view, the pattern  of lending  itself shows that the loans from loan six were
unsustainable  so, in addition to loan five, I dont think Sunny should have given Mr H loans six to 36.
I think that Mr H lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan six onwards.  Thats 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period. And the sheer  number of loans 
was likely  to have had negative implications  on Mr Hs ability to access  mainstream  credit and so kept 
him in the market for these  high- cost loans.
putting things right  what Sunny  needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans  five to 36;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Hs credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan six onwards  means any information  recorded  about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to 36 should be removed  from Mr Hs credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must  give
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold Mr Hs complaint  in part. I intend to direct Elevate 
Credit International  Limited,  trading as Sunny.co.uk. to put things right as indicated above.
Ref: DRN2840558K821x#15summary of Mr Hs borrowing from Sunny
Ref: DRN2840558