K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2000 in connection with a 
mortgage arranged  by Mr B. The policy covered Mr B if he couldnt  work because of accident 
or sickness.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
From the evidence I have  seen I dont think Yorkshire Building Society recommended the 
policy to Mr B, so the key question I need to consider is:
- Did Yorkshire  Building Society give Mr B information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading in order to put him in a position  where he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance he was buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr B is worse off as a 
result. That is, would he have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr B says he was told he had to buy the PPI to get the mortgage he wanted, and that he 
wasnt given a proper  choice. Ive noted everything  hes said.  The difficulty I have is that I 
cant be sure what was discussed between Mr B and the adviser when the policy  was sold, 
and Im also mindful that these events took place many years  ago. 
But I can see that Mr B had to complete a separate  application form to apply for the policy, 
and that there were  different  levels of cover he could choose.  He chose cover for accident  
and sickness only, rather than accident,  sickness and unemployment. This suggests to me 
that the society made Mr B aware that there was an element of choice in buying the policy.
The Key Facts document that was produced for Mr Bs mortgage also said:
You are not obliged  to take out any insurance through Yorkshire Building Society.
Ref: DRN26341812The document also included a section  headed: Optional insurance that you do not have to 
take out through Yorkshire  Building Society.  The PPI was listed  in that section of the 
document.
The PPI was also free for the first six months. On balance  I think its likely that Yorkshire 
Building Society wouldve written to Mr B before the free period ended, to see whether  he 
wanted to continue with the cover. 
So overall, from what Ive seen, I think Yorkshire Building Society made Mr B aware  that he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI.
The cost of the policy was set out in the Key Facts document sent to Mr B before the 
mortgage completed. So it seems  Mr B knew how much he would be paying for the policy  
and found it acceptable. 
There is nothing to suggest that Mr B didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when it was taken  out. And his circumstances dont  suggest he wouldve  been caught by any 
conditions limiting the policys main benefits  (such as those affecting self-employed people 
or people  with pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think  he needed better information 
about the things the policy  might not have covered.
Mr B says he was entitled to good sick pay from his employer. But Yorkshire Building 
Society didnt recommend  the policy to Mr B, so it didnt have to ask him about any other 
means he had to cover his repayments.  It was for Mr B to decide whether the policy was 
suitable for him. 
In summary,  I think Mr B agreed to take out the cover (knowing he didnt have to). And given 
the policy provided broadly what I think he expected when  he agreed to it, I dont think  he 
would have made a different decision (and decided against taking the policy out) if he had 
been better informed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634181