K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about a claim he made  against  a legal expenses insurance  policy  he 
has which is underwritten by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA).
For the sake of clarity when I refer to RSA I mean both the underwriter and any agent  acting  
on its behalf.
background
Mr F took out home  insurance with John Lewis in early 2017.  The policy was underwritten by 
RSA. A few months later Mr F contacted RSA to let it know  he wanted to make a claim under 
the legal  expenses element of his home insurance as he was wanted to take a case against  
the company he had bought his home  from. He explained there were a number of issues 
relating to a water fountain, both in regards to its appearance  and noises associated  with it, 
as well as concerns about service charges.
 
RSA considered the merits  of the claim relating to the water fountain. Mr F had wanted to 
bring a claim  on the grounds of mis-representation  as he said the water fountain wasnt 
finished to the level he, and other residents,  had expected it to be. He said it was both 
unsightly and extremely noisy and as a result  devalued his property.
Initially RSA said it wouldnt take a claim about the water fountain  forward  as it didnt feel 
there were reasonable prospects of success if the case went  to court. However  it later 
overturned this when  it realised the issue with the water fountain pre-dated the start of the 
policy and as such was something Mr F was unable to claim for under the policys  terms and 
conditions regardless of the prospects of success.  Likewise  it also said that the policy didnt 
provide cover for claims relating to service charges. Mr F accepted  these findings  and so 
RSA considered the final aspect of his claim, whether or not it would provide cover for a 
claim about nuisance,  relating  to the noise  coming  from the water fountain and associated 
generators. 
In order to consider  whether or not Mr F had reasonable prospects of success  in a claim for 
nuisance RSA asked  him to provide  it with evidence of the noise he was experiencing. Mr F 
did this and sent a video  clip of the water fountain, which he said makes a flushing noise 
every 4 minutes. The person considering the merits of Mr Fs claim responded by saying the 
evidence he had provided was insufficient  and without expert evidence  supporting  his claim 
it was unlikely he would be successful in court. As a result RSA refused to provide Mr F with 
legal expenses cover  on the basis that his claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success. 
Mr F disagreed with RSAs findings and raised  a number of concerns. He feels  the person 
who considered  his claim for RSA was inexperienced and the matter  was complex and 
shouldve been  reviewed by a more  senior  lawyer.  He has also said that RSA has caused  
unreasonable delays in how its handled his complaint. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into Mr Fs complaint  already.  He explained that as there 
were different agents involved  in the complaint it was necessary to consider different aspects 
separately as they needed to be addressed to different businesses. For that reason he didnt 
consider what happened  when Mr F bought  the policy from John Lewis and instead  focused 
on what happened when  he tried to make a claim under his policy.  Having done that he 
Ref: DRN26120522decided that over all RSA had behaved  reasonably  in how it had assessed Mr Fs claim and 
so he didnt ask it to do any more in relation to the complaint. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators findings  and asked for a final decision  to be issued 
and so the case has been passed  to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint and Id like to explain why.
Firstly I would like to clarify that this decision only relates to the actions of RSA and the legal 
agents appointed to consider Mr Fs claims in their capacity as agents of the insurer but not 
legal representatives.  I wont consider  or comment on what happened when Mr F first bought 
the policy from John  Lewis.  I have however considered whether RSA caused unreasonable  
delays to Mr Fs claim and whether or not it was entitled to decline his claim under the terms 
and conditions of his legal expenses insurance  policy.
Mr F contacted RSA in July 2017  to make  a claim regarding the water fountain and 
associated problems. Between July and November RSAs appointed legal agents  looked into 
Mr Fs claim for him. In early email exchanges  dated in July 2017 Mr F was warned that the 
claim he wanted to bring for mis-representation may not be successful but the matter would 
be considered  in full before a definite  answer  was provided. In November 2017 RSAs  legal 
agent wrote  to Mr F and confirmed that having reviewed his claim in full it didnt think it had 
reasonable prospects of success (i.e. a more than 50% chance  of success  in court) and so 
the claim wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
However it did identify  that there was a possible claim  for nuisance  that may be made linked 
to the noise disturbance Mr F had alluded to in his initial submissions. Mr F didnt initially 
pursue a separate claim  for nuisance as he was still trying to persuade RSA to accept the 
original claim. That matter was eventually resolved in February 2018 when it came to light 
that the dispute regarding  the appearance of the water fountain could be traced back  to 
December 2016  and as such the matter pre-dated the start of the policy and so any 
associated claims were  excluded on that basis.  
At this time Mr F continued to pursue his complaint  regarding how his claim had been 
handled. He then decided to pursue his claim  for nuisance on the grounds that the water 
fountain and its generator were extremely noisy and disruptive. On 2 May 2018 Mr F sent a 
video clip of the water fountain to RSAs legal agents as evidence  of the issues  he was 
experiencing. 
RSAs agent contacted  Mr F on 1 June 2018  to say that there was insufficient  evidence to 
support his claim for nuisance and as such the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of 
success and wasnt covered under the policys terms and conditions.  The agent explained 
that M F could consider  seeking a report from an expert as it was likely  the judge  would  
request similar  evidence  if the matter did go to court. He confirmed his findings in writing on 
20 June 2018.
Mr F responded by saying  the legal agent  had mishandled his claim,  didnt understand the 
merits properly and was too junior  to consider the issues which Mr F believed  were complex. 
He requested a more  senior lawyer review  his claim in full and made a complaint. 
Ref: DRN26120523RSA responded  to the complaint in August 2018 stating that it did accept there had been a 
delay between Mr F submitting the video footage and receiving the phone call to say his 
claim wouldnt be taken forward. It also said that it wouldve expected  the letter confirming 
this to have been sent sooner than it was. It apologised for the inconvenience these delays 
may have  caused.  However it also clarified  that, while the person who had considered  Mr Fs 
claim and to whom he had spoken in June was junior, he had worked under the supervision  
of a Grade  A solicitor who was also a senior  associate, and that a partner of the law firm 
appointed by RSA had also reviewed  the advice before it as sent. Therefore RSA was 
satisfied that the advice  it had provided  was sound. 
I can understand why Mr F has been so frustrated by the way this matter had progressed.  
He has highlighted  the fact that RSA acknowledged  it caused  some delays but didnt  offer 
any compensation in relation to this. It is unfortunate that the legal agent made the initial  
error in assessing  his claim in July 2017 when it shouldnt  have  because  the claim pre dated 
the start date of the policy. But in determining whether RSA need to do anything  to put things 
right, Ive thought about the likely impact of the agents actions on Mr F.
In July 2017 when Mr F contacted RSA to start the claim he was initially told it was unlikely 
his claim for mis-representation  would  be successful.  And in November this was confirmed in 
writing. However Mr F didnt start any proceedings regarding nuisance  until April-May  2018 
and I cant see that this was the direct result of anything  RSA did wrong. Instead Mr F 
decided to pursue  the original claim and linked  complaint, as was his right, rather than begin  
proceedings in the nuisance claim. So whilst the matter  has been ongoing for quite some 
time, this isnt solely the result of the mistakes made by RSA in July 2017 and so I cant  fairly 
ask them  to compensate Mr F for this. 
Mr F has also said RSA should have appointed someone more senior to consider his claim. 
Its not appropriate for this service to comment on matters of legal advice as it falls outside of 
our jurisdiction. However I can consider whether or not the underwriters behaviour was 
reasonable in regards  to how it administered the claim  to a third party. In this instance the 
person who reviewed Mr Fs claim was a paralegal. However RSA have confirmed that the 
advice given by that person was also reviewed  by a senior lawyer  and a partner in the 
company. And so I cant  say RSA was wrong  to rely on the advice given. Because of this I 
wont be asking it to do any more  in relation to this element of Mr Fs complaint. 
Finally, in regards to the fact that RSA declined Mr Fs claim; it is clearly  set out in the terms 
and conditions of the policy that a claim which doesnt have reasonable prospects of 
success will not be accepted by the underwriter. This is a standard clause included  in legal 
expenses policies and so I cant say RSA was wrong to decline Mr Fs claim on this basis.  
Therefore, having  reviewed the complaint in full I will not be asking RSA to do any more  in 
relation to this matter.  
Ref: DRN26120524my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612052