K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with Alliance Trust Savings Limiteds portfolio  management  charges which 
he says werent made clear to him. Hed like a refund.
background
Mr R, who lives outside the UK, has had an investment  dealing  account (IDA) with Alliance 
Trust since 2008. In 2016  Alliance Trust decided to revise its charging  structure  as a result of 
customer feedback.  Amongst other things, this change reduced  the charges for online 
trading and included four online trades per year. In addition to this general review  Alliance 
Trust decided to introduce an additional  £350  annual charge for non-UK residents. This was 
to reflect  the additional and complex administration necessary, as its products are designed 
to meet  the needs for UK tax resident customers.  
Alliance Trust  wrote  to all customers about  the general changes  in December 2016, advising 
they were effective from February  2017. A separate mailing to non-UK based customers 
about the specific non-resident  charge took place in April 2017. Customers  were  told they 
could transfer  to another provider free of charge as long as instructions were received before  
the end of May 2017. 
Mr R says he didnt receive either  of these letters which werent sent recorded delivery, so 
the increase in charges  came as a shock to him. He wants  the £350 fee refunded which  he 
thinks is extortionate and an unfair contract term. He also wants Alliance Trust to refund  the 
fee he was charged  to transfer his holdings to another  provider,  plus one £10 monthly  fee as 
he feels the transfer was delayed  unnecessarily. He also thinks  it should  compensate  him for 
his time and postage costs  so a total of £485.50.
Alliance Trust  rejected his complaint as the charges were increased in line with its terms and 
conditions and their records showed  theyd advised  him in good time.  Mr R said he didnt 
receive the letters so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint as he thought it was likely Alliance Trust had 
sent the letters and couldnt hold it responsible if Mr R didnt get them.  And while the transfer 
was delayed, this was due to the need to verify  Mr Rs identity before it could be done.  Mr R 
says hes taken advice  from a solicitor and this argument wouldnt stand up in a court of law. 
So its come  to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
the increased charges
Mr R has had his account with Alliance Trust for about ten years so I dont find it surprising 
the terms and conditions may be reviewed in that period. A business is entitled to revise its 
terms and conditions including  its charges,  as long as it communicates  the changes  to its 
customers. 
To reflect the cost difference  between  online and manual processing Alliance Trust made  the 
commercial decision to revise its charges. This change increased Mr Rs monthly  charge 
Ref: DRN23291362from £7.50 to £10.  In  December  2016 it communicated  the forthcoming changes  in a letter  
headed Your charges  are changing  with effect from February 2017. Ive seen  a copy of this 
communication and Ive no reason  to think a change which  affected  all customers  wouldnt 
have been sent to Mr R.  In addition it introduced a £350 supplementary dealing charge for 
non-UK customers to reflect the additional costs  arising from the complexity  of administering 
such accounts. It wrote to affected  customers in April 2017 and this change  was effective 
from June 2017.  Ive seen a copy of this letter which is dated 20 April 2017. Again Ive no 
reason to think it wasnt sent. 
Section 5.1.4 of Alliance  Trusts terms and conditions says it assumes all communication  to 
UK based addresses sent second  class, will be received  within two business  days.  Mail to 
non-UK addresses  is sent air mail and is assumed to arrive  within four working  days. As no 
mail addressed to Mr R was returned undelivered, it assumed he received this letter by 27 
April, the fifth business day. Mr R says Alliance Trusts  claim to have  sent the letter  
wouldnt stand up in a court  of law. But this service  doesnt apply the same test as a court as 
were an informal dispute resolution service,  and an alternative to legal proceedings. So I 
dont have to prove  whether Alliance Trust sent the letters as it says it did. Or equally that Mr 
R didnt receive them,  as he claims not to have done. My role is to consider what I do have, 
and say what I think is most likely to have happened. From Alliance Trusts records Im 
persuaded it did generate two letters to Mr R. I think its entirely possible one of those letters 
didnt reach  Mr Rs address in Europe. But I think its less likely  both went missing in the 
post. I think he probably received at least one letter but may have assumed it was marketing 
material so didnt realise its importance.  And in any case I cant  hold Alliance Trust 
responsible for the postal service or where  Mr R chooses to live. 
Alliance Trusts  terms and conditions document says their charges can be viewed on its 
website and are available on request. Although Mr R is based  outside the UK, I think  he 
should be able to access the website  if he can trade  online. Ive looked at the website and it 
makes clear  supplementary charges will apply  to people who arent  UK tax resident or 
whose address is outside the UK. I dont find this unfair as Alliance Trusts products are 
designed for UK residents.  So I think Alliance  Trust was entitled  to increase its charges and I 
think it communicated these changes  to Mr R. 
the delay in transferring his funds
In February 2018  when  he received  a statement  Mr R contacted Alliance Trust to ask what  a 
charge of £411.25 was for.  Alliance  Trust explained  and checked  its records  which showed 
hed been written to. They  said he could transfer his account if he wished, but it would no 
longer be free of charge as he didnt let them  know by the end of May 2017.  He was sent an 
IDA withdrawal form and a list of acceptable  identification requirements. 
Alliance Trust  received Mr Rs completed withdrawal  form on 27 April 2018 and the funds 
(£4,715.01) were sent by faster payment to be received on 17 May 2018, with a liquidation 
proceeds payment  of £7.11 following soon afterward. The transfer was delayed  as Alliance 
Trust couldnt complete  its security  processes as they didnt have a copy  of Mr Rs signature  
and the signature  on the withdrawal form didnt match  the identification document  hed 
provided. And the usual address verification process  wouldnt work  with a non-UK address. 
To check the funds  were  going to an account in Mr Rs name Alliance Trust asked  him for a 
copy of a bank  statement  or a cancelled cheque.  Instead of the information it had asked for, 
Mr R provided  a letter from his bank, which delayed the transfer  further. While I appreciate 
the delay was frustrating for Mr R, I dont criticise Alliance Trust for wanting to be sure it was 
Ref: DRN23291363acting on Mr Rs instructions. And as the transfer  was completed within about two weeks 
from the signed form being  received; I dont  find this unacceptable. 
I realise Mr R feels very strongly  the additional  charge  for non UK residents is excessive and 
unfair, and hes told us he intends to take legal action against Alliance Trust.  Our decisions 
are only legally binding  if the consumer accepts,  so this course of action will still be open to 
Mr R if he wishes.
But for the reasons explained  above,  I dont uphold this complaint and wont  be asking 
Alliance Trust  to refund any charges to Mr R.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2329136