K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms S have complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt  pay a 
fair total loss settlement  when  Mr W claimed under  his car insurance policy. Ms S is a 
named driver.
All references to the underwriter Advantage include its agents.
background
Mr Ws car was unfortunately involved in an incident in June 2018  and he made a claim to 
Advantage. Advantage paid a final total loss settlement of £5,712.
Mr W and Ms S believed their car was worth around £6,400. They  said theyd paid £7,000 
for it nine months  before the incident and had added a tow bar to it since.  The timing of the 
settlement being  paid  and therefore the return of a hire care they were using  meant  that 
they were unable to go on a planned caravan holiday as there  wasnt  enough time to buy a 
replacement vehicle. 
Our investigator explained that the issue with the hire car wasnt  a complaint we could look 
at against Advantage. The hire car had been provided by an Accident Management 
Company separate to the underwriter.  
When looking at the main motor trade guides,  the investigator found  the average  was higher 
than the sum Advantage had paid. So she recommended Advantage pay a balance to Mr W 
and pay interest on the sum at 8%. She explained that the tow bar was an addition not 
covered under Mr Ws policy when deciding a valuation.
Mr W and Ms S accepted  the investigators  view.
Advantage has disagreed with the methods  weve used to see if their valuation was 
reasonable. So it wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way  and in line with the policy.
Mr Ws policy with Advantage says the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market 
value of his vehicle at the time of loss. We find the main motor trade guides are more reliable 
than adverts. Advertised prices vary widely and tend to be a starting point  to negotiate a 
price downward. The trade  guides provide retail valuations based on likely selling prices for 
a vehicle of the same  make, model, age, condition and mileage. 
Advantage looked at three  motor  trade  guides.  Based on the valuations it obtained, it paid 
above the average of the three guides.  However, we found  that the lowest valuation was 
obtained using  a method  we find less reliable as it doesnt confirm the mileage and condition 
of the car. And it doesnt say whether the price is a dealer price  (retail) or achieved privately. 
Ref: DRN29893712Our service recommends valuations are taken  directly  from this particular motor trade 
guides online valuation tool - as its more accurate. By including the valuation Advantage 
used to decide an average, its total loss settlement seemed reasonable. But I dont think  this 
was fair. In any event,  the lower valuation was out of kilter with the valuations we looked  at. 
When this happens,  we think the out of kilter valuation should be disregarded  irrespective 
of whether its higher or lower than the others  within range of each other.
The four main motor  trade guides we looked  at gave  an average valuation  for Mr Ws car of 
£5,926. So I think  a fairer outcome for Mr W is for Advantage to pay the difference  between  
the £5,712 settlement it paid and the £5,926 average valuation weve found. 
I think Advantage should pay interest on this sum from the date it paid the original settlement 
to the date it pays Mr W. Ive set out the rates below. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr W a further £214 as the total loss settlement  for his car. 
Pay interest on this sum at a rate of 8% simple  interest a year from the date it 
paid the original settlement to the date it pays the balance. 
If Advantage Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken 
off. It should  also give Mr W a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2989371