K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Sainsburys Bank  Plc are managing his debt repayment plan. 
He complains that they have passed his details to a third party without informing him. And he 
says hes received poor service from them. To put things right he wants them  to write off his 
debt.
background
Mr S has a credit card account with Sainsburys. He first agreed  a repayment plan with them  
for the outstanding balance in August 2016. 
In February 2018  Sainsburys  sent Mr S a letter saying they would like to review his 
repayment plan as it had been  in place for more than six months. The letter  invited him to 
call them to discuss it. This was then followed up by a telephone call from Sainsburys Bank  
Recoveries (SBR)  on 15 March 2018.  
Mr S complained as he felt it wasnt necessary  for Sainsburys to review his repayment plan, 
and that they were  pressuring  him to make  payments. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt 
notified that SBR are an agent of Sainsburys. He says this hasnt left him with any 
confidence in how his account  is being  managed, and he would  like Sainsburys to write off 
his debt.
Mr S has also complained about  other  aspects of the service  hes had from SBR, in 
particular the fact that the advisors he spoke with didnt have access  to his full account  
history. And he doesnt think they have  reasonably  taken into account his health issues.
Sainsburys said that SBR are managing Mr Ss account on their behalf. They  explained that 
SBR are their debt recovery team and follow their guidelines  to assist customers. They did 
however agree there  had been some issues with the service Mr S had received. They 
offered him £112.40 compensation. £62.40 was to cover the cost of calls Mr S had made 
after he was given an incorrect  customer service  contact number that wasnt  free of charge. 
The other £50 was intended  as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator was satisfied Sainsburys had acted within  the terms of their agreement with 
Mr S, and had treated  him fairly. Mr S doesnt agree. So the case has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr S will be disappointed,  but I 
wont be asking Sainsburys to write off his debt.  Ill explain why.
Sainsburys Bank Recoveries (SBR) telephoned Mr S in March 2018  to discuss the 
repayment plan he has in place for his credit card debt.  I understand  Mr S is unhappy 
theyve been contacting  him about this, because his situation hasnt changed.  He says hes 
agreed similar repayment plans with other  creditors  which  are valid for 5 years.  But 
Sainsburys want to review his plan with them every 6 months. 
Ref: DRN28611832I appreciate Mr S finds this frustrating  and considers it harassment. He says he wants 
Sainsburys to put a longer term debt plan in place. But Sainsburys have explained they 
dont enter  longer term repayment arrangements. Theyve said they carry out regular 6 
month reviews to check that the repayment  plan is still suitable for the customer  and that 
their circumstances havent changed.  
Its not the role of this service to tell Sainsburys what their policy should or shouldnt  be  
that is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. I appreciate  other banks may have 
different policies in place  and review their repayment plans after longer intervals.  But 
Sainsburys dont have  to do the same. And as Sainsburys have followed their process 
correctly here when dealing with Mr Ss debt, I cant say they have treated him unfairly.
When SBR contacted Mr S they did so as Sainsburys  Bank. Mr S says hed been told 
previously that a third party company was in control  of collecting his debt. So he didnt 
understand why he was now being contacted by someone who said they were calling 
directly from Sainsburys about  it. Hes feels its fraudulent for agents to contact him saying 
they work  for Sainsburys  when they are actually employed by another company, Wescot. 
And he doesnt think Sainsburys should  have  shared any of his information with a third 
party, or passed them management  of his account,  without telling him about  it first. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions for Mr Ss account,  and section 22.2 says that 
Sainsburys are entitled to transfer  their rights and duties under the agreement to another 
organisation. So I dont think Sainsburys have done anything  wrong  by using a third party 
agent, or by not formally  notifying Mr S of this fact. Its normal  business  practice  for a bank to 
employ third party agencies to collect a debt which is rightfully  owed to it. And in some 
circumstances, the debt can even be sold to a third party. Here Sainsburys says that whilst 
Mr Ss debt still sits with them, SBR are acting  on its behalf. Theyve also confirmed that 
although SBRs  agents are employed by Wescot  and share  their offices,  all of SBRs work is 
ring-fenced.
The terms and conditions  for Mr Ss account also say that Sainsburys can share consumers 
personal information with Our agents,  advisers or others involved in running  accounts and 
services for you and your business or collecting  what you or your business  owe Group 
companies. As its not in dispute that Mr S owes Sainsburys money, again I cant say 
Sainsburys has acted incorrectly in appointing a collection agent to act on its behalf.  Or by 
giving them access to Mr Ss account  information  to enable it to collect the debt. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that Sainsburys havent been open and honest  with him because  
SBR advisors introduce themselves as Sainsburys Bank and use Sainsburys Bank 
stationary. But SBR are authorised to act for Sainsburys, and Sainsburys are entitled  to 
make a commercial decision of this nature. And its not my role to review this arrangement,  
but to consider whether  Mr S has been treated fairly and reasonably. Sainsburys have 
explained that SBR agents follow Sainsburys internal policies and guidelines.  So I dont 
believe Mr S would have  been treated any differently even  if they hadnt appointed  a 
collection agent. Although as Ive explained,  Sainsburys  could have passed  full control of 
the debt to a third party agent if they had wished, and this would have been within the terms 
of their agreement with Mr S.
Mr S feels  the service he was given  from SBR was poor, and that they didnt take into 
consideration his mental health  issues, which he says Sainsburys were  aware  of. He is 
particularly unhappy  with the way an SBR advisor spoke to him on a call on 15 March  2018. 
He feels he was being harassed  and pressured  into making a payment on his account. 
Ref: DRN28611833Ive listened to the call. Mr S spoke to an advisor,  and then her manager.  Whilst I can hear 
Mr S was very unhappy  and became increasingly  frustrated, I dont think either  of them  
acted unreasonably towards  Mr S or provided him with poor service.  They  explained their 
debt recovery process  to him, and that they didnt feel the minimal repayment  plan he had in 
place was a long-term  solution. They also told him that if he wanted a longer term debt 
solution they thought  he should speak to a debt advisory company about his situation.  I think 
this was reasonable advice to give. 
I can hear that Mr S told the manager  on this call that he suffers  from depression. The 
manager confirmed  she had made  a note of this, and that SBR could put an individual  
service plan in place for him if he needed. She also asked Mr S some questions  to 
understand the impact of his depression on his ability to contact them and to manage his 
finances. He confirmed it didnt affect this. So Im satisfied Sainsburys (and its agent)  have  
acknowledged Mr Ss difficulties, and offered to put measures in place to try and help him. 
There isnt anything more  I can ask them do. And Mr S himself  confirmed this didnt impact 
his ability  to speak  with SBR or manage  his repayment plan. So I dont think hes been  
treated unfairly.
I understand Mr S is unhappy with other aspects of the service he received  from SBR. He 
said that on one call it took them over 5 minutes  to find him the number for Sainsburys 
customer service  team.  He also found  that the agents he spoke to didnt have access  to all 
of the notes relating to his credit  card account,  and prior conversations he had had with other 
teams about  it.
I appreciate Mr S thinks the SBR agents  should  have had access to all of the notes relating 
to his account. But its an internal decision for Sainsburys  to make as to how much  access  
individual staff members  and agents  have  to data. Sainsburys  have explained that once an 
account goes  into default it moves  to a different system. SBR agents have access to the 
system with details of account defaults.  But they dont have access to the system where the 
account is managed  outside of this as Sainsburys  dont consider it necessary for them to do 
their job. Its not for this service to tell Sainsburys how to run their collection team.  So I cant  
say theyve made an error by not giving  them access to other aspects of Mr Ss account 
history. 
I understand that on one phone call Mr S was given  a customer service contact number for 
Sainsburys that was not a Freephone number. He also wasnt provided  with an alternative  
free of charge number as he should have been. He then spent a total of £62.40  making 
telephone calls to this number. Sainsburys have acknowledged they made an error here, 
and say he was provided by an out of date number for an old team. They  refunded him the 
cost of the calls,  alongside an additional £50 as a gesture of goodwill. I think  this is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr S was unhappy that Sainsburys  wouldnt  provide him with a recording of the call SBR 
made to him on 15 March  2018 when he first asked for it. They told him he would need to 
make a subject access request to obtain it. I appreciate  this was frustrating for Mr S, but 
Sainsburys arent compelled to give him information  just because he asks for it, even if it 
does concern conversations hes had with them. So I cant say they have acted incorrectly 
here by directing Mr S to the correct process to request a copy of the call. They  have since  
permitted our adjudicator  to share  the call recording with Mr S, so I understand he now has a 
copy. 
Ref: DRN28611834I understand Mr Ss frustration, and sympathise with his situation.  But I cant  see any 
evidence that Sainsburys have acted outside of the terms of their agreement with Mr S. I 
agree they made an error giving him an incorrect contact number, but I think the 
compensation they have awarded for this is sufficient. Whilst I appreciate Mr S might 
disagree, I havent identified any other problems with the service hes received. So I wont be 
asking Sainsburys to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Sainsburys  Bank  Plc. If they 
have not already done so, Sainsbury Bank Plc should pay Mr S the £112.40  compensation 
they have offered him in respect of his complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2861183