K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains her savings account with Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  was 
earning an incorrect amount of interest.
background
Mrs M opened  a Regular Savings account in September 2017. She was paying in £250 a 
month by standing order. The account had an interest rate of 2%.
At the end of 12 months,  the balance and associated interest was supposed to be 
transferred to a different,  nominated account.  Mrs M could then continue to make regular 
deposits in to the Regular Savings account restarting the 12 month saving period but this 
didnt happen.
Halifax says it made  an error  when  the account was opened. It didnt set up a nominated 
account for the balance of the regular saver to be paid in to. Because  of this, 
Mrs M received less interest  than she otherwise would have.
Mrs M contacted Halifax in January 2019  to query  the amount of interest  she received. It 
was then the error was discovered. 
To put things right, Halifax  has paid Mrs M the amount of interest she has missed out on due 
to its error and re-set  up the Regular Savings account. It has also set up a new nominated 
account for the maturing funds and interest  to be paid in to. It has also paid Mrs M £75 in 
compensation for the inconvenience it has caused.
When our investigator looked  at the complaint, he felt Halifax had done enough to put things 
right. He didnt think it needed to do any more than it had already. 
Mrs M disagreed with this. She said:
At the end of the year the bank didnt  contact her to ask her what  she wanted to do 
with the money  from the account;
Halifax moved her money  to a 0% savings  account and continued to take £250  per 
month;
Because the money continued  to be taken out, she assumed the account  was still 
paying the same rate of interest as before;
She thinks the bank  gave her wrong information;
Halifax put £75 in her account without telling her;
She didnt feel what Halifax had done  went far enough to address the error  and 
wouldnt have been identified if she hadnt  queried  it in the branch.
Ref: DRN23358982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax said it wrote  to Mrs M in August 2018 to make  her aware the account  was maturing. 
Halifax havent been able to provide me with a copy of the actual letter  but it has provided 
internal screen  shots that show a maturity letter was sent. 
Its possible Mrs M didnt  receive this  but I dont think Halifax  is at fault for this. The address 
it has for Mrs M is correct, and while there are occasionally  errors  with post, they are rare. 
So Im persuaded  it did contact Mrs M before the account matured.
But Halifax  accepts it made an error  when opening Mrs Ms account,  and that their 
representative provided incorrect information to her. Halifax has shown us internal guidance 
that was available to its representatives  at the time of sale and I can see this instructs  them  
to set up a nominated account. So I agree Halifax did something wrong. I need to decide 
whether Mrs M has lost out as a result  and if I think its done enough to put things right.
Halifax says its corrected  Mrs Ms interest. So shes now earned  what she should have 
between September  2018  and January 2019.  Ive looked at the interest calculations provided 
to us by Halifax  and Ive not seen anything to make  me think these arent correct.  
It has also paid Mrs M £75 compensation for its error. Mrs M has said she is unhappy  Halifax  
put this money  in her account without  telling her. But I can see Halifax  said it was going to do 
this when it provided its final response to her in January  2019.
Ive also considered what Mrs M has said about  the error not being  discovered until she 
pointed it out. She says if she hadnt noticed, the error wouldve continued. She doesnt feel 
£75 goes far enough to resolve the issue. But the error was discovered, so it didnt continue  
 even if it was by Mrs M. Halifaxs error meant  that Mrs M lost a small amount of interest, 
but they corrected  this and she only needed  to contact them  once before they resolved this 
for her.  
So I think Halifax has done  enough to put things right. I think £75 is a fair amount of 
compensation in the circumstances so I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
Bank of Scotland plc has done  enough  to resolve  the complaint by correcting the interest 
and paying £75 in compensation for the trouble caused.
I dont think it needs to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335898