K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold them both a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policies in 2010 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policies in branch. 
Mr Hs policy  provided cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards the mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, Mr Hs policy cost £14.77 a month. 
Mrs Hs policy provided cover  for accident and sickness  only  subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £300 a month towards the mortgage balance in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, Mrs Hs policy cost £7.81 a month
The mortgage application shows that at the time, Mr H was employed in 
production/manufacturing. He has told us he was entitled to three months  full sick pay. He 
also says he was entitled to redundancy pay. Mr H has said he was in good health  at the 
time of the sale. 
The mortgage application shows that at the time Mrs H was employed in a financial/legal 
role. She told us she was entitled to at least three months full sick pay. She and Mr H also 
say they couldve  relied on family to help make  their repayments. Mrs H has said she had a 
medical condition  at the time of the sale, and that she had an operation  in 2002. 
YBS has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account started in 2010 and was a 
regulated mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed YBS wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. YBSs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the PPI was of inherently poor value as shown  by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
Ref: DRN21539182The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint - Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2010 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN21539183Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in 
January 2005,  so YBS was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN21539184-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the PPI was appropriate  or suitable for them, given  their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the PPI, including 
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI was optional. Ive seen a copy of Mrs Hs PPI 
statement of fact document. On it I can see the benefit required has been completed, and a 
printed cross has been placed  in the box to select accident and sickness (disability)  only 
cover. Ive also seen  a copy of the same  document completed with Mr Hs details. The 
benefit selected box has also been  completed, and a printed cross has been entered  to 
select accident and sickness (disability) and unemployment cover. On the demands and 
needs form it also states that Mr and Mrs H have decided  to proceed with accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for Mr H and accident  and sickness cover for Mrs H. 
I think its likely these selections came  about  as a result of a conversation between 
Mr and Mrs H and YBS, where  PPI was discussed.  Additionally, on the mortgage offer 
document there is a section related to the insurance policies that Mr and Mrs H had to take 
out as a condition of the mortgage   PPI is not mentioned here. Taking everything into 
account, I think its more  likely  Mr and Mrs H knew the PPI was optional  and they agreed  to 
take it out without  undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mr and Mrs H agree that advice was provided during this sale.  This means  
YBS had to advise  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policies were appropriate or suitable  given  their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that YBS took some steps to establish  whether  the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs H. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a demands and needs 
statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the 
policies, I cant see evidence that sufficient questions about  their wider circumstances such  
as medical conditions or existing means  were  asked  so I dont think  did enough to ensure 
the PPI was suitable. 
Ref: DRN21539185Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded YBS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded YBS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded YBS did all it should have done to make sure the PPI was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs H, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the PPI was ultimately  suitable  for 
them. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs H met the eligibility criteria  for the policies.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the PPI  it seems  likely that Mr and Mrs Hs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr or Mrs H were  not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits they say they would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mr and Mrs H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim for unemployment. And he hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  his ability  to claim for disability. Mrs H 
has told us about an existing medical condition  she had, and an operation she had in 
2002. But the condition appears to have been  under control,  and the operation didnt 
seem to have caused any ongoing issues, so I still think this was a suitable 
recommendation. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policies (including: the condition 
that Mr and Mrs H be prevented from doing their normal occupation or any job which 
they were reasonably  able to do, given their experience, education or training,  the 
requirement that Mr and Mrs H be disabled (or unemployed in Mr Hs case) for 60 
days before they could make a claim and the fact the PPI would only pay benefits for 
a maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policies  still provided valuable cover  
given:
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, including their employee benefits (which  they 
might expect  to provide  an income during the PPIs 60-day qualification 
period) and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policies could  play 
an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the PPI protected the mortgage  repayments relating to their home 
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs H be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  YBS gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what YBS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policies.
the information
Ref: DRN21539186Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover - that is that the PPI would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs H were unable  to work through accident,  sickness (and unemployment  for Mr H), 
and of the costs.  I have  reached this conclusion  because  I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H 
would have taken  out the PPI without any sense of what it was for and of how much the 
premium might be. Ive also seen  the monthly  costs and benefits of the policies, including the 
excess period and how long the benefit would be paid for, was stated on the paperwork from 
the sale. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take out the 
policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded YBS 
did enough to present  information about  the PPI it was recommending  in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded YBS gave Mr and Mrs H all of the information 
they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold these policies to 
Mr and Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
Ref: DRN21539187conclude Mr and Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out the policies, had YBS done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded YBS took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found  that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if YBS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs H would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the 
policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken them out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when YBS advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr H was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  or Mrs H was 
unable to work because of accident or sickness, they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the PPI was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs H were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policies, such  as limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI excluded claims  relating to any condition,  injury, illness ,disease and/or 
related condition and/or associated symptoms whether  diagnosed  or not, which  
Mr or Mrs H knew about or reasonably should  have known about at the start date of 
the policies, or for which they sought  or received  advice, treatment of counselling 
from any doctor during  the 12 months immediately before the start date; 
Mr Hs policy limited, and in some  situations,  excluded unemployment cover if he  
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs H be 
prevented from doing their normal occupation  or any job which  they were reasonably 
able to do, given their experience, education  or training. 
Ref: DRN21539188I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policies 
werent as good  as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policies. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the PPI 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Mr H 
would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  he was in full time, permanent 
employment and didnt have any existing medical conditions.
Although Mrs H says she had a medical condition when the PPI was taken out, and had 
previously had an operation, and her policy wouldnt have provided cover had she needed 
time off work because  of her condition,  I dont think better information  about this exclusion 
would have put her off agreeing to it. I say this because she doesnt appear to have had any 
ongoing issues as a result  of her operation and her condition appears  to have been under 
control at the time of sale. And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest she wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think they had some good  reasons 
to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions, or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs H would  have expected to make a disability  claim on the PPI without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
 If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if they were prevented from 
doing their normal  occupation or any job which they were reasonably  able to do, given their 
experience, education or training, it might have played into their thinking about  what they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in 
taking out the cover.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policies. The PPI was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability, or Mrs H was unable  who work through accident or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs H would have 
taken out the policies  in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN21539189the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs H found themselves in as result of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policies in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs H, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2010  when providing information about  insurance policies. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN215391810Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153918