K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  A company 
called Cigna  Insurance Services (Europe)  Limited  accepts responsibility  for this complaint 
even though the policy was purchased  through  another company. For consistency, Ill 
therefore refer mainly to Cigna in this decision.
Im also going to refer to the consumers in this case as Mr and Mrs G, which is in 
accordance with our writing style. 
Only Mr G was covered by the PPI, although  I understand  he and Mrs G had a joint 
mortgage. She wasnt named on the PPI policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in June 2019,  setting  out why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.   And  I asked  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
It seems  neither party wants to send  in any new information or arguments since I issued my 
provisional decision. So Ive carefully reconsidered all the available  evidence  and arguments 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done this 
theres no reason  for me to change the findings  I set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
I therefore dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.  And I dont require Cigna Insurance 
Services (Europe) Limited to pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25408792copy  provisional  decision
Ive considered all the relevant information about this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far Im 
considering departing substantially from the view of our most  recent adjudicator  who looked at this 
case.
Ill look at any more  comments and evidence  that I get by 14 July 2019.  But unless the information 
changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines. Final decisions are 
published. So that [the consumers] cant be identified, Ill call them  Mr and Mrs G. This style is in 
accordance with our approach. 
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. A company called  
Cigna Insurance Services (Europe) Limited accepts responsibility for this complaint even though the 
policy was purchased  through another company.  
Only Mr G was covered  by the PPI, even though I understand he and Mrs G had a joint mortgage.  
She wasnt named  on the PPI policy.
For consistency, Ill therefore refer mainly  to Cigna in this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs G say Mr G was mis-sold this cover, in 2008. The policy covered  Mr G in the event of him 
being unable to work or losing his job and was designed to help with their mortgage repayments in 
those unforeseen circumstances. 
Its mainly been Mr G dealing with us, so Ill periodically refer to him alone.
One of our adjudicators  initially said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But after the submission  of 
more information by Mr G, a second adjudicator took a second look. This time they said it ought  to be 
upheld.
Cigna disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, I dont  currently intend to uphold this complaint. 
Id like to say from the outset that I certainly dont doubt that Mr and Mrs G now genuinely and 
honestly feel this PPI policy  was mis-sold. I can also see Mr G, who has mainly been corresponding 
with us, feels  very strongly about it. In that context,  Id like to assure them  both that I fully understand 
the complaint points and have taken time to carefully go through all the information  weve been  sent 
by both the parties.
But I also take account that this is a sale which was over a decade  ago now and we only have 
certain pieces  of information and documentation still available. This isnt particularly surprising,  or 
indeed unreasonable,  given what we know about  the type of sale it was. Also,  businesses  arent 
required to keep all their records indefinitely.  Nevertheless, because I also know quite a bit about  the 
surrounding circumstances,  I can make a judgement about what  is more  likely  to have happened in 
this case.  
Ref: DRN25408793Cigna also says that Mr G bought the policy himself, by independently  accessing the internet.  It says 
this was done  via an internet comparison website (although Cigna accepts  responsibility  for now 
answering the complaint). 
Mr G, on the other  hand,  denies he used such a comparison site although he agrees he bought the 
PPI cover on-line. The main  thrust of his complaint  is that he wasnt given enough  information  about 
the PPI policy and it didnt fit his needs. He says it wasnt suitable for him and Mrs G.
did Mr G agree to buy the PPI?
Its not in dispute that Mr G bought this PPI policy  over the internet and I can see almost all 
correspondence relates  to him. As I understand it, neither is there any dispute that this was a stand-
alone PPI policy purchased by Mr G completely separately from his (joint) mortgage, which  he and 
Mrs G already had with a high street bank. Mr G says he was encouraged  by the bank to get a PPI 
policy.
So from all these circumstances, I can make a number  of reasonable assumptions,  even without all 
the relevant paperwork or screenshots from the sale. 
The first is that it doesnt really matter,  in my view, if Mr G used an internet comparison site or not; 
we know he bought the policy over the internet. By definition therefore, Mr G would  have known he 
didnt need to buy this type of policy, because he and Mrs G already had a mortgage with a 
completely separate  provider without any PPI cover. So its also reasonable for me to say that Mr G 
went on-line  and probably searched  through the web because  PPI cover was something he and Mrs 
G wanted to buy.
I take note that Mr G then set up the PPI cover only for himself. From  what  hes told us about his 
circumstances I can see why he might have wanted things that way. But it adds weight to the view 
that he considered his needs  and financial situation carefully when deciding  what he wanted to do.
This all means its much  more likely that Mr G specifically and independently asked for and properly 
consented to the PPI policy. And he would have known he had a choice in doing  so.
was Mr G provided with enough information?
Neither Cigna, nor Mr G for that matter,  can say much about the process that Mr G undertook whilst 
making his way through the web-based  PPI application form. But again, its reasonable, in my view,  
to assume he shopped around  to some degree  and carried some  sort of analysis out as to whether 
or not he should buy this type of cover. As he would have done this in his own time, most probably in 
his own home, the onus  was clearly  on him to make  sure he chose something that fitted his and Mrs 
Gs needs.  And as a non-advised sale Im afraid this was mainly his responsibility  and not Cignas. 
Mr G would then have obviously gone on to agree to buy the PPI policy  during the on-line process, 
for it to be set up in his name. And although we no longer have access  to the screenshots  he would 
have seen, Cigna did send me copies of both the Policy Summary and the full Policy  Document, 
which contained quite  a lot of information about how the PPI worked. 
Having specifically searched out a PPI policy himself, signed up for it on-line  and presumably paid 
for it, Ive got no reason to think that Mr G wouldnt  have had very similar information, to that 
described above, presented  to him whilst making  his way through the on-line form.  
I also feel that Mr G would  have been sent copies  of the above documents  and other similar 
information after finishing  the on-line part of the process. He himself  says he received key facts  
information at the point of policy inception. Reading through these would have explained about the 
policy hed bought. I can also see that Mr G was sent a policy schedule which  set out the cost, what  
was covered, what the monthly benefit was in the event of a claim,  and how long the policy  could 
have paid out for.
Ref: DRN25408794Its also important to be very clear that as a non-advised  sale Cignas responsibility  was limited to 
making sure the information provided  was clear, fair and not misleading  so he could make an 
informed choice for himself about what he ought to do. Deciding whether it fitted his needs, was for 
Mr G to consider.
So overall, as Ive explained above that I think the provision of information  to Mr G would have been 
good enough  for him to make an informed  decision. I cant say for sure that Cigna  did everything  
right. But the policy information he would have been sent seems clear  and easy to read. And at the 
very least, he would have  been given  a cooling off period to assess these documents. But I think its 
highly likely he would  have had access to very similar  information throughout  the course  of the sale. 
Periodic PPI statements then show Mr G was corresponded with in the subsequent  years,  together 
with evidence of the cost,  who was insured and what for, all being available to him. I note he kept the 
cover for quite few years.
was the cover of use?
Its not for me to speculate as to why Mr G and Mrs G decided to buy a PPI policy. But their 
mortgage was a loan secured against their home and so the consequences  of not being  able to keep 
up payments could have been serious. So, I can understand why the PPI would have been 
something they wanted to have. The £9.45 monthly cost also doesnt look to me as if would have 
been unaffordable for them. In the event of a successful  claim, the PPI could have  paid out £690 for 
up to 6 months. I think all of this was of use.
Our first adjudicator  didnt  think the policy  was mis-sold, mainly for all the above reasons. But when 
our second  adjudicator looked into Mr Gs employment circumstances, they thought  claiming  for 
unemployment might  difficult for Mr G. 
Ive thought carefully about  this, but I dont agree.
I think  Mr G was eligible  for the cover and I dont think he would have been caught by the main  
exclusions in the policy. He was covered by the PPI against  illness and injury  elements and I cant 
see any issues  that would have prevented a claim  for these. 
For the unemployment  element, I can see no reason why he wouldnt have been eligible to make a 
successful claim  for that too. The policy said unemployment  wasnt covered  if resulting from the 
natural expiry of a fixed-term contract. Mr G was on a 3 year fixed-term contract.
However, as Ive said, I think the employment conditions  and other information, would have  been 
made clear. And I still think he would have been able to make such a claim anyway. 
This is because looking  at the dates when his fixed-term employment contract  began, if Mr G had 
lost his job relatively  early in the life of his new PPI policy, that unemployment event would have 
been outside  the natural  expiry of a fixed-term contract  therefore it would have been claimable for 
under the policy rules.
If hed become unemployed  much later  say, at the end of his fixed term contract  he would  have 
also been covered. Thats because  under the policy  rules,  unemployment wasnt covered unless 
immediately prior to your claim, you have been employed  on a contract  with the same employed for 
a period of 24 months or more. At the end of his contract Mr G would have been so employed and 
therefore able to claim.
So Im afraid I dont agree  with our second adjudicator, who portrayed Mr G as a temporary worker. 
Looking at his circumstances and profession, he was clearly more than this and, crucially, able to 
make a claim for everything  the policy covered, subject to obviously meeting certain criteria.
summary
Ref: DRN25408795I accept the information either party is able to provide  is less than perfect  after this length of time. But 
I can see currently no basis  for upholding this complaint.
I recognise that Mr G will be disappointed, but the facts clearly indicate  that he went on-line to source 
a PPI policy  for a mortgage he and Mrs G already had. This was a voluntary action and it was his 
responsibility to make  sure the policy  was something that suited  his and Mrs Gs financial situation. 
The policy was properly consented to, information  seems to have been comprehensively disclosed, 
and the PPI protection  was of use.
So I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  or direct Cigna Insurance  Services (Europe) Limited 
to do anything.  I now invite all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to 
consider by 14 July 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2540879