K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr R says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R has told us that the PPI wasnt discussed  with him but I think  Lloyds made it clear that 
Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why he cant remember this. I say this because Ive been given a copy  of the credit card 
application form completed at the time.  On this form there is a section for the PPI and I can 
see that the box has been ticked to indicate that Mr R wanted to take out the cover. Mr R 
has signed the form which suggests  this reflected what he wanted. As Mr R was signing to 
agree to the terms  of a new financial commitment, I would have expected  him to have 
looked over the document before signing. There was also the option  to tick no if the cover 
wasnt required. So if Mr R didnt  want to take out the PPI he could have ticked  the no box.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he 
seems to have  had a need  for the cover.
Mr R has told us that he would  receive  sick pay for at least six months  from his employer 
if he was too ill to work. But this policy would pay out for up to 12 months which would  be 
in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick pay he would receive. And the 
policy would pay out for the same length of time if he was to lose his job. As Mr R doesnt 
appear to have had any savings  or other means  with which  to meet  his repayments if he 
wasnt earning, I think this policy could have provided a useful benefit to him.
Its possible  the information Lloyds gave  Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont  think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN26880842To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2688084