K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy in 2007  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the PPI policy over the phone  and were sent documents  to sign and return back  
to YBS. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs G for accident and sickness  only  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £5.69 a month.  
At the time,  Mrs G was employed  as a nurse. She has told us was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  she be unable to 
work. Mrs G has said she suffered from some  medical conditions  prior to the sale.  
Mr and Mrs G have had a number of PPI policies attached  to different account numbers with 
YBS in the past. But this decision  has only looks at the policy taken  out in Mrs Gs sole name  
in 2007. 
 
Mr and Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means YBS should have told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and 
Ref: DRN29902992The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
It is also relevant to note that there have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
Ref: DRN29902993General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
Ref: DRN29902994misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and YBS,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Due to the length of time thats passed  there is no longer a call recording for me to listen to. 
But I have seen some  of the documents that were  sent to Mr and Mrs G while they were in 
the process or arranging their mortgage  and PPI. 
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI illustration which set out the level of cover discussed. This 
document shows that the cover was selected  for Mrs G for accident  and sickness  only and 
the cost and benefit of the policy. There is also a copy of a mortgage  offer which clearly 
states that it wasnt compulsory for Mr and Mrs G to take out any insurance alongside their 
mortgage except  for buildings insurance. So, I think it was clear  to Mr and Mrs G that they 
didnt have to take out the PPI, and they chose  the level of cover to suit your needs. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs G knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
There is conflicting evidence about  whether or not the PPI was advised. But it is not 
necessary for me to make  a definitive decision on this point because even if YBS had made 
a recommendation  to Mr and Mrs G I think the recommendation was suitable  for the reasons 
Ive outlined below.   
As an advised sale YBS had to advise  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was exactly was discussed,  the documentary  evidence suggests 
that YBS took some steps to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs G. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Gs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  a financial review was 
completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs G had a need for the policy  by asking 
questions about  their wider circumstances   I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. I say this because I havent  seen any evidence that YBS asked Mr and Mrs G about 
all their circumstances at the time  including whether Mrs G had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Ref: DRN29902995Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded YBS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded YBS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded YBS did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  Mrs G would not have received any sick 
pay if she was unable  to work  due to illness, and she didnt  have any savings she 
could fall back on. The policy would have helped Mr and Mrs G manage the 
consequences if Mrs G was unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
Regarding pre-existing  medical  conditions, Mrs G has told us about some medical 
conditions she suffered from in 1996  and 2001. But this was a long time prior to the 
sale of the PPI and she hasnt  told us that these conditions caused her any ongoing 
problems. So, I think its unlikely Mrs G would need to claim for either of these 
conditions in the future and so I still think the policy was suitable for her. There  were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or hospitalisation, it still provided  useful  cover  given Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  YBS gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what YBS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs G was unable to work through accident  or sickness) and of the approximate  costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for. And Ive seen that the cost and 
benefit of the policy  was supplied on the information Mr and Mrs G saw before the policy  
was taken out.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs G agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G Im not persuaded YBS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
Ref: DRN29902996fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded YBS gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that YBS ought to have done either. 
what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent  did Mr and 
Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that YBS didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs G. 
So, I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs G suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out the policy, had YBS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded YBS took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if YBS had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN29902997Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when YBS advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs G were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to:
o any condition, injury,  illness, disease or sickness or related condition and/or  
associated symptoms,  whether diagnosed or not, which  Mrs G knew  about or 
should reasonably have known  about at the start date, 
oor which you had seen or arranged to see a doctor about during the 12 
months immediately before the start date and which reoccurs  within 12 
months of the start date; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs G was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. As Ive explained  above,  even though  
Mrs G says she suffered from some medical  conditions prior to the sale of the PPI  for the 
same reasons I think the policy  was still suitable, I dont think this wouldve changed  her 
decision about taking  out the cover. So, I still think they had some good reasons  to take the 
policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would 
Ref: DRN29902998have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mrs G needed  to be totally unable to do her normal job and not 
be doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what  she would have 
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  she would have thought shed  been  able to 
make a successful claim if she was still working.
YBS may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  but they 
had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs G would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mrs G was unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs G would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN29902999Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2007  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find YBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2990299