K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that St Andrews Insurance  Plc mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them  alongside a mortgage  in 2003. 
I know that Mr and Mrs O took their mortgage  and this PPI out through Halifax. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc is responsible  for complaints like this about Halifax.  But to keep 
things simple, Ill refer to Halifax for the rest of this decision. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said I wasnt minded to uphold the 
complaint. A copy is attached and forms part of my final decision. 
Both parties  told us theyve received  my provisional  view. But neither party made any further 
representations. And I havent been  sent any further  evidence  to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
As I havent  been  given any further information to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings. And so for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I havent 
upheld this complaint.  I dont need to tell Halifax  to take any further action.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against St Andrews Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that St Andrews  Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
to them alongside  a mortgage in 2003. 
I know that Mr and Mrs O took their mortgage and this PPI out through Halifax. 
St Andrews  Insurance  Plc is responsible for complaints  like this about Halifax. But to keep things  
simple, Ill refer to Halifax  for the rest of this decision. 
Ref: DRN26230222background
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it had been made clear to Mr 
and Mrs O that the policy was optional  and they didnt have  to buy it if they didnt want  it. Halifax didnt  
agree with that view.  So the matter has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Provisionally, I dont think this complaint  should be upheld.  Ill explain why below. 
The first thing I need to establish is how the sale took place. Mr and Mrs O told us that it was sold 
during a meeting  with Halifax at the same time they applied for their mortgage. I dont doubt  that what 
Mr and Mrs O have told us is what they honestly remember about  the sale. But for the reasons  Ive 
set out below,  I dont think what theyve remembered is right.
I say this because Mr and Mrs O applied  for their mortgage in August 2003 and the loan started  
shortly afterwards in September  2003. Ive seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Os insurance certificate and I 
dont think the PPI policy  started until November 2003. Halifax told us that it usually sold policies like 
this either by post or over the telephone after the mortgage had been agreed.  Looking at the dates  
here, I think thats probably what happened in 
Mr and Mrs Os case. Thats because if the policy had been sold at the same time as they applied  for 
the mortgage, Id expect the PPI to have started on or around the same date. 
With that in mind, Ive thought carefully about whether  Mr and Mrs O would have known they had a 
choice about buying the PPI. I know  our adjudicator didnt think  they did. But I dont think  theyd  have 
thought the cover was a condition of their borrowing  if it wasnt sold to them  until after their mortgage 
started. And I think theyd  have known they could  have turned  the PPI down  if they didnt want  it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a more  difficult  test for Halifax to satisfy because  it had to 
make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Os needs.  To help me decide whether the policy was 
suitable for them, Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
I can see the policy was set up to cover Mr O only. And as Mrs O wasnt working at that time,  I think 
that was an appropriate recommendation. If Mr and Mrs O had to make a claim  on the PPI, their 
mortgage repayments would  have  been  covered for up to 24 months if Mr O became unwell or if he 
lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs O told us that Mr O would have received between three months and six months sick pay if 
he wasnt able to work.  And they also said they didnt  have any other means of meeting  their 
mortgage commitments if he became  unwell or if he lost his job. I think  the PPI would have paid out 
for longer  than the provision  Mr and Mrs O already had in place. And as this mortgage was secured 
on their home, there was a significant risk to it if they fell behind with their repayments. 
Mr O appears to have been in good health  at the time so I dont think hed have been affected by any 
of the policys exclusions about medical conditions. And I havent seen anything  unusual  about his 
employment circumstances  that would have prevented him from making a successful claim  if he 
needed to. Taking all of this into account, I think the PPI probably was suitable for Mr and Mrs Os 
needs. 
Halifax had to give Mr and Mrs O enough information about the policy so they could decide for 
themselves whether the policy was a good fit for their needs. I accept its possible that Mr and Mrs O 
werent given all of the information they should have been given. But I dont think  more  or better 
information about the PPI would have put them  off buying the policy. I say this because  as they chose 
Ref: DRN26230223to buy it, it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And Ive set out above how it could have been 
helpful to them if Mr O was out of work. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs O, particularly as our adjudicator took a 
different view to me. But it follows that I dont propose to uphold the complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs O. 
my provisional  decision
Provisionally, I dont uphold this complaint and at this stage,  I dont require St Andrews Insurance Plc 
to take any action to put things right.  
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider 
by 9 February 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2623022