K820x#14complaint
Mrs L, on behalf of the estate of Mr W, complains  that Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited made Mr W an unaffordable loan. And she further complains about the settling of the 
outstanding finance and the manner in which that was handled. She wants  compensation.
background
Mrs L, on behalf of the estate of Mr W, is represented by her son, Mr L, and for ease  of 
reading Ill mostly refer to him.
Mr L tells us that Mr W took out a hire purchase agreement  in September  2017.  Mr L feels  
this was unaffordable as Mr W was in poor health  and had not been able to work  much in the 
preceding months.  And he says that when Mr W suffered a further serious health issue  a few 
months later - which prevented him from driving - VWFS did not treat him fairly.  He said it 
wouldnt take the vehicle back and had told Mr W that - whilst he could return the vehicle and 
end the agreement - hed need to pay approximately £8,000 to do so. As a result he said 
Mr W had decided to carry on with the agreement - as he couldnt afford that amount - 
despite not being able to drive the vehicle.
Mr L further says that VWFS - had it not been  for his intervention  in the negotiations 
regarding the settlement  of the finance  agreement after Mr Ws death - would also have 
required Mrs L to pay around £8,000  and return the vehicle. A sum which he says would  
have wiped out Mr Ws estate. And that when an offer was made by a dealer - with links to 
VWFS - to buy the vehicle - the offer was later reduced leaving a larger  shortfall. He feels 
VWFS has been motivated by the desire  for financial  gain above any consideration for the 
family of Mr W.
VWFS told us that Mr Ws application  for finance had been auto approved using its 
underwriting process.  It said Mr W had previously  had two agreements - without ever 
missing a payment.  And that the payments on the new agreement were  substantially less 
(by around  £250  per month) than the earlier agreements. It said it felt Mr W was able to 
afford the repayments  and it was not allowed to discriminate against his age and deny him 
finance.
VWFS also told us that when a customer passes away the debt is not written-off. It passes to 
the estate. It says it offered the representatives  of the estate  a number of options:
1.Take over the agreement and retain ownership of the vehicle;
2.Voluntarily Terminate the agreement subject to meeting the 50% of the total amount  
payable on the agreement;
3. Sell the car privately in order to minimise  any shortfall;
Ref: DRN22573762It said in this case the representatives  had agreed  to sell the vehicle for fair market value. 
And that VWFS had waived a settlement shortfall of over £860 to assist  the family at this 
difficult time.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2019. I said I did not intend to 
uphold the complaint as I did not think the loan was unaffordable. And I found  that VWFS 
had acted fairly and had accepted a lower figure  for settlement than was contractually  due. 
Since my provisional decision theres  been no reply  from VWFS. Mr L has replied and         
stated his disagreement with my provisional  view. He still considers VWFS has told lies 
about how it calculated  the settlement figure. And he maintains Mr W was unable to afford 
the loan as his only means  of income  was state pension.
I thank Mr L for his reply  but as theres  been no new evidence supplied  I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision which is largely repeated  in my final decision which is set out 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr L and his mother have  had to deal with the issues  raised in this complaint  at 
such a difficult time for them. And I appreciate how upsetting it can be if it is perceived that 
other parties  - whilst  dealing  with the necessary practicalities - appear insensitive to the 
emotional stress and sense of bereavement  that close family members are experiencing. 
At the outset I feel I should explain some constraints which are going to affect part of my 
decision. Im aware that in some  correspondence  Mr L has made reference to what he saw 
as technicalities being used to justify the view of the adjudicator. And he felt similarly about  
a reply from another colleague which dealt with an ancillary matter relating to this complaint. 
This service is authorised  by both statute  (The Financial Services  and Markets Act, 2000  
and regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). This means that generally we dont 
set our own rules - we have to follow those laid down by the FCA.
DISP 2.7.2 is relevant  here:
A complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased person who 
would have been an eligible complainant) by a person authorised  by the eligible complainant  
or authorised by law. It is immaterial whether the person authorised  to act on behalf of an 
eligible complainant is himself an eligible complainant.
DISP 2.7.3 states:
An eligible  complainant must be a person that is:
(1)a consumer; or..
So its matter of law and regulation - not a technicality - which  dictates who may bring 
complaint and in what capacity  that complaint is brought.
Ref: DRN22573763Here the complainant is Mrs L, and a literal interpretation of the regulations would not have 
permitted her to bring this complaint without a grant of probate  - as that is the legal authority 
required to act on behalf of an estate. But with small estates its our policy not to require this 
- subject to the relevant business not requiring a formal legal authority to be obtained.  In this 
case VWFS did not do so - which  in the circumstances seems to be me to be both a fair and 
correct approach.
But whilst Mrs L is the complainant, she is not the consumer - rather  she is the 
representative of the consumer (Mr W). In the context of this complaint I can only make 
awards to a consumer  (or his estate)  about  issues which affected him personally. I cant 
make awards directly to the person representing  the consumer.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in line with our fair and 
reasonable remit. And where evidence is incomplete or unclear - as some  of it is here - Im 
required to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive been given a lot of material to consider and if I dont comment upon each item its not 
because Ive not taken it on board. Its just that I dont think  I need  mention it separately in 
order to reach what I think is the correct  outcome.
Ill deal first with the issue of affordability and explain our approach to such complaints. 
Affordability is a relative  term.  And it requires evidence of two aspects of a consumers 
finances in order  for a judgment to be made. That is income and expenditure. One without 
the other renders an assessment of affordability  problematic.
There are no fixed criteria a business  has to observe before granting a loan, but each 
business is responsible for obtaining sufficient  information about a customers finances to 
satisfy it that the customer is able to afford  the repayments. Checks have to be adequate 
and sufficient and this can include - but is not limited  to - details of income,  expenditure and 
past credit  history.
Im aware Mr L thinks it should  have  been  obvious  to the agent that Mr W couldnt afford a 
loan. But the evidence does not lead me to that conclusion. VWFS had information  about 
Mr Ws income, his past credit history  and the fact that he declared himself  able to afford  the 
repayments. Hed also paid a deposit. But Mr L thinks the dealers  previous  knowledge  of 
Mr W should have made  him realise his health  had deteriorated.
I wouldnt expect a non-medical  professional  to try to assess  a customers  capacity to make  
decisions unless there were clear and outward  signs of a disability  in this respect. Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence  that this was the case. And I also note that the medical  reason why 
Mr W had to give up driving was unpredictable and entirely unexpected.
But I think the affordability checks were probably not adequate as certain assumptions seem  
to have been made without confirming their accuracy. And I also think  VWFS should have 
considered if/how  Mr L was going to make the final optional balloon  payment. But even 
where checks are not adequate, Im still required  to consider the question  of whether the 
loan was actually  affordable.
Ref: DRN22573764Im aware it has hasnt been possible for bank statements  and other documentary evidence  
of expenditure  to be provided. And I understand the reasons for that. But I do have evidence 
of Mr Ws income.  And whilst that was predominantly from state pension it does seem - 
completely ignoring  any income from self-employment - that there was just under £500 per 
month left after the monthly repayments.  Mr L has disputed this but the evidence of income 
is taken from Mr Ws self-assessment  tax return  and reveals a pension  income  of just over 
£770 per month - not £712 as Mr L suggests.  And its not disputed  the monthly repayments 
were £287.86. Whilst I dont know Mr Ws specific  outgoings, Im able to estimate the typical 
living costs  incurred by similar households, including food,  utility  bills and council tax.
Im not saying that its ok for a business  not to do affordability checks. Im simply explaining 
that - where there is a complaint of unaffordability  - its up to the complainant to produce 
evidence of expenditure so it can be compared  with income.  And details of total expenditure 
is something only a complainant would know. So where - as in this case - such evidence  has 
not been supplied - I cant reasonably  say the loan was unaffordable.
So far as the offers  VWFS made  upon learning  of Mr Ws inability to drive  - Ive seen the 
notes recorded  on its system. These notes indicate  options were discussed  with Mr W - 
including voluntary termination (VT). And VWFS appears to have been  aware  of its 
obligations to a customer indicating they were in financial difficulties. It had requested  
evidence of Mr Ws condition along  with an income  and expenditure check. And on 
14 May 2018 theres a note marked Collections Support Review which  amongst  other  
items states:
No arrears
I&E not returned
Medical evidence  not received
Need to discuss how we can assist
Two days later a further entry  indicates Mr W had decided  to sell the vehicle. Sadly,  Mr W 
died before the administration of his choice could  be processed.  I cant  say that VWFS did 
anything wrong  here, as it followed the terms of the agreement in offering Mr W various 
options to end it. And that process  had not been  completed at the time of his death. So its 
not possible to say how VWFS would  have dealt with any deficit  which  might  have arisen.  
And whilst Mr L has stated Mr W wasnt intending to sell the vehicle - theres  no persuasive 
evidence to support  this assertion. And as selling the vehicle was probably  the most 
financially prudent means of disposal - as indeed  it subsequently proved to be - I think  its 
likely that is what Mr W had intended.
Im aware that Mr L is very upset about  what happened after Mr Ws death and how VWFS 
handled his and his mothers attempts to end the finance agreement. And I can understand 
why he feels this way.
After learning of Mr Ws death VWFS again  offered various options  as to how the agreement 
could be settled. And - when Mr L indicated that the family didnt want to have  to deal with 
selling the car privately - VWFS offered to assist by contacting a local dealer to see if it 
would buy the vehicle. Unfortunately this seems to have  led to further differences  as an initial  
valuation of the vehicle - which I believe  was £16,100 - was then reduced.  I cant hold VWFS 
responsible for this as the local dealer is a separate business - even if it has links to the 
Ref: DRN22573765same parent company as VWFS. And as the dealer  is not a party  to this complaint I cant 
comment upon the reasons for its actions  or make  any findings about them. And as VWFS 
has written off over £800 of the shortfall  resulting from the sale of the vehicle I think  it has 
acted fairly.
Mr L has questioned  the sale price that the dealership subsequently  placed  upon the vehicle 
which was over £2,000  in excess of the purchase price. As Ive explained already, I cant  
investigate the dealer  and in any event the price at which a vehicle is advertised for sale is a 
matter of commercial judgment  for the business  concerned. And theres  no guarantee such  a 
price will be obtained.
Mr L has also raised concerns about the way which VWFS  treated Mrs L prior to his 
involvement. He says VWFS put Mrs L under pressure and had it not been for his 
intervention its probable  she would have opted for the VT of the vehicle. He says this would 
have resulted in a shortfall of around £8,000 which would have wiped-out any funds from the 
estate. I dont think its a matter for VWFS to question the reasons  for which  an executor of 
an estate chooses  a particular option. VWFS was required to do no more than make the 
options available and complete the relevant administration process. I dont  think  it did 
anything wrong  in this.
Ill now deal with the issue of compensation which Mr L seeks for way in which VWFS dealt 
with the agreement before and after Mr Ws death  and the way in which  it treated both him 
and Mrs L thereafter.  And Im aware  he disagrees both with the adjudicator and my 
colleague who have  explained that this service cannot compensate  individuals  who are not - 
in their personal capacity  - consumers and/or parties  to the agreement  which  gives  rise to 
the complaint.
Mr L has suggested The customer is deceased at this point the estate (my mother) 
becomes the customer if this is not the case she wouldnt be liable for the debt.   Ive  taken 
this to mean that he feels that as Mrs L was Mr Ws executor and/or sole beneficiary she in 
effect takes over the agreement and becomes a customer of VWFS. As such  he feels she - 
and by extension  as her representative he also - would be entitled  to receive compensation if 
they experience  poor service or are not treated fairly.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account  and I think  Mr L has 
misunderstood the legal position  which follows  upon the death of a party  to a finance 
agreement.
As the named executor - I understand probate wasnt required as it was a small estate - 
Mrs L was required to deal with the estate  in accordance with existing legislation. One of the 
duties of an executor  is to settle the debts of the deceased from any assets he held.
But in the event of insufficient assets being available an estate is considered insolvent - and 
creditors only receive (if anything) a proportion of the debt owed.  So if Mr Ws assets had not 
been sufficient  to cover any deficit from the agreement - VWFS would have been  obliged to 
write-off any shortfall. Mrs L was not and could not have become personally liable unless 
she herself had separately  entered into a new agreement  regarding the vehicle with VWFS.
Similarly, in her dealings with VWFS Mrs L was acting  on behalf of the estate - not in her 
personal capacity. And as her representative,  Mr L - in regard to any action which Mrs L was 
able to delegate to him - was also acting  for the estate.
Ref: DRN22573766So any distress and upset  they experienced - and Im not doubting the feelings they 
articulated - arose from their roles in handling  the estate - not as parties to the agreement or 
as consumers.
In summary,  for the reasons given above  I dont think the loan was unaffordable. And I think  
that VWFS has, overall, acted fairly in the way in which  it has agreed to settle  the 
agreement. Its waived a significant amount when the sale proceeds  failed to cover the 
deficit on the agreement.
So I cant say the estate has suffered any financial loss arising  from the agreement which
arose from any failings on the part of VWFS.
I dont find that VWFS  did anything that would make it fair and reasonable for me to award  
compensation. But on the facts of this complaint - even  if I had decided  compensation was 
appropriate - Id be unable to make  any award to either Mr L or Mrs L personally as they are 
not consumers  or parties to the agreement to which the complaint relates.
So whilst I know my decision will disappoint  both Mrs L and Mr L Im not going to uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mr W to accept  or reject  my decision before 14 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2257376