K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2003. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Mr M says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint because I dont think FICL gave Mr M clear  enough 
information about the policy. 
I say this because  I dont think FICL gave Mr M clear enough information about  the policy 
costs. For example Mr M may have been told what the cost was per £1 of the outstanding 
balance. But I think its unlikely he wouldve been told that the premium  would  be added to 
the card balance and could  attract interest.  I also think  it unlikely FICL  pointed out that the 
benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Mr M would have to continue  paying the 
premium while receiving  the policy benefit.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr M because  at the point of sale he was entitled  to sick 
pay from his employer worth at least six months  of full pay. So he couldve met the card 
payments for a while  without the PPI. I say this taking into account  that Mr M has said he 
was entitled to full pay for six months and half pay for six months after that.
I dont think Mr M would have wanted to take the policy if he had better  understood its cost 
and limited benefit. Taking everything  into account, I dont think  Mr M wouldve bought the 
policy if FICL had given him enough information  about it. So I think  Mr M has lost out 
because of what FICL did wrong.
Ive thought about all FICLs points, including what it has said about  not believing  that Mr M 
wouldve received  the level of benefits he remembers. FICL says that in his area of work he 
wouldve needed at least five years service to receive twelve months of benefits.  But FICL 
hasnt given us anything to support this  or to show that it applied to Mr M at the time he 
took the PPI. So, having  considered  this carefully  and taking everything into account, I still 
think I should uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN28857742putting things right
I understand Mr Ms card account is closed. 
FICL should put Mr M in the financial  position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr M would have owed when he closed his card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for 
the claim from the compensation amount.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until the refund  is paid.  The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr M would have owed each  month without PPI  Mr M 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mr M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress paid to Mr M by the lender  
if the commission redress relates to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can reclaim the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2885774