K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about Bank of Scotland plc (Bank  of Scotland)  reducing his credit  card 
credit limit. He wants his credit  limit to be reinstated to its previous level.  
background
Mr S has held his credit  card with Bank  of Scotland for some  time and had a credit limit of 
more than £10,000. Mr S now lives overseas. 
In January 2018, Mr Ss credit card had a balance outstanding of £81.93. Mr S made  
payment to the account of £81.93 in mid January to clear the account.  
A few days  after Mr S has made his payment, interest was added  to the account, leaving it 
with a balance  of £0.02 in debit. 
This sum appeared  on Mr Ss February  statement, but Mr S did not otherwise use his card 
so no other  transactions appeared. 
No payment was made to the card in February 2018. 
Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr S in March 2018. This said that, following a review, his credit 
limit would be reduced to £500. The letter included a reference to Mr S not having met his 
minimum payment of £0.02  and said that this changed the banks understanding  of the risk 
in lending to him. It said that the change  in limit would take effect  in late May 2018
Mr S used his card in March 2018.  He received his statement and this showed that a late 
payment charge of £12 had been  added to the account and interest had been calculated and 
added. The statement also showed that his credit limit had been reduced  to £500 already. 
Mr S contacted Bank of Scotland and spoke  to an agent. The agent  agreed to refund the 
interest from January  2018, the late payment charge and the interest charged in March  
2018. 
Mr S wanted  the credit  limit of his card to be reinstated  at his higher level.  He was advised  
that the business was not able to reinstate this limit. 
Mr S submitted a complaint. He felt that it was disproportionate to reduce his credit  limit over 
a remaining  balance of £0.02 and did not relate  to his actual circumstances. 
Bank of Scotland responded to Mr S in June 2018. It stood by its decision not to reinstate the 
credit limit. 
Mr S responded to the letter and Bank of Scotland issued a further response in July 2018. 
This acknowledged that the earlier correspondence to Mr S had not been clear and 
explained that the remaining balance  in January was not the reason for the change in his 
credit limit, but instead that the missed payment had triggered a review of his credit limit 
and then, during  that review, the bank had decided to reduce his limit. 
Bank of Scotland acknowledged that the limit had been reduced earlier than Mr S had been 
told it would. It therefore credited  his account  with £150 to reflect that Mr S had had to 
contact Bank  of Scotland on more than one occasion. 
Ref: DRN28234982Mr S was not happy with this response and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties.  This 
was that the bank had not made an error  in reducing  the limit as it was entitled to make  
changes to credit limits,  in line with its terms. She felt that the £150 offered by the business 
was reasonable  to reflect the error in reducing the limit early.  
Mr S was not happy with that view and asked  for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I very much understand Mr Ss frustration at what has happened.  I can imagine it 
feels very unjust for so small an outstanding  balance  to have  triggered  the additions  and 
changes to his account which followed. I also understand that Mr S is primarily concerned 
with having his credit limit reinstated,  rather than compensation for Bank of Scotlands 
errors. 
However, I must look at whether the bank has acted fairly and in line with its terms. Where  a 
business has made errors or acted unfairly  I can consider the impact of those unfair actions 
and what might put things  right. 
In this complaint  the initial issue, where  a tiny balance was left on the account  and incurred 
charges, has been corrected by Bank  of Scotland. I think Bank of Scotland  was right to 
refund the late payment and interest. 
The more  significant  issue for Mr S was that, because of the missed  payment of the £0.02, 
a review of the account was triggered  and Bank  of Scotland then decided to reduce Mr Ss 
credit limit, because he was not a UK resident.  
Bank of Scotland is allowed to decide how much it is prepared to lend to any customer,  and 
it is not obliged  to lend at all. Even  though Mr Ss account had been  managed  well for a long 
period it was continuously open  to Bank of Scotland to revise its lending decision  at any time 
in line with the terms of the account.  
These say that the business may change a customers credit  limit, but that when the change 
is to the customers disadvantage (as here) the business must give at least 30 days  notice of 
the change unless particular circumstances apply.
 
Bank of Scotland was therefore entitled  to reduce Mr Ss credit limit, but should have given 
him advance  notice of this, before  making the change. It does not appear that it gave 
reasonable notice,  as the reduction appeared on Mr Ss March  statement, significantly 
before the May date given  in the notice letter. I think that this was wrong of Bank of Scotland. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that the change in his limit was because  of his missed payment 
but Bank of Scotland has said it carries out regular reviews of accounts and so it may have 
reviewed the account and made  this decision in any event. 
Ref: DRN28234983As a result, I cannot say that the decision to reduce the credit  limit was wrong, but I think  
Bank of Scotland did not give proper  notice of the change, and its correspondence was 
confusing about  the reason for the change. 
I therefore uphold  part of Mr Ss complaint. 
In looking at how to put things right, Bank of Scotland has already corrected the late 
payment fee and interest. I think that is reasonable. 
Bank of Scotland has also offered £150 compensation for the inconvenience Mr S was 
caused by having to contact Bank  of Scotland in response to its letters. I think  this 
appropriately recognises the inconvenience caused  by its actions. 
I appreciate that Mr S wants to have his credit limit reinstated, but the change  in his limit 
results from a decision Bank of Scotland  was entitled to make. I therefore cannot look at the 
impact of this change upon  Mr S, and do not uphold this part of his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint, but think that Bank of 
Scotland has made a reasonable offer of compensation for its failings. I do not ask Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823498