K821x#15complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
the loan repayments took up so much of his wages that he had to borrow from other lenders 
to make the repayments  and manage his other  expenses. He says this caused him financial 
hardship.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Mr Lender provided to Mr S between  
December 2016  to January 2018. Some of the information Mr Lender  has provided about  the 
lending is contained  in the table  below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 03/12/2016 £350 4 31/05/2017
2 07/09/2017 £350 6 23/01/2018
3 23/01/2018 £1,000 12 outstanding
Our adjudicator has partially upheld the complaint.  Mr Lender disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. It said that the checks it had made were proportionate.  
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN20007622refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint 
in part and have explained why below.
As I mentioned above one of our adjudicators wrote to Mr S and didnt  uphold  his complaint. 
His complaint was then closed. After just over two months Mr S provided some  further  
information which led to our adjudicator partially  upholding the complaint. Because of this 
two month  delay Mr Lender objected  to this service continuing to look at this complaint. 
Whilst we do give a timeline to respond to, there should always be some  flexibility  in these to 
account for circumstances. But whilst the delay  in receiving Mr S response was unfortunate, 
I dont think it was a very long time.  And, I can see that Mr Lender  itself took over six months 
provide its business  file. So it wouldnt be reasonable not to look at Mr S complaint further  
when both parties to the complaint have delayed responding at times. 
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators  opinion about loans 1 and 2. Because  of this 
I dont think there is any ongoing  disagreement about these loans. So I wont  be making  a 
decision about this lending. But they were  part of the borrowing relationship Mr S had with 
Mr Lender and they are something I will take into account when considering loan 3.
why I dont  think Mr Lenders checks were  proportionate for loan 3 and what 
proportionate checks wouldve shown
Mr S took loan 3 just after hed repaid loan 2 and it was for a much higher amount.  And he
was due to make repayments for 12 months.  The highest repayment  would be around £225  
a month. I think this was a long time to commit to make these repayments, given Mr S other  
circumstances.
So I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Mr S may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become  concerned  about  whether it knew enough about 
Mr S true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Mr S financial situation And I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found  out where possible. This is to make sure Mr S 
was able to make the repayments sustainably. I dont think Mr Lender  did this. 
I think that a proportionate  check wouldve shown  that Mr S was having problems managing 
his money. In particular  he was also borrowing  and repaying significant amounts to other  
short term lenders.  This would mean  it was likely that Mr S was borrowing to repay existing 
debts which  isnt sustainable. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen  Mr S wouldnt  have  been  able repay  the loan in 
a sustainable  way. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt  have  given loan 3 to Mr S and I think  
hes lost out as a result  of this. So Im upholding  Mr S complaint about loan 3. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Ref: DRN20007623refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr S credit file;
If Mr S still owes Mr Lender any of the principal  balance he borrowed on this loan, then 
instead of the above, Mr Lender should  remove  all the interest and charges applied to the 
outstanding balance. Mr Lender should  then re-work the account  as if all payments made by 
Mr S went  to towards the principal. But importantly, Mr Lender needs  to make sure that Mr S 
doesnt repay more  than the principal amount borrowed. 
If after doing this Mr S hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Mr Lender can deduct  this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr S has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Mr Lender no longer owns this debt, and it wants  to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr S.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr S complaint.
PDL Finance  Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2000762