K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP (Uncle Buck). She says Uncle Buck  lent to her irresponsibly and 
contributed to her financial  problems.
background
We now know that Miss W took 2 loans  from Uncle Buck. Ive enclosed a summary  of her 
borrowing, based on the information it provided to us, which  can be found  in an appendix at 
the end of this decision.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and told Miss W they didnt think  it should 
be upheld. Miss W didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve  set out our general approach  to complaints 
about short-term  lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  Ive followed this approach when thinking about Miss Ws complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Miss W could repay the loans she was given, in a sustainable manner. These checks ought 
to have taken  into account a range of different  factors such  as the amounts being lent, the 
total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  
to meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income).
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing  may signal that the borrowing  had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Miss Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN23569852Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Miss W, including  
assessing her income and expenditure. It says that based  on what was said,  this information 
showed that Miss W would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing to on 
both occasions.  
For the first loan, in March  2015,  Miss W declared her net income (after tax) as over £1,600 
per month and she also provided details about  her expenditure. The loan was a short-term 
payday loan for £200 and I note she paid back this in full after a short period.
I see Miss W then went on to take out a second  loan with the same  lender directly after the 
first. This was for a higher overall  amount  but it differed from the first in that the repayments 
were over 3 monthly instalments, as opposed to just 1. This meant the monthly  payments 
were only slightly higher than the loan shed just paid off.
Having carefully considered Miss Ws situation, Im afraid I dont think theres enough  
evidence to uphold  her complaint about either loan. I think  the repayments on both would 
most likely have appeared to have been  affordable  to Uncle  Buck when it carried  out its 
financial checks. And bearing  in mind what Ive said about the early stages of a lending 
relationship, both loans monthly repayments  were  relatively small when set against both 
what Miss W said she earned and her other monthly commitments.
I do understand that its possible Miss Ws wider financial situation might  have already been 
in a challenging situation and that she may have  been indebted to other  lenders at the same  
time. And I accept that Miss Ws actual financial position might well have  been  more 
apparent to Uncle Buck if further information, such as full bank statements or more  detailed 
credit checks, had been obtained by it at these stages. But Uncle Buck  made its decision 
based on the information it had available at the time and as it was still in the early stages of 
a lending relationship with Miss W I dont think it had yet reached the stage where  there was 
an obvious and greater risk of either  loan being  unsustainable for her. 
In short,  I think the checks it carried out in this case were  proportionate  and I dont  think the 
lending had yet reached a stage  where it was obviously unsustainable.  So in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  it was irresponsible  for Uncle  Buck to lend Miss W 
either of loans 1 or 2.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Uncle  Buck 
Finance LLP to pay Miss W any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23569853Appendix
Loan Date Amount Repaid Repayment Type
14/03/2015 £200 26/03/2015 1 x £222 pm
01/04/2015 £500 Debt Sold 3 x £247 pm
Ref: DRN2356985