K822xcomplaint
Mrs F complains about charges RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI)  applied  when she 
voluntarily terminated  her Hire Purchase  Agreement. She feels  the charges are too high. 
She would RCI to take a reasonable approach over the charges.
background 
Mrs F says in November 2014  she took out a Hire Purchase Agreement  with RCI for a one 
year old ex rental car with 37,486 miles on the clock.   She says the car had some existing 
damage when  she got it, for example, there  were  some scuffs to the alloys and a small tear 
in some of the stitching  in the rear passenger  seats.  
She says when she decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement she had the car valeted  
before it was inspected. And she felt she had kept the car good condition. So she says she 
was really surprised  to be given a bill for £803  for damage after the car had been inspected. 
She feels she should have been given the chance to have repairs carried out herself but 
wasnt. And that some of the damage, for example, scuffs on the alloy wheels and damage 
to the passenger seats was present when she got the car.
She says when she queried  the bill RCI did agree to reduce it to £284.50 but she still feels  
this is unfair.
RCI said it reduced the initial bill to reflect issues Mrs F raised and as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Fs complaint and upheld it. He recommended that the 
overall bill be reduced  by £63 for the hole in the seat which  he felt could have been present 
when Mrs F got the car.
RCI accepted  this but Mrs F didnt. She wanted to know why she had originally been 
charged such a high amount. She says this, the phone  calls she had to make and the fact 
RCI referred the debt to a debt collection agency (dca)  caused her a lot of stress. She feels  it 
would be reasonable to have a further reduction in the overall charge to reflect this.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. In terms of the initial 
charge he said that RCI used an independent company who would  have used British  Vehicle 
and Leasing Rental  Association (BVRLA) guidelines  to assess  damage. He felt perhaps the 
company wasnt aware the car was an ex rental one and therefore perhaps didnt look 
beyond the existing damage.
He acknowledged  the stress Mrs F would have felt on being given a bill for £803 but felt that 
RCI had to provide  Mrs F with the inspection report. And didnt feel it was unfair for it to raise 
an invoice based  on the information available to it at the time.
He felt RCI had listened  to Mrs Fs points and concerned and as a result had substantially 
reduced the overall bill. He felt RCI had treated Mrs F reasonably.
He didnt feel he could  recommend a further  reduction in charges based on the phone calls 
Mrs F had to make and the stress  of dealing both with this and a dca. He understood the 
latter issue  had been resolved. And noted  the phone calls to RCI had benefitted Mrs F with 
the reduction in her bill.
Ref: DRN20397982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs F feels strongly  about this so I appreciate she is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our adjudicator.
Theres no dispute that when Mrs F ended her Hire Purchase Agreement  with RCI that she 
was initially charged  £803 for damage over and above accepted wear and tear. Nor that 
after her intervention RCI reduced  this to £284.50
Mrs F has said she should have been  given the chance to have any repairs completed. I can 
understand that. I do think some time to take on board the inspection report comments and 
to address this might  have been  reasonable
But Ive seen the agreement Mrs F signed.  That does say she would be liable for any 
damage to the car. So I believe she was aware  this was a possibility and could  have chosen  
to have the car looked at herself prior to inspection. 
In terms of the charges themselves its hard for me to dispute the findings of a report. I have 
however read the report and looked at the accompanying photographs.  But I didnt feel there  
was anything  I felt I could reasonably challenge  on Mrs Fs behalf.  I think the report  could 
only reasonably  be based on what the inspector  found on inspection.
Mrs F said she wanted RCI to treat her fairly. I think RCI has done this. It significantly 
reduced the initial bill from £803 down to £284.50 partly in response to evidence  Mrs F 
provided and partly  as a gesture of goodwill. For example from its customer notes I can see 
It accepted evidence Mrs F gave that she shouldnt be charged for a missing  key as she only 
received one when she got the car.
RCI then accepted our adjudicators recommendation to remove  the charge for seat damage 
think that was a fair recommendation and resolution.  So that means  the overall bill is now 
£221.50. 
 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for RCI to charge the amount stated in the report.  It had no 
reason not to accept the report  findings.  But I also think RCI has shown itself to be 
reasonable in listening  to Mrs Fs points, considering the evidenced she provided and in 
taking on board our adjudicators view.
I appreciate this matter  has caused Mrs F some stress and inconvenience. Unfortunately  
when a customer isnt happy it can take some time to resolve  matters  by phone calls and 
other means. But that isnt always grounds for compensation  or as Mrs F would like 
grounds to further  reduce the bill for damage  to her car. And her communication with RCI did 
have a positive  outcome  in significantly reducing her overall bill.
On the basis of all I have seen I think the reduction  in Mrs Fs bill of £63 for damage to the 
seat is fair. But I dont  feel I have  any grounds  on which  I can reasonably ask RCI to further 
reduce Mrs Fs outstanding bill of £221.50.
Ref: DRN20397983my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  RCI Financial Services Limited should  reduce Mrs Fs overall bill 
down to £221.50
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2039798