K821x#15complaint
Ms B is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited settled her claim on her 
home insurance and with the compensation it has offered  her.
background
In my provisional decision of 2 June 2020  (a copy of which Ive attached to this final 
decision) I set out why I intended to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Both Ms B and Lloyds have accepted my provisional decision and so Ms Bs complaint has 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive already  mentioned,  both Ms B and Lloyds have accepted  the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. And, having looked again at Ms Bs complaint, I cant  see any reason 
why I should change them. 
So, for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I uphold  Ms Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision of 2 June 2020, I uphold Ms Bs complaint  
and direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay her £150  (in addition to the £75 it 
has already paid her) for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused her.
Lloyds should  pay this compensation within 28 days of the date we tell it Ms B has accepted  
my final decision. If it doesnt, it should pay interest  at the rate of 8% per annum simple on 
this compensation  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23409732COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 2 JUNE 2020
complaint
Ms B is unhappy with how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited settled  her claim on her
home insurance and with the compensation it has offered her.
background
Ms B claimed on her home insurance for damage caused to her home  following a leak in her
bathroom.
Lloyds appointed agents to inspect the damage and, having accepted liability,  got a quote
from its contractor for the repairs.  Ms B also got in touch with her own contractors. The two
quotes Ms B got were  significantly higher than the Lloyds  quote. Ms B was concerned that, if
the work was carried out by Lloyds  contractor,  the quality  wouldnt be as good as if her own
did it. To try to resolve things, Lloyds asked Ms B to get a third quote but she refused, having
already got two.
Lloyds then offered Ms B a cash settlement.  But it said its liability was limited to what  its own
contractors costs would be. These, as Ive mentioned, were significantly lower than Ms Bs
quotes. Unhappy with this, Ms B complained. Lloyds  didnt think it had dealt with Ms Bs settlement 
unfairly. But it didnt think it shouldve  asked her to get the third quote.  So Lloyds paid Ms B £75 in 
compensation for the inconvenience this caused her by delaying her claim.
Unhappy with this outcome, Ms B complained  to us. The investigator who looked at Ms Bs
complaint upheld  it. He didnt think Lloyds  had dealt  with Ms Bs settlement fairly. And he
thought this had caused  Ms B unnecessary trouble and upset and so Lloyds should  pay
Ms B an additional £350 in compensation for this. Lloyds disagrees with our investigators findings 
and so Ms Bs complaint has come to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint. But, for the reasons  Ill give, its my
intention to direct Lloyds  to pay Ms B £150 in compensation, rather than the £350 our
investigator recommended. Like our investigator, I think the main  issue for me to think about in this 
complaint is whether Lloyds settled Ms Bs complaint fairly. And like him, I dont think  it did.
Many home  insurance  policies have a term saying that, where an insurer offers  a cash
settlement instead of carrying out repairs itself because thats  what  its customer  wants, it
only has to pay out what its contractor wouldve charged it to do the work. But in Ms Bs
case, having  looked at her policy document, theres no term saying  this. So in these slightly
unusual circumstances, I think  Lloyds  shouldve  agreed to pay the full cost of the lowest of
Ms Bs quotes.
In not doing this, I think  Lloyds caused Ms B both distress and inconvenience.  It has already
compensated her for its mistake in asking her to get a third quote, which it accepts was
unreasonable. But I think it needs to go further.  Lloyds  has pointed  out that it took Ms B a
while to get her two quotes. But if it had accepted one of them after she sent in the second
one in the middle  of October 2018,  I think  Ms B wouldve  had a very different claims
experience to the one shes had.
I think  its likely Ms B wouldve been able to get the repairs started  more quickly than she
was able to in the end. And I think she wouldve  had the peace of mind of using a contractor
it seems shed used before  and trusted.  So I think shes lost out and suffered distress and
Ref: DRN23409733inconvenience because  neither of these things happened. Its for that reason that I think
Lloyds should pay Ms B an additional £150  in compensation.
As Ive mentioned, our investigator thought Lloyds should pay Ms B £350 in compensation
for the trouble  and upset it had caused her. In his view, he comments  that the repairs were
still incomplete at the time he wrote the view and this was more  than nine months after Ms B
had first made her claim. This is true. But there are reasons for these  things that are linked
to two other complaints  Ms B has made to Lloyds  about how her claim  was dealt with by it,
subsequent to this complaint. And she has accepted the compensation Lloyds offered  her
when it upheld these  two more recent complaints. 
I think  that to award Ms B compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she experienced after 
shed made  this first complaint  and for which shes already  been compensated by Lloyds  wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable. And thats why I think £150 rather than £350 more accurately reflects the 
impact Lloyds failings, as Ive identified them in this complaint, have had on Ms B.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I intend to uphold Ms Bs complaint and direct Lloyds Bank
General Insurance  Limited to pay her £150 (in addition  to the £75 it has already paid) for the
distress and inconvenience  it has caused  her.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2340973