K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc will not refund all of the money they lost
after Mrs C fell victim to a scam.
background
On Friday 15 March  2019,  Mrs C received a phone call from someone claiming  to be from
Bank of Scotland. It turned out this person was a scammer. Mrs C fell victim  to the scam and
transferred over £39,000 from her and her husbands  accounts.
the time of the scam
Mrs C told me the time around the scam  sticks in her mind because  it had been a difficult
week. They  had been back  and forth to the hospital  as Mr C, who was aged  77 at the time,
was unwell and receiving treatment. Mrs C explains she received a phone call on the
landline shortly after theyd returned  home from the hospital, which was around 11am. 
The scammer said he was calling from the banks  fraud squad and told her someone in 
another city was trying  to make payments of £6,500 and £1,900  from her current account.  
Mr and Mrs C had more than £8,400 available in their joint current  account at this time so the
alleged attempted  fraud wasnt implausible.
Mrs C asked how she could know she was really  speaking  with someone from 
Bank of Scotland. The scammer told her he would call her mobile from the number that 
appears on the back of her bank card. Mrs C says that she gave him her mobile  number. 
When the call came through, Mrs C says the phone number on the screen matched the one 
on her card.  She describes the scammer as totally convincing.
Mrs C has described what  happened as best as she can remember. She told me the
conversations felt never ending  and explained  that the scammer had to call her back so
that she could  have a break and something to eat. She remarked that her head was in a
whirr when she came off the phone after speaking to him. Based on the timings of the
payments and what Mrs C has told me, it seems  like she was in contact with the scammer
for around  four hours across numerous  phone  calls.
The scammer told Mrs C she needed to secure her money by logging into her online banking
and transferring it into holding accounts to keep it safe. He also said that he would need to
arrange for Mr and Mrs C to have new account  cards and PIN numbers delivered. Mrs C
says the scammer  told her people in the bank were involved. Mrs C told me that shed
recently seen a television programme where  an ex-employee  of a bank had been stealing
money so she thought  it was something that could happen.
Mrs C recalled the scammer had told her she might need to speak to another  department in
the bank to approve the payments. Mrs C says she was instructed to say yes to making the
payment even if the bank warned her not to. The scammer told her he was certain  there
were insiders at the bank who had disclosed her private account details. Mrs C says the
scammer told her she should talk normally and not panic.
I asked Mrs C what happened  when  the bank called  her. Mrs C told me the scammer  was
still connected on the mobile phone  and told her to keep it nearby so that he could listen to
what was happening.  Mrs C told me the scammer  knew exactly what  the bank would do and
the questions  it would  ask. Mrs C said the scammer  had told her what  to say when asked
Ref: DRN29295282and that shed had to write it down so she got it right.
Mrs C told me she thought the scammer  was genuine because the phone number he
contacted her from matched exactly with the one on the back  of her debit card.  She also said
that everything happened as the scammer  told her it would, including  the calls to verify some
of the payments. She told me the scammer  knew all of the questions  the bank would ask
her, so she had no reason to disbelieve  anything shed been told.
Mrs C told me the scammer  ended the call by making arrangements  to speak  with her again 
at 11am  on Monday 18 March. Mrs C told me she didnt think  this was unusual for things to 
be followed  up on a Monday because her local branch  isnt open over the weekend. When  
Mrs C didnt receive a call, she contacted the bank  herself. Mrs C said she realised shed 
been the victim of a scam when the bank told her they hadnt arranged  a phone call and had 
no record of it.
Bank of Scotland took steps to try and recover the funds shed sent, but only £0.57
remained. It told Mrs C that it was unlikely to be able to recover any more of the money and
suggested that Mr and Mrs C contact the police.
the payments
Ive set out below what  took place each time Mrs C made a payment to the scammer.  
All of the payments  were  paid from Mr and Mrs Cs joint account.
payment one - £1,900
Mrs C tried to make  the payment online.  She had to set up a new payee.  The payment was
stopped for additional security checks.  Mrs C phoned the bank and spoke  to a call handler  in
Bank of Scotlands fraud team. Following the call, the payment was approved.
These are the steps Mrs C took:
11.02am Mrs C logged into her online banking
11.05am Mrs C sets up new payee  details  payee  one
11.06am automated phone call from the bank  to Mrs Cs landline  to complete new payee set 
up
11.15am £1900  payment attempted but is flagged up as unusual
11.27am Mrs C logs off her online banking
11.40am Phone call from Mrs C to Bank of Scotland  4 minutes and 31 seconds.  The call
recording has been provided to me.
11.44am Payment  of £1900 is approved on the phone
payment two - £6,500
Mrs C made  this payment  online. She had to set up a new payee. No further checks were 
made.
These are the steps Mrs C took:
11.51am Mrs C logged into her online banking
11.53am Mrs C sets up new payee  details  payee  two
Ref: DRN2929528311.57am automated phone call from the bank  to Mrs Cs landline  to complete new payee set 
up
11.59am Payment  of £6,500 is made
11.59am Mrs C logs off
payment three - £2,500
Mrs C made  this payment  online. She had to set up a new payee. No further checks were 
made.
These are the steps Mrs C took:
12.00pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
12.01pm Mrs C logged off her online banking
12.02pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
12.07pm Mrs C sets up new payee  details  payee  three
12.10pm automated phone call from the bank  to Mrs Cs landline  to complete new payee set 
up
12.13pm Payment  of £2,500 is made
12.13pm Mrs C logs off
payment four - £5,000
Mrs C attempted to make this payment online to the same account details she set up in
payment one. The payment was stopped for additional security checks. Mrs C phoned the
bank and spoke  to a call handler in Bank  of Scotlands fraud team. Following the call, the
payment was approved.
These are the steps Mrs C took:
12.20pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
12.26pm Mrs C transfers £7,000 from her sole current account into the joint current account
12.28pm Payment  of £5,000 attempted to payee  one but flagged up as unusual
12.37pm internet banking times out due to inactivity
12.43pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
12.44pm Payment  of £5,000 to payee one shows as delayed
12.46pm Phone call from Mrs C to Bank of Scotland 10 minutes and 47 seconds. The call
recording has been provided to me.
12.57pm Payment  of £5,000 to payee one approved on the phone
payment five - £5,000
Mrs C made  this payment  online. She had to set up a new payee. No further checks were 
made.
These are the steps Mrs C took:
12.57pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
13.03pm Mrs C transfers £11,000 from her ISA savings account into the joint current 
account
13.04pm Mrs C sets up a new payee- payee four
Ref: DRN2929528413.08pm automated phone call from the bank  to Mrs Cs landline  to complete new payee set 
up
13.10pm Payment  of £5,000 made to payee  four
13.11pm Mrs C logs off
payment six - £3,000
Mrs C made  this payment  online. She had to set up a new payee. No further checks were 
made.
13.12pm Mrs C logged into her online banking
13.13pm Mrs C sets up a new payee- payee five
13.16pm automated phone call from the bank  to Mrs Cs landline  to complete new payee set 
up
13.20pm Payment  of £3,000 made to payee  five
13.20pm Mrs C logs off
payment seven - £5,000 to Mr Cs account
The bank didnt  provide a detailed breakdown  of the steps to make this payment, which
was transferred to Mr Cs account  and then onto the scammer from there. I initially  thought 
Bank of Scotland had refunded this payment directly to Mr C.
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint
After Mr and Mrs C obtained  a crime reference number, they complained  to the bank. They
explained they had been careful with their money all their working life and now their hard-
earned savings  had gone in a flash. They explained theyd had to borrow  money from their
family to cover  their outgoings and felt there  should be better  safeguards in place to protect
people when  using  online banking.
Bank of Scotland said it wouldnt be able to refund Mr and Mrs C for the money thats  been
lost because there hadnt been any bank error. It said Mrs C willingly transferred the money
and followed  the steps required to authorise the payments. It pointed out its staff asked
Mrs C very specific questions about two of the payments when  they spoke on the phone  and
she gave highly  plausible  answers about  why she was moving  the money.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and referred  their complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on 24 January 2020. 
In that decision  I acknowledged  that when considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I remain  of the 
view that these considerations are the relevant ones. Ive set them out below:
relevant considerations
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Ref: DRN29295285Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).  
Regulated firms like Bank  of Scotland are also required to conduct  their business 
with due skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers (Principle  6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.   
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  I made the following 
findings:
Both sides accept the call Mrs C received was made  by someone impersonating a member
of bank staff. She was convinced by the call she received and its clear that shes  been  the
victim of a cruel and sophisticated social engineering scam.
As Ive set out above, the very first payment Mrs C tried to make flagged  up as being
unusual, along  with the fourth payment. Looking at Mrs Cs spending in the months prior to
the scam,  she doesnt make large  transfers  of money into and out of her accounts.  She has
long established  savings accounts where  the balances remain static,  so her activity  on that
morning does stand  out as being particularly out of character for her. As such, its not
altogether surprising that some of her account  activity that day flagged  as unusual on Bank
Ref: DRN29295286of Scotlands systems.  This unusual account  activity led to Mrs C speaking  with the banks
fraud team before it processed the first and fourth payment to the scammer.
To work out whether Bank of Scotland missed opportunities to identify that Mrs C was at risk
of financial harm, I will look at each payment in turn, as well as considering the overall
sequence of the events  as they developed that day.
payment one
At 11.40am, Mrs C called the fraud team and told the call handler  that she was online
transferring £1,900 to her (other bank) account and this message came  up to phone  this
number. The call handler asked Mrs C some questions to confirm  her identity, asked how
much she was trying to send to the other account and asked where  the account holding
branch was for her other account. Mrs C confirmed she wanted to transfer  £1,900 and said
her account  holding branch was in Glasgow,  that she opened the account  years ago and she 
was just sorting out her affairs.
The call handler asked  whether Mrs C had transferred  money to this account before and
Mrs C replied oh long,  long ago, (however  I note these payee details had been added  to
the account for the first time less than an hour earlier.)
The call handler then said and when you were making this payment where did you take the
account details  from? Was it a bank card, a statement?
Mrs C replied my details for the (other bank) is, the sort code is XXXXXX, and the account
number is XXXXX.
The call handler then said ok but where are you taking these details  from?
Mrs C said thats my account number  off my card
The call handler continued:  aha but where are you taking  the details from, from your bank  
card?
Mrs C responded with Yes
The operative continues:
and is there  any reason for the payment or do you just want  to put money in that account?
Mrs C said: No, I just wanted to transfer some money into it.
I think the purpose of these questions is to give the banks  operative the opportunity  to
gather information  from its customer and weigh up whether the payment is one its customer
genuinely wants to make.
The operative goes  on to say:
So we have just stopped  the payment because it was showing as a higher risk of being
fraudulent. So its just to remind  you that once this money leaves  your account if you were
being scammed or if it did go to the wrong details  it is highly unlikely that we could get this
money back for you ok?
Ref: DRN29295287Mrs C doesnt respond.  Theres around two seconds  of silence on the line and then the 
operative continues  so are you 100% happy with the details you have  entered  for this 
payment?
Mrs C responded with: Well that was the, thats  the number on my card and I ermentered
that and thats  my account number and that was the amount I wanted to transfer  and I just
did that and erm that number  came  up to phone so I thought  I better phone it
The operative goes  on to say:
So there  is just some information that we need  to make you aware  of about some current
scamsjust so you know what to look out for going  forward, ok? (Mrs C responds Right.)
So just now we are seeing a lot of fraudsters contact customers  posing to be someone that
you would  know so they can trick you into making a payment, theyll  also call from the banks
genuine phone number so it does seem  very believable that it is the bank that is calling you
and theyll  tell you that your money isnt safe and you need to move  it to a safe account. Now
no bank would ever contact you and ask you to do anything like that and theyll  also pretend
to be your internet  provider. So can I just check that no-one has contacted  you?
Mrs C responds: No, no that number just came  up, nobody(sic) contact me.
The operative continued:
ok and what theyll also do is give customers cover stories, now as soon as someone gives
us a cover  story, we can no longer refund  any fraud so that should be a big warning sign that
youre being scammed if someone  does tell you what to say to the bank. So knowing all of
that information, are you happy to confirm that this is a genuine payment you want to make?
Mrs C responds  with Yes, aha.
The operative continues:
And are you happy for us to process that through for you?
Mrs C responds  with Yes.
The call ends at 11.44am and the payment is then made.
Having listened  carefully to everything  that both sides  said during this particular  call, I think
Bank of Scotland did just about  enough  to be satisfied this this first payment was one Mrs C
genuinely wanted to make and that she wasnt at risk of financial harm. Although Im mindful
that with hindsight Mrs Cs responses  to the questions asked were perhaps at times limited,
I dont think it would  be fair or reasonable to say Bank of Scotland ought  to have had further
concerns at the time based on what was said or the wider account activity at this point.
I say this because  Im not persuaded  there  was really anything of note in the content and
context of Mrs Cs answers that ought  fairly  and reasonably to have caused  the operative
any concern or suspicion. It is quite plausible that Mrs C could hold a bank account
elsewhere and that she wanted to move some  money into it - though  I accept this wasnt
what Mrs C was doing. Mrs C was in fact moving money into what she thought was a safe
account and she was providing  Bank of Scotland with a cover story. Bank of Scotland ought
to have been alive to the possibility that this might be the case,  and that Mrs C might be
Ref: DRN29295288providing a cover story,  but from the information Mrs C gave the bank at that time, Im
persuaded it believed Mrs C was moving £1,900 to another account that she held because
she was sorting out her affairs.
She explained shed set up this account years  ago, and when pressed by the operative she
confirmed she was taking  the account  details from her bank card.
In addition, when  the payment was made, it left around £9,000 in the account, and so Im not
persuaded the payment  in isolation matched  a typically fraudulent pattern.
Based on the circumstances of the payment and what Mrs C told the operative, I dont think
the operative had any reason to think Mrs C didnt really have a bank account  elsewhere and
the wider situation  wasnt implausible.
So Im currently minded to think that it was fair for the bank to make  the first payment of
£1,900 in accordance with the instructions  Mrs C gave. Im not currently  persuaded there
were strong enough indications at this stage that something might not be right.
payment two
Seven minutes  after the operative  approved payment one, I can see that Mrs C logged  back 
onto her online banking  account and attempted to make a payment of £6,500  to a new 
payee. Bank of Scotlands evidence shows that Mrs C received an automated call requiring 
her to confirm the new payee, and then the payment was made  15 minutes  after payment 
one had been approved.
Other than the automated  call, Ive not seen any evidence there was interaction with Bank  of
Scotland at this time.  But I think Bank of Scotland ought fairly and reasonably to have
investigated this payment  further too before  releasing these funds.
I say this because  Mrs C was setting up a second new payee within  an hour of setting up
another new payee. And this time she was attempting to transfer over three times the
amount she had to the other  new payee less than an hour earlier.  Given Bank  of Scotland
had identified the earlier, much smaller, payment as unusual, I think its surprising this
payment didnt also flag as unusual. In my view there was more  reason to investigate at this
stage given a pattern,  indicative  of fraud,  was starting to occur.
As I have outlined, the bank should  be on the look out for unusual or out of character
transactions, as they are signs  that its customer could  be at risk.
I think this was a missed opportunity to engage  in a meaningful dialogue with Mrs C about 
the emerging pattern  of activity on her accounts.  I dont  agree with Bank of Scotlands 
position that further intervention or questioning would  not have caused Mrs C to act 
differently.
I think Bank of Scotland had an opportunity to do more at this stage, and had it done so, it is
more likely than not that Mrs C would have struggled with persuasively explaining some of
the details underpinning  the cover  story  she had been given. I think  either the bank would
have identified or Mrs C would have realised she was in the process  of being scammed,
resulting in the payment  not being  made. Ill explain why later on in this decision.
payment three
Ref: DRN29295289One minute after making the second  payment  to the scammer, Mrs C logged back  onto her
online banking account and made  a third payment of £2,500 to another new payee.  Like the
second payment,  I can see that Mrs C received  an automated call from Bank of Scotland  to
confirm she was setting  up the new payee. After that, the payment went through with no
further interaction or discussion with the bank.
This third payment virtually cleared the balance  from the joint account.  In total, Mrs C had
now transferred out around £10,900  in the space of half an hour.  By this point I consider
there to be a developing situation that was different  in nature and effect  to the first payment
and added to the unusual  situation that had developed by the time Mrs C attempted to make
the second payment. Mrs C was setting up new payees in quick succession and transferring
out large sums of money. This isnt in line with the way she usually ran her accounts. A
pattern, indicative of potential fraud or financial abuse was, in my view, quite clearly
occurring at this point. I think Bank of Scotland ought to have fairly and reasonably
investigated this payment  further as well. I dont think it was fair or reasonable for the bank to
have released  the funds  without doing so. By this point, there  was an established pattern of
activity on the account  which matched a known  pattern of fraud. This was a very strong
indicator that Mrs C was at risk of financial harm and Im not persuaded that Bank of
Scotland took sufficient steps to look into what was going on.
Had it done so, I dont think Mrs C would have been able to provide  plausible and 
satisfactory responses to any enquiries made. I think, on balance, that had further questions 
been asked that were  directly relevant to the unfolding  situation, its more likely than not that 
it would  have been identified or Mrs C would  have realised she was in the process of being 
scammed.
payment four
The fourth payment  Mrs C tries to make is for £5,000. This payment refers for additional
checks. Mrs C has a conversation with another operative from Bank of Scotlands fraud
team. This conversation  happens just over an hour after Mrs C last spoke  to someone from
the bank over the phone.
Mrs C calls the bank at 12.46pm. When connected,  she opens the conversation with:
I was online earlier today and this number came  up to phone because  Id been
transferring money  to my (other bank) account  so then I was on again trying to transfer
another £5000  and that number came  up, I wondered why it just didnt go through
So right at the onset  of the call Mrs C made  the operative aware this was the second time
shed had a payment referred that day. Im mindful that around an hour earlier Mrs C had
moved £1,900  to the same account details that she was attempting  to make  this payment to.
It seems  likely that a member of bank  staff working on a telephone line that deals  with
payments that have  been flagged as unusual would be able to see recent transaction
history, but the operative did not appear  to pick up on any of the payments that had already
been made by Mrs C that day (despite  Mrs C indicating she had made  other payments at the
start of the call), nor did they explore what was by now an unusual  spending pattern any
further. From what Ive heard, the operatives  intention was to only explore this specific
payment in isolation.
The operative starts by going through some additional security questions  to find out why this
Ref: DRN292952810payment referred.  During the call, the operative  says:
So the payment has flagged up just for a few things Mrs Cso  what  Ill need  to do is go
through some information with you first and then we just have a few questions to go through,
is that ok?
(Mrs C responds Right) so it flagged  up with us as we felt it had a higher than normal
risk of being  fraudulent. So when that happens we just need to make  you aware that once
the money leaves  your account, its gone, and its unlikely that well recover  it.
(Mrs C responds Right) We also just want to make  you aware that fraudsters are
contacting customers  with convincing stories, they can be very believable, and they may
even use phone numbers,  WhatsApp,  or social media contact that you recognise.
(Mrs C responds Right.)  They may ask you to transfer money to a safe account, or gain
access to online banking  and they have already ruined the lives of many  of our customers,
so I want to help you today to make  sure they dont  do this to you.
There is then a three second  gap where  no-one  speaks. The operative continues:
As well we have found if they did, if a fraudster  did contact  you, theyd tell you not to discuss
the call with the bank but this makes it more  difficult for us to protect you from fraud. So I just
need to ask you a few questions. Its really  important that you listen carefully and answer
them truthfully. If you didnt and it did transpire that you were  a victim of fraud, we would not
be able to refund the money.
Mrs C didnt say anything  and the line was silent for three seconds. Whilst the spirit of what
the operative is trying to convey here is no doubt well intended, she has been following a
script for around a minute and it is unclear how much of that information, if any, has been
retained by Mrs C. From what Ive heard, Im not persuaded that Mrs C had fully absorbed
the information she was being given or that Mrs C would  have  recognised that information as
being especially  relevant to her, especially as she thought the scammer was a genuine
member of bank staff.
Although Mrs C did respond to the prompts in the script, I dont think  her short,  one-word
responses could  fairly be considered a meaningful or engaged conversation.
Theres no discussion with Mrs C about  the actual payment until the operative  starts asking
Mrs C questions about how shes got the details  for the other  account.
The operative asks:
Is it a new account youve opened  with (names the other bank) or is it one youve had for
a while?
Mrs C responds:
Oh its years ago.
The operative continues:
And where would you take the details from, do you have a card,  or would it be a
statement or do you do online banking  with them as well?
Ref: DRN292952811Mrs C responds:
It would be the card, I dont use that very often,  just when Im moving  money around.
The operative continues:
So just from the card youre happy that all of the details  are correct?
Before the operative  can finish the question, Mrs C starts to speak. She says:
Yes, I err, alreadymoved £1900 into (names the other bank) earlier  and that message
came up
The operative asks:
Was that into the sameaccount?
Mrs C says:
Yes, Ah ha.
The operative asks Mrs C if shed  moved  the money from her current  account into the joint
account to make these  transfers. I think this is a key opportunity for the operative to pick up
on and engage  further with, but the moment was missed. Emptying accounts very quickly
matches a known type of fraud  and indicates Mrs C was at risk. But I dont think the
operative was necessarily alive to this type of scam at the time they spoke, and I think they
ought to have been given  the prevalence of scams of this nature at the time.
Mrs C responds  with:
I have been moving money around  because I paid my solicitor £6,500 (Mrs C provides the
name of payee  two) and, erm, his sort code isand his account number isand I also put
money into my err grandsons account because err I had to pay err (names payee two)
solicitoris the solicitor because Im expecting a payment first week Monday I think of
money (operative interjects  with right, okay) from a sale of err a property so I was just err
moving money around.
The operative thanks  Mrs C and asks her how she normally  accesses her online banking
and clarifies what device  Mrs C would  normally use.
Theres over thirty seconds  of silence and then the operative says:
I just need to check as well Mrs C. has anyone asked you to move money for any reason
or told you not to tell the bank about  it? Mrs C responds with no.
The operative continues:
And over the last few months have you had any strange or unusual emails,  phone calls or
text messages from anyone? Mrs C says no.
There is then almost  a minute of silence while the operative can be heard typing. The
operative wanted to make  a note about  the payment Mrs C said she was expecting to come
Ref: DRN292952812in on Monday.
The operative said: These payments are just moving the money to theaccount, theres no
actual reason for it, its just that youre moving  money around?
Mrs C responds  with: Yes, just moving  money  around, yes.
The call continues.  Theres around twenty further  seconds of silence whilst the operative can
be heard  typing. The operative  goes on to say:
So just so I can just (sic) this block removed for you if youre happy to confirm  that you
havent been contacted,  you havent been asked to move this money from your account for
any other reason,  (Mrs C says no)  and its not likely youll get it back  once its gone.
(Mrs C says I know), youre  happy its a genuine payment? (Mrs C responds yes).
What Mrs C said when she confirmed there was no reason  for the payment and she was just
moving money around contradicts  with what Mrs C had said earlier  in the call about  moving
money to pay her solicitor  and to give money  to her grandson. The operative missed an
opportunity to highlight this potential discrepancy  and discuss  it further. The bank, with its
increased knowledge of the way fraud and scams  work,  should  be more  alive to the fact that
scammers give victims cover stories. It should  also be alive to the type of details in those
cover stories.  I recognise theres a balance to be struck and that people  can and do sell
properties and instruct solicitors. But the bank  accepted Mrs Cs answer at face value and
didnt test the legitimacy of it by probing  it any further.
The conversation was only happening at all because the payment had been identified  as 
one requiring further checks. If the bank had actively listened  to the information Mrs C gave 
and asked her basic  follow up questions around  it, such as where the property was and how
much it had sold for, I think Mrs C would have struggled to answer convincingly,  consistently
and persuasively.
I say this because  the answers Mrs C gave about  moving money around and expecting
money from the sale of a property didnt make much  sense. To my mind, it doesnt  seem
natural that a customer would explain that they had paid a solicitor  and then immediately
recite the sort code  and account  number  for the payment. Mrs Cs answer  lacks  confidence
and sounds unnatural. It comes across as though  she has been  told to say something,  or
that she is reading something  out.
I think its more likely than not that had the operative gone off script with some  simple open
questions such as the type of property that had been sold,  where the solicitor was based, or
how old her grandson was, Mrs C wouldve struggled to answer  persuasively,  particularly  as 
she was, in my view, struggling  to persuasively  answer the most basic  of questions at this 
stage.
Given the operative works on a telephone line where shes  taking calls from customers that
have had payments  referred because of concerns they might be fraudulent, and given it
seems more likely  than not the operative  could readily see all of Mrs Cs account activity that
day, I think Mrs Cs responses ought  fairly and reasonably to have caused  concern.
Mrs C was attempting to make her fourth payment in just over an hour. She previously paid
a new payee £1,900  an hour earlier and had since moved on another £5,000 to that same
account. And the funds had already been transferred from one of her other accounts held
Ref: DRN292952813with Bank  of Scotland. I think  by this stage the fact Mrs C was transferring a total of £15,900
to three  different  and new payees in the space of just over an hour ought reasonably to have
concerned the operative enough  to consider  stopping the payment altogether, even  though
Mrs C had confirmed shed not been  asked  to move the money  and not tell the bank about it.
payments five and six
Im not going  to go in too much detail about  these  payments. This is because  I think Bank of
Scotland ought fairly and reasonably to have  prevented any further  payments  to the
scammer long before  now.
But in short, I can see that Mrs C went on to make a fifth payment of £5,000  to the scammer
ten minutes after the fourth payment, and a sixth payment of £3,000  ten minutes after that.
Mrs C was required to confirm the new payees  via an automated call for both these 
payments, but otherwise there was no interaction  with Bank of Scotland,  which  I find 
surprising.
overall
Looking at what was discussed over the phone with Mrs C when she did have interaction
with bank staff, along  with the change in activity  across Mrs Cs accounts, I dont think  Bank
of Scotland has acted  fairly and reasonably in Mrs Cs case. I think  it could have done more
to prevent Mrs C from being  a victim of a scam.  From the evidence presented to me, Im
persuaded Bank of Scotland missed key opportunities to identify  a developing pattern of
spending indicative of fraud. As such, it should have done more  to challenge the authenticity
of the payments Mrs C was making.
Although Mrs C did engage with some  of the scripted dialogue around fraud and scams in
the two calls, as I have  already outlined,  her interactions werent  detailed  or compelling.
When Mrs C spoke freely, her answers  were confused and didnt make  much sense. 
In the second  call, the operative  expressly  said there was no actual  reason for Mrs C to be 
moving the money. Despite any concern the operative might have had at this time,  Im not
persuaded that she did enough to prevent Mrs C from being the ongoing  victim of a scam.
I accept the bank did deliver  a scripted warning  to Mrs C about the risks involved  when
making a payment that later turns  out to be fraudulent on two separate  occasions  that
morning. So, whilst  the bank was on the lookout for fraud generally, I dont think it went  far
enough to find out whether fraud was likely to be occurring in this particular case. It didnt
specifically alert Mrs C that the activity  on her account was typical of fraudulent activity, nor
did it explicitly warn her that it was concerned she might be the victim of a scam when I think
it ought fairly and reasonably to have  done  so.
I think this is important because at the time that the calls took place, Mrs C genuinely
thought that the scammer was the real bank. I dont think she wouldve recognised  the
warnings she was given  as being  especially relevant to her in that moment.
It is widely recognised  that scammers often provide customers with a convincing  reason to
make a payment  and that scammers  often instruct customers not to discuss  what has
happened with the bank  and to provide a cover story. And in those  circumstances as a
matter of good practice it may be appropriate to challenge the customer further.
Ive thought carefully about the exact  point the bank could have prevented  Mrs C from either
Ref: DRN292952814being a victim of a scam or continuing  to be a victim of a scam. I consider Bank of Scotland
missed clear  opportunities to identify and help prevent these unusual and out of character
transactions, leaving Mrs C open  to the risk of financial  harm.
The bank recognised Mrs C was potentially at risk by referring the first payment. It was out of
character with Mrs Cs usual and well-established  patterns of spending. But I think the
conversation the bank  had with Mrs C about  the first payment was sufficient, in the individual
circumstances of this complaint, for it to follow  her instructions and make the payment.
From what  had been said and the context of the situation as it was at that point, in my view
there wasnt much to arouse suspicion or to indicate that things  were  amiss. The payment
was, as far as the bank was told, to another one of Mrs Cs accounts. It still left a significant
balance in the account and there  was no specific reason to indicate Mrs C didnt have
accounts with another  bank too. This is why I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me
to say that Bank of Scotland should refund  Mrs C for the £1,900  which was sadly lost.
But this was an emerging sequence of events. The landscape surrounding the payments
started to look very different and very quickly.
As a result, Im currently minded to think it would be fair and reasonable, in the particular
circumstances of this complaint, to say that Bank  of Scotland  ought to have done more  to
help Mrs C than it did for the payments that followed. As the bank had legitimate concerns
around the first payment,  it is unclear why those  concerns didnt extend to the second  and
third payments, especially as they were higher value payments and to other new payees.
My exploration of the conversation that took place before the fourth payment was made
indicates that the banks  efforts  were not tailored  and responsive to the situation that was
unfolding, and as such, when looking at everything  together, were insufficient to mitigate  the
risk that Mrs C was falling prey to a financial crime.
For the reasons  Ive already outlined,  the bank shouldve been alerted to the fact things  were
not quite right as the situation  developed and by the time Mrs C attempted to make the
second payment.  Had the bank have done  more, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs C
would not have gone on to make the second and subsequent payments.
Had the bank  made  contact with Mrs C when she attempted to make the second payment,
I think its more likely than not that conversation - or at least  the lack of confidence and
plausibility of what Mrs C said - wouldve roughly reflected the conversation  that took place
when Mrs C attempted to make the fourth payment. I say this because Im of the opinion  that
much of what was said by the operative  during the calls was scripted.  I think  Mrs Cs cover
story of making payment  to her grandson and/or a solicitor wouldve been  similar too  and
what she said about this, as Ive explained,  ought to have raised suspicion and concern with
the operative.
When Mrs C attempted  to say any more  about  the payments she was making her answers
were confusing and lacked confidence   and so I think  that had the operative asked further
tailored questions, along the lines of those Ive set out in this decision, Im persuaded Mrs C
would have struggled to say anything plausible and her answers wouldve become more
confused. As a result, its quite possible the spell Mrs C was under wouldve been broken,
even with the fraudster listening in on the conversation. And if it hadnt, and Mrs C continued
to confusingly add to her cover stories, I think the operative ought to have had such
concerns at this point  that they shouldnt have processed the payment. Had this been  the
case, Im not persuaded Mrs C wouldve gone on and transferred any more  of her money to
Ref: DRN292952815the fraudster.
impact on Mr and Mrs C
Finally, Ive considered  whether Bank of Scotland should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation
for the distress and inconvenience theyve experienced  as a result of the banks actions.
Being targeted by a scammer and being  a victim of a crime is undoubtedly going to have a
lasting impact on Mr and Mrs C. Mrs C told me shes wary of answering  the phone  now and
that these events have left her unable to sleep.  Mr and Mrs C are retired  and unable to earn
the money thats been lost again. The loss of their life savings and the plans  they had made
for that money is devastating  for them and their family. But Im not able to award
compensation that flows specifically from the actions of the scammer.
Having said that, I am persuaded  the banks failure  to act and to prevent financial harm has
had a lasting impact on the couple, particularly on Mrs C. If Bank of Scotland had done  what
it ought to have done, it would have intervened to stop the financial losses  Mr and Mrs C
experienced much sooner, meaning  the overall impact of this crime would have been
lessened. Mrs C told me they had to borrow money from their children to be able to pay bills,
which was something  that they wouldnt have otherwise needed  to do. These incoming
payments from family members can be seen on Mr and Mrs Cs bank statements. Mrs C
explained she was worried the utilities supplied to their home  would be cut off if their regular
direct debit payments  failed. So I think Bank  of Scotland should pay Mr and Mrs C £350 in
compensation to acknowledge  the uncertainty and worry that its failings has caused  them.
responses to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs C received  my provisional  decision and confirmed they had nothing further to 
add.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree that it should  be asked to cover  the funds lost under the first 
four payments.  Ive summarised  its key points below:
The bank  welcomed  my view that it would not be fair and reasonable to have  had 
further concerns  about the first payment at the time it was made.
The bank  pointed  out a fair outcome hinges  on the specific point in the chain of 
payments where the bank should  have taken steps and/or provided an effective 
warning which might have stopped the scam. It initially felt this point was reached 
from the seventh payment onwards. But after considering my provisional decision, 
it thought it perhaps could  and should have reached this point from the fifth payment 
onwards.
It said the second and third payments  only look unusual with hindsight. It felt it was 
not unreasonable to not refer payments  two and three as they were made 
immediately following active questioning around the first transaction. 
The bank  felt the call before payment one was made provides context for payments 
two and three. It said that as the first payment was checked and clear information 
provided about fraudulent behaviour, it lowered the risk associated  with further 
payments. 
Ref: DRN292952816It suggested that the fourth payment referred  for additional checks because  the 
activity was identified  as potentially high risk and was now a pattern. It suggested 
things Id noted as being missed by the colleague in the call was with the benefit of 
hindsight and not necessarily as clear  as it would have been in the moment. It said 
Mrs C clearly ignored the warnings she was provided. It felt a layperson would 
question why payments are being  referred if it was the bank asking them to move 
funds. It thought Mrs C should  take some responsibility for her actions after being 
clearly advised by the bank it would not ask her to move funds. 
The bank  pointed  out payment seven (a £5,000  transfer to Mr Cs account) had not 
been refunded.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that this decision should be upheld in part, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which I have reproduced  above, and which  now forms part of this final 
decision. 
Whilst I am pleased to see the bank now agrees it should have refunded  from the fifth 
payment onwards, Im not persuaded by its reasons as to why it would not be fair and 
reasonable in this case to refund payments  two, three and four.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the reasons why I considered payments two and three 
were different in nature and effect  to the first payment.  I explained that payment two was for 
three times as much money  as the first payment  and to a new payee.  In addition to this, 
payment three was to another new payee  and the account balance of almost  £11,000 had 
virtually been cleared  in under an hour.  This is very different to the way Mr and Mrs Cs 
account usually  ran in the months  leading  up to the scam. 
Im not persuaded it would be fair to say payments two and three were of a lower risk 
because Mrs C had been questioned about  the first, much smaller  payment. Instead I think a 
pattern, indicative of fraud, was starting to occur and there were  clear signs Mrs C could be 
at risk of harm. I remain of the opinion, on balance, that had further questions  been asked 
that were directly relevant to the unfolding  situation,  its more likely than not that it would 
have been identified or Mrs C would have  realised she was in the process of being 
scammed.
The banks fraud systems  did identify  payment  four as being a higher risk. Bank of Scotland  
thinks Mrs C should take some responsibility  for her actions as she was clearly  given 
warnings during that call and told the bank would not ask her to move funds. But I dont 
agree. At the time Mrs C spoke to the operative about payment four, she was under the 
spell of a sophisticated and cruel scam. Mrs C told me the scammer said she might need to 
speak to another department in the bank to approve payments and hed instructed her to say 
yes, even if the bank  warned her not to. Mrs C has explained why she found the scammer to 
be compelling and persuasive. The bank has more  knowledge and experience of what  
scams look and feel like. I still think it should  have engaged with the answers Mrs C gave in 
this call in a more  tailored  and responsive way, mindful that she could be under the spell of 
a fraudster. As I indicated  in my provisional  decision,  I dont  think  Mrs Cs short,  one-word 
responses could  fairly be considered a meaningful or engaged conversation. 
Ref: DRN292952817Im not persuaded by the further  comments Bank of Scotland has made. From  the evidence  
presented to me, I remain  persuaded Bank  of Scotland missed key opportunities to identify a 
developing pattern of spending indicative of fraud.  For the reasons I have already explained, 
I still think it should have  done more than it did to challenge the authenticity  of the payments 
Mrs C was making. If the bank had done  more, I still think its more  likely than not that she 
would not have gone on to make the second and subsequent payments. It follows  that the 
fair and reasonable resolution  to this case is for Bank of Scotland  to refund payments two to 
seven. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Bank of Scotland Plc in 
part. 
For the reasons  I have  explained, Ive found that Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to 
refund the first payment  Mrs C made to the scammer. 
But I require  Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
Refund payments  two to seven that left Mr and Mrs Cs joint account totalling 
£26,999.43 (this takes into account the £0.57 that was recovered)
For the money that originated from Mr and Mrs Cs joint current  account and Mrs Cs 
sole current account, Bank of Scotland Plc should pay simple interest at 8% a year 
from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.  
For the money that originated in Mrs Cs ISA account, Bank of Scotland Plc should 
pay interest on that amount at the account interest  rate, from the date of the payment 
to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience the banks
actions caused  them.
If Bank  of Scotland Plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award,  it should 
provide Mr and Mrs C with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 March 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2929528