K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
unreasonably declined a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy.  
background
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs J made a claim on their legal expenses insurance  policy. Mr J said 
two enforcement agents had entered their home unlawfully and without  notice, in relation to 
a debt that belonged  to someone  else. He said the agents caused damage,  and extracted 
funds from his wife through intimidation.  As a consequence he and Mrs J wanted to bring a 
claim against the agents and recover the funds theyd paid them.  
LV agreed to consider  the claim. It asked a firm of solicitors on its panel to assess whether it 
was proportionate to pursue, and had reasonable prospects of success, which  were  both 
requirements of Mr and Mrs Js policy.  
In early 2019, the panel firm said that the claim for recovery of the funds wouldnt fall under 
any of the sections of cover in Mr and Mrs Js policy. She also said that whilst Mr and Mrs J 
did have cover for damage to their home, the aspects of their claim that related to this didnt 
have reasonable prospect of success. 
In addition she noted that Mr and Mrs J had cover  for interference with their use, enjoyment 
or right over their home.  But she advised that any claim  in trespass  that fell under this would 
likely cost LV more to pursue in costs  than Mr and Mrs J stood to gain in damages, which  
was a situation also excluded by the policy. LV relied on this advice and declined Mr and Mrs 
Js claim accordingly. 
Mr and Mrs J werent  happy with this. They asked LV to pay the cost of a solicitor of their 
choice to review things afresh. But LV said it was up to Mr and Mrs J to provide their own 
legal opinion  from a comparable lawyer, at their own expense,  if they wanted to challenge  
the opinion of the panel firm.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Js complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt the claim 
had been reviewed in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js policy, and that LV 
was entitled to rely on the opinion of the panel firm to decline it. Mr J disagreed  and has 
requested an ombudsmans decision. He feels he and Mrs J are entitled to ask LV to fund a 
second opinion  from a lawyer of their choice. Hes cited  one of our earlier decisions in 
support of this. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and 
Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.  
The starting point  is the policy terms. The contract  disputes section of Mr and Mrs Js policy 
covers them  for pursuing a claim directly resulting from a breach of their contract to buy or 
hire goods  or services  for their private  use. But Mr and Mrs Js claim is that the enforcement 
agents attended their home in relation to a contract they werent  party to. So I dont think  
their claim arises  or is covered under this section  of the policy.  
Ref: DRN26811302Under the protection of property section of Mr and Mrs Js policy, they have  cover  for 
pursuing a claim relating  to damage to their home. They also have cover for pursuing a claim 
relating to the interference with their use, enjoyment  or right over their home. Mr and Mrs J 
say that the enforcement agents  entered their home without notice or permission, and 
caused physical  damage.  So I think both of these sections of cover do apply to their claims.  
But thats subject  to the remaining terms of the policy.
This policy, like virtually  all legal expenses  insurance policies, requires a policyholders claim 
to have reasonable prospect of success,  and be proportionate to pursue. We dont think 
thats unreasonable. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer  wouldnt 
want to bear the cost if advised theyre  unlikely to succeed or that theyll incur more in costs 
than theyre likely to get back  in damages. We take the view that an insurer cant be 
expected to either. 
Where an insurer hasnt  agreed to provide funding in such  a case,  it isnt for us to carry out 
our own review of the merits  of the underlying claim. My role is to look at whether the insurer  
has acted fairly. So long as it has got advice from suitably qualified  lawyers, we wont 
generally question  its reliance on that advice, unless we think  it was obviously wrong or 
based on mistakes of fact. 
In this case, a Trainee  Solicitor  reviewed  Mr and Mrs Js claim and provided her advice 
under the supervision of a Partner  with relevant experience in property litigation. The Trainee 
Solicitors advice has also been  reviewed by an Associate Solicitor in the firms customer 
service and compliance department.  And  theres  nothing that makes me think there  was 
anything obviously wrong with the advice  or that it was based  on any factual errors. Mr J did 
clarify that the enforcement agents  attended  more  than once,  but this has since  been 
addressed by the Associate Solicitor in the firms customer service and compliance 
department, who confirmed it wouldnt have altered the original advice. So overall, Im 
satisfied that LV was entitled to rely on the advice they received.
Mr J says hes entitled to choose his own legal  representatives, and has highlighted a 
previous a decision from our service  in support of this. Because  of this he thinks LV should 
pay for another solicitor to review  the claim afresh.  
Policyholders do have  freedom to choose  their own legal representatives in certain 
circumstances. Generally, this freedom  arises once proceedings  are necessary, or if the 
representative instructed  by the insurer cant act due to a conflict of interest. The freedom to 
choose might also arise if there are exceptional  circumstances such  as where a claim is so 
complex or sensitive that its best suited  to a specialist law firm. But none of those 
circumstances apply  here. And even if they did, I wouldnt expect LV to fund such 
representation until Mr and Mrs J can show their claim has reasonable prospects of success. 
Until that happens,  LV isnt obliged to fund any legal  costs. 
LV has confirmed that if Mr and Mrs J can obtain  a more favourable opinion from another  
lawyer it will reconsider  their claim. I think thats fair. Mr and Mrs J should  note however that 
the cost of obtaining that opinion isnt necessarily  something wed expect LV to reimburse, 
even if it is favourable to them.  
Ref: DRN26811303my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Liverpool 
Victoria Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681130