K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham  & Gloucester  at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr C and Mrs C bought  the PPI at a meeting in 2003 at the same  time as taking a mortgage. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr C for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay Mr C and Mrs Cs monthly 
mortgage payment  (around £354 at the time of the mortgage  offer) plus £3 for every £1000  
of the initial  mortgage amount (£204). Lloyds says the monthly policy  premium was £34.
The mortgage application form says Mr C was employed at the time as an engineer and had 
been there for around  five years.  He has told us he cant recall whether  he wouldve received 
work sick pay or redundancy pay. His length of service  makes me think he was entitled  to 
statutory pay for sickness  and redundancy. Mrs C was employed at the time in catering with 
earnings around a third of Mr Cs. Aside  from their work pay and benefits, Mr C and Mrs C 
have said they didnt have any other means with which to pay their mortgage if they couldnt 
work. From what Mr C has told us, he was in good health at the time of the sale.
Lloyds has sent us evidence showing that there  was further advance on the mortgage in 
2005 and that the mortgage account was closed in 2006.
Mr C and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr C and Mrs Cs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr C and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mr C and Mrs 
C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr C and Mrs C and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN23522222The information Mr C and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr C and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr C and Mrs Cs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr C and Mrs C arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending 
became regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole mortgage  becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN23522223The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of 
Mr C and Mrs Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr C and Mrs C with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr C and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr C and Mrs Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN23522224Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and Mrs C 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr C and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr C and Mrs C have said they had no 
interest in PPI and it was just added as part of their mortgage package. But their mortgage 
application form had boxes to tick to say either  I wish to apply for or I do not wish to take 
the PPI. So it looks  like the PPI was presented as something Mr C and Mrs C had a choice 
about taking. On Mr C and Mrs Cs form, which they signed to apply  for the mortgage,  the 
box to take the PPI was ticked  and I think they wouldve known the other  box could be 
ticked instead if they didnt want the PPI. 
Also Mr C and Mrs C signed  a separate PPI application form to take the cover.  The use of a 
separate application form, requiring  a separate signature,  I think  wouldve tended to indicate 
that the PPI was something separate from, rather than an automatic part of, the mortgage.
With all this in mind, Im not persuaded  by what Mr C and Mrs C have said about the PPI not 
being mentioned during the discussion. Taking  everything into account,  I think its more  likely 
Mr C and Mrs C knew the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr C and Mrs C say it didnt. But if Lloyds did 
give advice, it had to do more. With this in mind,  I think its fair to proceed on the basis that 
Lloyds gave advice.  This means Lloyds had to advise  Mr C and Mrs C with reasonable care 
and skill, in particular  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, but the documentary evidence  
suggests Lloyds  took some  steps to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr C and Mrs C. The adviser  had information  about some of their 
financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application  for example their salaries and 
length of service. 
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable and establish Mr C and 
Mrs C had a need  for it. For example, Ive nothing to show  that Lloyds asked Mr C what  
redundancy or sickness benefits his employer  provided.
The declaration signed by Mr C and Mrs C on the PPI application,  asked that they confirm 
they were working  at least 16 hours  per week, had been working for at least six months  and 
werent aware of any impending unemployment  or hospitalisation or receiving treatment for 
conditions of a persistent  or recurring nature. But I cant see that Lloyds established that all 
these points applied  to Mr C before  giving Mr C and Mrs C the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr C and Mrs C given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
Ref: DRN23522225While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr C and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr C met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr C and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  Mr C was the main  earner  at the time and it 
seems likely Mr C and Mrs Cs finances and ability  to continue to meet their mortgage  
payments wouldve  been put under strain if Mr C lost his income  even allowing for his 
entitlement to statutory  sick pay and statutory redundancy pay. Also Mr C and Mrs C 
didnt have any savings they could fall back on.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr C and Mrs C. 
There was nothing  about Mr Cs employment  or occupation which wouldve made it 
difficult for them to claim.  And they havent  told us of any pre-existing medical conditions 
Mr C had at the time that couldve affected their ability to claim. There  were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including: the any similar gainful  
occupation condition,  the fact no benefit was payable for the first 60 days  of disability or 
unemployment and the fact the PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months 
for each claim). But the PPI still provided valuable  cover  given Mr C and Mrs Cs 
circumstances, the substantial loss of income  theyd  suffer if Mr C couldnt work because 
of disability or unemployment, the fact the PPI protected mortgage repayments relating 
to Mr C and Mrs Cs home and the potential  consequences  should Mr C and Mrs C be 
unable to make the payments on loans secured against their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr C and Mrs C sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr C and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the PPI was intended to cover (that is, that it would  protect  the mortgage payments if 
Mr C were unable to work due to accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mr C and Mrs C wouldve 
taken the PPI policy without any sense of what it was for and of how much the cost might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr C and Mrs C agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C and Mrs C Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr C and Mrs C all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN23522226Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr C and Mrs Cs representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr C and 
Mrs Cs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr C and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value 
 and the fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr C and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr C and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr C and Mrs C? To what extent did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it shouldve  done  when it sold this PPI to Mr C and Mrs C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr C and Mrs C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr C and Mrs C have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Lloyds had explained things 
properly, Mr C and Mrs C would have acted  differently, or whether they would have taken  
the policy in any event.
Mr C and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN23522227The evidence in this case suggests Mr C and Mrs C had some interest in taking PPI. By this 
I mean  when Lloyds offered them the PPI or advised  them  there was a suitable product they 
could buy that would  protect  their mortgage  payments  in the event  Mr C was unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr C and Mrs Cs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr C and Mrs C the exact premium  at the point they applied for 
the policy. But I consider it more  likely  than not they knew  they would have to pay something 
for the PPI and were aware of the approximate  cost. If the PPI cost when they came to pay it 
had been significantly  at odds with their expectations at the sale,  its possible they mightve 
raised this with Lloyds  or reconsidered  their decision instead of paying  it for a number of 
years. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr C and Mrs C would have found  the cost unacceptable if 
they had been given  the exact  figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr C and Mrs C would get for 
a successful claim. But I think its likely they expected, if they werent  also told, that the PPI 
would pay an amount sufficient to meet  their monthly mortgage payment. So I think their 
expectations about what the PPI would pay werent significantly different to what  it actually 
would pay. What it would pay was, if anything, more than they are likely to have expected, 
as there  was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability due to any pre-existing health  issue  (an issue 
Mr C knew or ought to have known  about at the policy start or for which in the 12 months 
before the policy start hed seen, arranged  to see or received treatment from a doctor)  
occurring or re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited and in some situations  excluded unemployment  if Mr C wasnt a 
permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr C not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;  and
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment,  and the policy 
protected payments for up to 12 months rather than the remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr C and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C and Mrs C from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr C and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to Mr C 
and Mrs C should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  
to suggest Mr C wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have 
Ref: DRN23522228any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I think  
Mr C and Mrs C still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think it unlikely Mr C and 
Mrs C would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policy without first providing  
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr C and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr C were not only unable  
to do his own job but also unable to do any similar  job the insurer  thought he was or might 
reasonably become qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability,  it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what to do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for 
thought  although its possible they may not have been overly concerned given  that if Mr C 
was unable (through disability) to do his own job, the chances that he would be able to take 
up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr C and Mrs C the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
wouldnt be covered   and may not have  told them  any claim would be limited to a 12 month 
period. All this may have  differed from what Mr C and Mrs C expected and mightve hoped 
for. But given their limited  other means  and the substantial loss of income Mr C and Mrs C 
would suffer if Mr C were too sick to work or made redundant,  I consider it likely they would 
still have thought a policy that after 60 days paid the mortgage  payments for up to 12 
months, would  be of benefit  to them and would help them manage the consequences if Mr C 
couldnt work in the circumstances covered by the policy. The policy  allowed multiple claims 
to be made  and could  help reduce Mr C and Mrs Cs outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  
time, helping  to make it less likely  their home  would be put at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr C and Mrs C would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences if Mr C were made redundant,  or unable to work  through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr C and Mrs C 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr C and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr C and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN23522229Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  Mr C and Mrs Cs 
circumstances, as detailed above, into account,  I consider it reasonable to conclude  the 
position they found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr C and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the PPI. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken it, Im satisfied that, of 
the two possibilities, its more likely than not Mr C and Mrs C would still have taken the PPI if 
theyd been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about what they were  buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude  
Lloyds should  pay Mr C and Mrs C compensation, as that would put them  in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr C and Mrs C think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr C and Mrs C, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr C and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  
take if it were to find Lloyds negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mr C and Mrs C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C and Mrs C in a better position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Ref: DRN235222210Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2352222