K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) wrongly defaulted the account he holds with them  and 
that theyve failed to remove  this default as they said they would in a letter of 23 March  2018.
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 27 June 2019. Ive attached a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions. Mr K accepted my provisional decision and 
had nothing further to add. 
TSB didnt  accept my decision. They made  a number  of submissions reiterating a number of 
points from earlier correspondence  with the investigator.  TSB also asked me to review  a 
previous case in which they said there were exactly the same issues  and in which our 
investigator upheld  their decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
Ive looked at the previous  case TSB referred me to. I dont agree with their analysis. In the 
previous case,  although the facts  were the same, the issue was TSB had agreed to remove  
the default, it hadnt yet happened and the investigators view was that it was taking a normal  
amount of time to action.  In the view he suggested,  if the default hadnt  been removed by a 
certain time,  Mr K contact him. This case was opened when,  after some chasing  by the 
investigator - prompted by Mr K - TSB changed their position and were no longer prepared 
to remove the default . So the investigator  then looked at whether the default shouldve been  
applied in the first place.  
The other representations from TSB reiterate a number of points theyve made earlier  in 
correspondence with the investigator. Those are matters I considered and dealt with in my 
provisional decision. So, although Ive considered  everything theyve said,  I dont feel TSB 
have sent any new evidence which changes my conclusions. So, I dont see any reason to 
alter my view.
Ref: DRN23453872my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. TSB Bank  plc should now
 
 Remove the default  recorded for this account on 22 March 2017 from Mr Ks 
files with credit reference agencies
 Repay to their collections agency the charges and interest  on this account of 
£53.16 which  occurred on or after 3 May 2016
 Pay Mr K £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience 
this has caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23453873Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr K complains TSB Bank plc wrongly defaulted the account he holds with them  and that theyve 
failed to remove this default as they said they would in a letter of 23 March  2018.
background
In October 2018 Mr K complained to us that TSB hadnt removed a default from his credit record as 
theyd promised  to in the letter of 23 March  2018 sent in final response to the complaint hed raised 
online on 20 March 2018.  In that letter - whilst TSB didnt think theyd made  an error - they agreed to 
remove the default from Mr Ks credit  file and said theyd arrange  for the balance of £131.43 to be 
paid to the debt recovery agency.
On 16 November  2018  TSB told us, after sending  that letter, theyd decided  not to remove the default  
as they thought  Mr K primarily went overdrawn with his own spending. On that basis Mr K brought a 
further complaint  to look at whether the default was applied correctly in the first place  as the original  
complaint hadnt looked at this. And also to look at the change in TSBs position  and the customer  
service Mr K had received  resulting from all that had occurred since the final response on 23 March 
2018.
TSB said due to transactions Mr K made using his debit card and direct debits (DD) hed authorised 
the account became overdrawn by £94.95 on 3 May 2016. And after this further DDs were presented 
and returned unpaid resulting in a £10 charge along with the £6 monthly overdraft  usage fee. TSB 
said after three  months although six further DDs were  returned unpaid only one £10 fee had been 
charged instead of six. TSB thought the debt wasnt solely made  up of charges therefore  theyd 
correctly reported the account to the Credit  Reference Agency (CRA) as a defaulted account and 
wouldnt look to remove the default as there  was no bank error.
Our investigator thought the statements showed TSB initially stating  the balance  was made up 
predominantly of charges was incorrect. So he agreed the default  shouldnt be removed as it had 
been correctly reported  to the credit  reference agencies as a true and accurate reflection of the 
account. But the investigator felt the service TSB provided to Mr K had fallen well below what would 
reasonably be expected. He thought  Mr K had been  given incorrect  information about the accrual  of 
the outstanding balance and the removal of the default.  And that information  in turn had been passed 
onto this service which resulted in Mr K having to make this further complaint. So he thought  TSB 
should pay Mr K £250 for the trouble  caused. And, in line with what  TSB has previously told Mr K, if 
the balance of £131.43  hadnt been cleared by TSB it should now be. And Mr Ks credit file should  be 
marked to show no balance outstanding even though the default would remain.
Both Mr K and TSB disagreed with the view and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. TSB repeated 
earlier arguments as to why the default should remain. They also said they hadnt cleared the balance 
as there was no bank error and additionally they didnt think it was appropriate to pay £250 
compensation to Mr K in this case.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. For reasons Ill explain below, I take a different view on this 
complaint and what TSB need to do to put things right. So Im issuing a provisional decision to give 
both parties  the opportunity  to respond to my proposed  findings. Whilst  I dont agree  with the 
investigators conclusions I do agree with his outline  of the issues arising in this complaint, so Ill deal 
with each  in turn.
should the default be removed/was it applied  correctly in the first place?
Ref: DRN23453874Mr K thinks as he has TSBs letter of 23 March 2018 they should simply be made  to honour it and 
remove the default.  I appreciate he thinks weve not fully used our powers in this complaint. But it 
wouldnt be right for me to insist the business do something theyve now explained they think was a 
mistake. Ive reviewed all the evidence in this case to look at whether  the default  was correctly  applied 
in the first place.
The Principles for the Reporting  of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference 
Agencies published by The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is guidance intended to be the 
main source of advice for the public  on the reporting of (amongst other things)  defaults. Those 
principles provide a default may occur when an account  is three months in arrears  and normally by 
the time an account is six months. But there are exceptions.  One of which  is where the financial 
product operates  in a more  flexible way such as a current account, like here. The advice also sets out 
when a default shouldnt  be recorded and one of those situations is where  the amount  outstanding is 
made up solely of fees or charges.
Whilst the outstanding balance is made up of spending and fees and charges, the statements  Ive 
seen show the spending element taking the balance to £78.27. Thats  under  the approved  overdraft  of 
£80 which both parties  agreed Mr K was entitled to use. The items which  took Mr Ks account  over its 
agreed operating  limit overdraft were all fees and charges amounting to £53.16.  The balance over the 
agreed overdraft  which to my knowledge remained in place until the account  was closed  was all 
fees and charges. Had they not been there and the account remained within the approved overdraft 
theres nothing to suggest  a default wouldve  been sought. So looking  at the overall position, the 
ICOs guidance and Mr Ks circumstances at the time I dont  think it was right for a default to be 
applied to this account. So Im planning to ask TSB to remove it as theyd originally  agreed to do on 
23 March  2018.
I know TSB query what Mr Ks told us about his circumstances at the time. But, looking at everything 
before me, Ive no reason to doubt what hes told us about being  on remand for two periods during 
this time.
the change in TSBs position  and the customer service Mr K received resulting from all that has 
occurred since the final response  on 23 March 2018
TSB are entitled to change their position but, if the do, its only right the account  holder is made  aware 
of that change as soon a practicable. Its not clear at what point after 23 March  2018 TSB changed  
their mind about removing the default. Whilst it would be helpful to know this - as far as I can see - 
TSB first notified this service and Mr K of the change on 16 November 2018.  TSB say theyd made  Mr 
K aware of this but, on the evidence currently before me, Im not persuaded thats the case. TSB have 
sent no evidence of this being communicated to Mr K. And its consistently been Mr Ks position when  
contacting this service for help that hed heard nothing from the bank but on checking his credit file 
the default  remained.
So, like the investigator, I think Mr K has been given  incorrect information. And it seems to me there 
have been unexplained  and significant delays  in TSB making their change  of position  information  
known to Mr K. Mr K has told us he has found this situation stressful and its clear hes been 
inconvenienced by regularly checking his credit file for something  that we now know wasnt going  to 
happen. And hes had further inconvenience by having to bring another complaint to this service. Im 
currently of the view that a payment of £250  compensation to Mr K from TSB is a reasonable  
response for the distress and inconvenience here.
In respect of the outstanding balance  now with a debt recovery agency I think  its reasonable  to 
expect Mr K to repay the proportion of that which relates to his spending - £78.27.  And for him to 
repay that at his earliest opportunity. The remaining balance is made up of fees and charges.  Whilst  
Id generally agree those charges are valid I think  theres  an exception for the £10 charge  on 3 May 
2016 which on statements  is referred  to as debit of ancillary charges for £10 and differently on 
TSBs complaint resolution form as returned  DD fee. As far as I can see theres no DD returned or 
otherwise to which that deduction can relate. But either way, from everything Ive currently seen I 
Ref: DRN23453875think its reasonable  for TSB to take responsibility for discharging the part of the balance  made  up of 
fees and charges totalling  £53.16.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties by the date below  Im planning  to ask TSB Bank plc to
 
Remove the default recorded for this account  on 22 March 2017 from Mr Ks files with credit  
reference agencies
Repay to their collections agency the charges and interest on this account of £53.16 which 
occurred on or after 3 May 2016
Pay Mr K £250 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience this has caused 
him.  
I now invite  Mr K and TSB Bank plc to let me have  any further comments  by 27 July 2019,  after which 
I will issue my final decision.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2345387