K822xcomplaint
Ms W complains about the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc handled  a claim under a 
home insurance policy.
background 
A household  appliance  in Ms Ws home leaked causing a significant amount of water  
damage. She made  a claim and RSA arranged for the damage to be repaired, and 
alternative accommodation for her. 
Ms W wasnt happy with the standard of repairs and found other damage  she says was 
caused by RSAs appointed contractor. A further leak was discovered after the repairs  were 
supposed to be finished and this led to more work. The parties are aware of the extent of the 
poor workmanship so I need  not go in to detail. But in summary it included  poor paint work,  
poor wallpapering, poor fitting, scuff/scrape marks and poor sealing. 
RSA accepted that the standard of repair work in Ms Ws home was poor and that she had 
suffered distress and inconvenience as a result. RSA offered Ms W £350 compensation and 
said it would  also cover the cost of putting right the snags left by its contractor.
Ms W didnt  think  the compensation was sufficient and provided RSA with a quote to rectify 
the damage of nearly £10,000. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and didnt think  the compensation was 
sufficient. She thought  a total of £750 was a fairer reflection of the distress  and 
inconvenience RSA had caused Ms W. She also though it might be appropriate for RSA to 
pay for another surveyor to inspect and quote for the outstanding repairs.  But RSA said this 
wouldnt move  things  on and so offered Ms W £2,752.12 being the amount a surveyor  had 
already identified as being  required to repair the outstanding works.
Ms W and RSA couldnt agree to settle and so the matter has been passed  to an 
ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSAs duty is to handle claims promptly and fairly  and in this case  theres no dispute that 
the standard of some  of the work was poor and as a result dealing  with the claim hasnt been 
prompt.
But the issue for me to decide is what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to put 
things right.
A surveyors report has identified a number of unresolved  issues and has costed rectification 
at £2,752.12. This is a detailed report and I find it persuasive as to the amount it is likely to 
cost to repair. I appreciate  Ms Ws quote  is far more but it is not particularly  detailed  so I find 
the surveyors costing  more persuasive as to the amount required to put the issues  right.  
Ref: DRN21566902Theres then the issue of compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  This has 
been substantial  in my view. Im satisfied the original incident in itself will have caused  a 
significant amount  of distress and inconvenience. But Im persuaded by the evidence 
presented to us that this has been exacerbated by RSAs failure to handle the claim promptly  
and fairly.  Ms W has had to make  several  contacts  with RSA to have issues  dealt with and 
this has frustrated her and meant shes had to accommodate additional visits. And then 
issues remain unresolved  and some work had to be undone. I also acknowledge that 
communications have  been strained, particularly with the contractor. Some issues,  for 
example to do with appliances, have been  outside  RSAs control and Ive taken these 
matters into account.  In all the circumstances Im satisfied £750 strikes a fair reflection of the 
impact on Ms W.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to do the following;
Pay Ms W £2,752.12  rectification costs
oAdd simple interest at 8% per annum from the date of claim to the date RSA 
issues payment
oHM Revenue & Customs  requires RSA to take off tax from this interest. RSA 
must give Ms W a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
Pay Ms W £750 compensation for distress  and inconvenience (less any amount 
already paid as compensation)
oRSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Ms W accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2156690