K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  was of an unsatisfactory quality.
background
In April 2018, Mr A was supplied with a used car through  a conditional sale agreement  with 
Moneybarn. The agreement was for £13,000  over 60 months,  with monthly  repayments  of 
£395.79. At the time,  the car was just over four years old and had done 41,863 miles. 
In November 2018, Mr A complained to Moneybarn  that the car was faulty.  He said there 
was a fault with the airbag, and a problem when  reversing  the car. Moneybarn arranged for 
an independent engineer  to inspect the car. The independent engineer said he couldnt 
replicate the reversing problem. He also said there was a fault with the airbag, but thought 
this wouldnt have been present when the car was supplied to Mr A. So Moneybarn didnt 
uphold the complaint and Mr A brought it to us for investigation.
Our investigator said, because the faults were  first reported more  than six months after Mr A 
was supplied with the car, he needed  to prove  the faults were present or developing  when 
the car was supplied.  Moneybarn had arranged for the car to be inspected. But the engineer 
didnt say the faults were there  when  the car was supplied, and Mr A hadnt provided  
anything to show they were. So the investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. He said that Moneybarn didnt carry out a formal  
investigation, and he didnt think the independent engineer did a proper  inspection.  The 
investigator explained why she didnt think Mr As comments changed  her views and said 
she could reconsider this if Mr A provided evidence of the faults being present earlier.  Mr A 
hasnt provided  any evidence and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations;  any 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what  I 
consider was good industry practice at the time.  Mr A was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement  which  means 
were able to look into complaints  about it. 
The relevant  law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  - says,  amongst other things,  that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price,  description other relevant 
circumstances. In a case  like this, this would include things like the age and mileage  at the 
time of sale;  and the vehicles history. 
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months,  its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. But, if the fault is identified after the first six 
months, then its for Mr A to prove the fault was present when  the car was supplied. So, if I 
Ref: DRN20974052thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession  of it, and this made the car not of a 
satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn  to put this right.
When Mr A took possession of the car on 21 April 2018, it was just over four years old and 
had done 41,863 miles. Id expect  to see wear and tear in a vehicle of that age and mileage. 
And I think any reasonable  person  would  expect to have to repair or replace some parts of 
the car over time.
Mr A says the faults started about  six months  later  the dashboard was showing air bag 
faulty and reverse not possible.  Hes also said the reversing  fault was intermittent and 
didnt happen  all of the time. He reported the faults to Moneybarn on 6 November 2018. 
Moneybarn arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect the car. This inspection  took 
place on 27 December 2018.
Ive seen a copy  of the independent engineers report. At the time the car had done 45,554 
miles  3,691 miles more than when  it was supplied to Mr A. After a physical and diagnostic  
inspection of the car, and after a short road test, the engineer concluded we were unable  
to fault the vehicles transmission at the time of inspection. We can confirm  there  is an airbag 
malfunction light illuminated on the dash display, requiring further attention  although in our 
opinion on the balance of probability  the conditions have had sufficient time and mileage  to 
progress and develop  since  the point of finance inception and therefore  would  not have been 
present at that time.
Im aware Mr A wasnt happy with the inspection and expected  it to be more thorough. But 
Im satisfied that, with a physical inspection, a diagnostic inspection,  and a road test; the 
engineer took appropriate  steps to identify the faults  with the car. And I cant say the 
inspection wasnt appropriate  just because it didnt identify a fault Mr A says was present.
The report  also made it clear that the engineers duty is that of an expert to help the court.  
So, regardless of who instructed the engineer, and who paid for the inspection,  the engineer 
is independent of either Moneybarn or Mr A. Because  of this, its reasonable for Moneybarn  
to rely on the contents of this report,  regardless of the outcome.
Mr A reported the fault to Moneybarn more  than six months after taking possession of the 
car. So its his responsibility  to show that any faults were  present when the car was supplied. 
Hes said I took it upon my self to go and get this issue looked at I have been advised it is a 
transmission fault and the cost I will pay for the car to fix I may aswell  get a new one.  But I 
havent seen a copy of this report,  nor any other report that says that either or both of the air 
bag or transmission (reversing) faults  were present or developing in April 2018.
Because of this, considering all the relevant  circumstances, Im satisfied Mr As car was of a 
satisfactory quality when supplied, So I dont think Moneybarn are responsible  for the costs 
of repairing  Mr As car; nor do I think they should take the car back and unwind the finance 
agreement. 
Ref: DRN20974053my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Moneybarn  No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2097405