K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has recorded information on his credit file 
relating to a joint mortgage he held with his ex-wife.
background
Mr M and his former wife took out a joint mortgage with Barclays  some years ago. In 2013 
they divorced  and as part of the divorce  settlement it was agreed that Mr Ms ex-wife  would 
be assigned Mr Ms share and interest  in the mortgaged property.
Mr M has provided a copy of what was agreed  at the time. The agreement  included an 
undertaking by Mr Ms ex-wife to use her best endeavours to secure the release of Mr M 
from his liabilities under  the joint mortgage  and for her to indemnify  him in respect of those 
liabilities.
Subsequently arrears  arose on the mortgage account, and Barclays  wrote to Mr M 
explaining the possible consequences. At the start of 2018, the mortgage reached the end of 
its term, and Barclays wrote  to Mr M about the repayment of the outstanding balance saying 
a delay in resolving this could  affect  his ability to obtain future credit and that it may pass  on 
information about this to credit reference agencies.
Mr M called Barclays  stating he didnt consider he had any further responsibility for the 
mortgage, through the agreement hed reached with his ex-wife during their divorce. He was 
asked by Barclays to send evidence of the agreement. He wrote to Barclays with this 
information in April 2018 and wrote again  in August 2018. When  Barclays didnt respond 
accordingly, Mr M complained, saying  that Barclays should not record information about this 
mortgage on his credit file.
Barclays looked into Mr Ms complaint.  It said he shouldnt have been asked to send in the 
paperwork he did, this had been  incorrect information. It apologised for the inconvenience  
Mr M had incurred in sending this in unnecessarily. It paid him £100  compensation. But it 
said Mr M had remained  jointly and severally liable for the mortgage loan until the loan was 
ultimately repaid.  Barclays  said it was therefore  right for it to record information about the 
loan with credit agencies.
Mr M didnt  agree. He brought his case to this service for independent review. One of our 
investigators wasnt satisfied Barclays had done  enough to evidence  that it had made Mr M 
aware of the situation regarding the mortgage  loan and recommended  his complaint should  
therefore be upheld.  Barclays  has subsequently  sent in copies of correspondence it had sent 
to Mr M at his new address concerning the mortgage, and contact  records showing Mr M 
had spoken to it about the mortgage on a number of occasions since 2013. A second 
investigator reviewed the complaint again in light of this additional information, and thought  
Barclays was justified  in its actions.
She explained that the divorce  settlement between Mr M and his ex-wife could not have the 
effect of removing the obligations Mr M had to Barclays under the mortgage agreement.  She 
thought Barclays  had taken sufficient steps  to make  Mr M aware  of the status of the 
mortgage, and the potential impact  this would have on him personally,  including  the 
reporting of information to credit  agencies. 
Ref: DRN26039772Overall, our investigator sympathised with Mr M but didnt  find Barclays needed  to do 
anything more. Mr M was unhappy  with this outcome, so I have  been  asked to reach a final 
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position  and I appreciate  that he has strong  feelings  as to what  
should fairly happen. However, having carefully considered this complaint I have reached 
the same  view as our second investigator, and for much the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Mr M says that when they divorced, it was agreed that his ex-wife would be given his share 
of the property and take responsibility for paying  the mortgage debt. But thats  an 
arrangement between them  not one to which Barclays was party. In itself that agreement  
doesnt change  the fact that both remained liable to Barclays for the mortgage until the 
house was sold.  
When Mr M and his ex-wife originally took the mortgage loan out, they agreed to be jointly  
and severally liable for it. So each one of them was liable for the full amount  of the mortgage, 
and Barclays could  ask either or both of them to repay it. 
Irrespective of the agreement he had reached with his ex-wife, Mr M was still a party to the 
mortgage, and remained so until the propertys  sale.
That meant if the mortgage was unpaid, or fell into arrears, this was as much Mr Ms 
responsibility as it was his ex-wifes.  If the arrangement hed made with his ex-wife  for her to 
take responsibility for repaying the loan had been broken, then that was a matter between 
them, but it wouldnt remove Mr Ms individual  liability to Barclays  under the mortgage 
agreement hed entered into with the bank.
Having considered the copies of correspondence Barclays  has provided, Im satisfied it took 
the appropriate steps it needed to take to make Mr M aware of the repayment status of the 
mortgage loan,  and to indicate  sources  of support  if needed. 
Barclays is required to report the accurate  position  of accounts to the credit  reference 
agencies. Mr Ms mortgage was in arrears   so the reporting is accurate. Mr M was still liable 
to Barclays for the mortgage repayments.  
If Mr M would like his credit file to better reflect the circumstances behind the repayment 
history on the mortgage account, he could consider adding a notice of correction to his file - 
which lenders then can take into consideration  in relation to any credit applications in the 
future.
But as Mr M remained jointly liable to Barclays for the mortgage loan, and knew about both 
the position of the account  and the steps  he could take, I cant  fairly  require  Barclays  to 
report the matter differently. 
Ref: DRN26039773my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and I do not 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do more than it has already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2021.
Stephen Dickie
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603977