K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) to Mr R. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  Nationwide  Building sold 
Mr R the policy when  he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr R and his representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Nationwide Building made  Mr R aware that the PPI was optional  and that he 
chose to take it  although I can understand if he can no longer remember this. I can 
see on his application form that he is asked to tick to either say he wants  PPI or 
doesnt want it  and the yes box has been ticked. 
Nationwide Building didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable  for 
Mr Rs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Nationwide Building explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Nationwide Building  gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2808559