K820x#14complaint
The complaint is presented  by the trustees for the Estate of Mr M (the trustees). They  say 
Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to review and advise upon  the late Mr Ms arrangements 
for protection from inheritance tax (IHT) liability, with regards to assets held in relevant 
trusts. They seek compensation for an IHT bill levied against the trusts assets which  they 
say would have  been avoided, but for BOS failure.
background
Mr M settled  the trusts in 1996. They held investment  policies which were encashed in 2001  
and in 2002 BOS advised him and the trustees  on reinvestment of the proceeds. The advice  
report also confirms that BOS conducted  a full review of the trusts  financial circumstances at 
the time.
The trusts were set up with the trustees  as beneficiaries and with revert to settlor  
arrangements defined as follows:
The Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund  and income  thereof for the benefit of and in trust for 
 but  if the Settlor shall survive to 11 July 2003  then for the benefit  of and in trust for the 
Settlor absolutely .
Documentation for the trusts, including the description of the revert-to-settlor  arrangements, 
was signed and dated by Mr M in 1996. There is no evidence  of this arrangement being 
formally altered up to the review in 2002 or thereafter.
Within BOS review and advice report of April 2002 it said the following:
The trusts have no requirement to protect the beneficiaries on death. The trust funds are 
currently held outside the Settlors estate for Inheritance Tax purposes. 
Broadly the same message is repeated further  on in the report  and it says no further 
planning was needed with regards  to IHT.
The trusts assets duly reverted to Mr Ms estate in 2003. Unfortunately he passed  away  in 
2014 and his estate, including the relevant assets,  passed to his surviving wife. 
Unfortunately she too passed away shortly thereafter and her estate, including  what  was 
inherited from Mr M, was subject to IHT  which is the basis  of the trustees claim for 
compensation. 
The trustees say the advice report  in 2002  clearly  and erroneously omitted to give advice 
about the trusts assets returning to Mr Ms estate in the following year. They  say its 
erroneous advice that no protection was required in this respect was relied upon thereafter 
and that the error remained unknown until the IHT liability arose.  The trustees assert  that this 
is the root cause  of that liability, because  if Mr M was advised in 2002 that the assets would 
return into his estate  in the following year IHT planning and protection arrangements  would 
have been considered and made  at or around the time. They say this would have avoided  
the passing of the assets to Mr Ms wife in 2014  and would  have avoided  inclusion of the 
assets in terms of IHT liability for her estate.
BOS disagrees and disputes  the complaint. It says responsibility for its advice in 2002 is 
limited only to Mr M, the trustees and the effect  of its advice on his estate,  and that the IHT 
Ref: DRN27404072related loss claimed by the trustees arose from Mr Ms wifes estate. It also argues that Mr M 
intentionally made the revert-to-settlor arrangements in 1996, so it was always  his intention 
that the trusts assets would return to his estate in 2003 as they did.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and concluded that the complaint  should not 
be upheld. She noted  BOS failure, in 2002,  to properly identify that the trusts assets were 
due to revert to Mr Ms estate in the following year. However, she referred to wider  evidence 
which persuaded her that Mr M knew and intended that the assets  would not stay outside  his 
estate indefinitely. She concluded that it would not be fair to uphold  the complaint against  
BOS for not telling Mr M, in 2002, what he probably  already knew.
The trustees disagreed  with this outcome. In the main, they said the following:
What Mr M knew about and intended for the revert-to-settlor arrangements  in 1996 is 
irrelevant. There is evidence from his financial advisor  between  2009 and 2014  
which says he always believed that the trusts assets were outside his estate.
In addition, there is sufficient evidence to show that Mr M was unaware and 
unmindful of the 1996 arrangements in 2002. BOS advice report shows  that it was 
not discussed with him, because it wrongly  considered that there was no IHT 
protection requirement. 
The invitation, within the report, to correct any errors in the description  of the trusts 
financial circumstances is arguably redundant in the matter.  There was no error to 
correct  but there was an omission to advise where advice should have been given, 
which is the issue in the complaint.
The key issue remains BOS responsibility  for conducting a review of the trusts  funds  
but failing  to give advice on IHT planning  when it was a factor within  the review and 
when it should  have given such advice.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider the following:
Mr Ms intention  with regards to the revert-to-settlor arrangements in 1996 is relevant. 
I am not persuaded that the complaint can fairly be addressed  without treating this 
point. The trust documentation in which the arrangements are clearly set out are 
signed and dated  by Mr M. I consider  that he would have  read and understood the 
documentation before  committing his signature. This supports the conclusion that, in 
1996, he intended to have the trusts assets  revert to his estate  in 2003. This 
contrasts with another trust that has been referred to in the complaint, which was 
settled in 1998 and in which no revert-to-settlor  arrangement was made  so its 
assets remained outside his estate thereafter.  This shows  that he had different 
intentions for the 1996 and 1998  trusts.  This is relevant because, in the absence of 
evidence that shows his intention changed between  1996  and 2002 or that shows he 
specifically sought to change this intention  during the 2002 review or that shows he 
was no longer aware of the revert-to-settlor  arrangements in 2002,  the implication is 
that he retained the intention to have the trusts  assets revert to his estate  in 2003. If 
this is the case, he (and the trustees)  would not have required IHT planning advice 
Ref: DRN27404073with regards to the trusts assets  in 2002  which is broadly what  the 2002 advice 
report said.
I have not seen evidence that Mr M changed his intention, with regards to the 
arrangements, between 1996  and 2002.
I have not seen evidence that a change to the arrangements was expressly part of 
the objectives for the 2002 review. I understand the trustees argument that it was 
implicit within the task of reviewing the trusts  funds  that, as a minimum, BOS should  
have highlighted  the fact that they were  due to revert to Mr Ms estate in the following 
year and perhaps sought his instruction on whether (or not) he wanted advice on that 
 and, if so, to have  given  such  advice.  I agree that BOS should  have  highlighted that 
fact. The advice report confirms that BOS reviewed the trusts  financial 
circumstances so a review ought reasonably  to have captured  that, at least  for the 
sake of completeness. However the complaint is not limited to this point. The trustees 
say the IHT related loss they claim compensation for resulted directly  from this 
omission; and that Mr M would  have acted differently to protect the trusts funds if 
BOS had told him about their impending return to his estate in the following year. 
This creates the need  to be satisfied  that Mr M did not already know  about this and 
needed a reminder; and that if he had been reminded he would have  done  something 
different and revised the intention he had in 1996.
Evidence from Mr Ms financial  adviser  between 2009 and 2014 says that, during this 
period, he was  a financially  astute gentleman:  one that had significant experience 
of managing his own investments, personal and business affairs. The adviser also 
says that his experience of Mr M was that he was  fully aware of his financial  
affairs  and that in all of their discussions [between 2009 and 2014] there was 
never any doubt that the trusts funds were outside his estate. The trustees referred 
to a serious illness endured by Mr M around  the relevant  period.  To maintain 
confidentiality I will not disclose the nature of that illness,  but evidence  from the 
adviser supports  the conclusion that he remained capable  of managing his affairs 
astutely despite  that illness.  The same evidence  supports the conclusion that he 
would have been aware of the revert-to-settlor  arrangements he set up in 1996 and 
that he would have remained aware of it during the review in 2002. This, and the 
absence of evidence  showing that he intended  to change the arrangements,  
suggests that he retained the plan to have the assets revert to his estate in 2003,  so 
it appears  on balance  that he would not have  done something different even if the 
2002 advice report  highlighted  the arrangements to him. 
As the investigator  said,  even though BOS should have highlighted the arrangements 
within its review  and advice report it would not be fair to uphold the complaint against 
it on the basis of its failure to highlight something that Mr M probably already knew.  It 
is noteworthy that the trustees  submissions assume that Mr M would have sought 
IHT planning advice if the arrangements  were  highlighted to him in 2002; and 
assume that he would  have  gone further  to protect the trusts assets  from IHT before, 
in or soon after 2003  which would have avoided the IHT liability issue that was later 
to arise in 2014. These assumptions  need  to be proven,  on balance, in order  for the 
complaint and pursuit for compensation to succeed.  Even if Mr M was unaware of the 
arrangements in 2002  which I do not accept  there remains  an absence  of 
evidence from before or in 2002  to show that he would have no longer wished, at the 
time, for the assets revert to his estate in 2003.  His awareness of and intention to 
have the arrangements in 1996 is supported by evidence. This outweighs  the 
Ref: DRN27404074absence of evidence  of a change thereafter,  up to or in 2002. The implication is that 
the trustees assumptions  do not appear to be supported by evidence from the 
relevant time.
I understand the point the trustees have made about the invitation within  the 2002 
advice report to correct errors.  The report said the assets were  currently (at the time) 
outside Mr Ms estate. That was accurate  they returned to his estate the following 
year. The report also said IHT planning  was not required. There is enough evidence 
in the report to show that the main focus of the review was reinvestment of the 
proceeds from the 2001 encashment  of policies and I have not seen  evidence  of an 
express request  or requirement for IHT planning. This does not negate  my 
conclusion that BOS should have  highlighted the revert-to-settlor  arrangements as 
part of its review.  In this respect  I agree with the trustees that there was an omission. 
However, for the reasons  given  above, I am not persuaded that the omission was 
consequential as claimed. With regards to the invitation to correct errors,  I consider 
that even if Mr M did not consider  that there  was an error to correct,  mention of IHT 
planning within the report and his awareness of the revert-to-settlor arrangements  
would have prompted him to address this point further with BOS at the time and/or 
seek IHT planning advice, if that is what he wanted. He does not appear to have  
done so, which arguably shows that he did not want to alter the arrangements.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from the Estate of Mr M. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask the Estate of Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740407