K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M says Harvey  & Thompson Limited  (H&T)  lent to her irresponsibly.
Background
Mrs M had a number of advances from H&T between December 2009 and June 2012. The 
information H&T has provided suggests  there were around 24 advances.
An adjudicator has considered Mrs Ms complaint  and recommended  it be partially upheld. 
He didnt think H&T shouldve continued to provide new advances to Mrs M from 
October 2011 onwards.
H&T didnt agree with the adjudicator. It says it did enough to check  whether the loans were 
affordable and that it complied with the Office of Fair Tradings (OFT)  guidance on 
irresponsible lending  (ILG  which applied from March 2010).
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
The OFTs  ILG applied from March 2010  onwards. In practice lending responsibly meant that 
H&T shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs M could repay  the loans in 
a sustainable  manner. These  checks  could  take into account  a number of different things, 
such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the customer.  These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN24908682I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defined sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint.
Ive seen no evidence  of H&T having carried out any affordability checks  before lending  to 
Mrs M. I appreciate that Mrs Ms loans were taken out up to ten years ago, so its 
understandable if H&T cant  provide much information about what  it did before lending.  
I havent read anything  negative  into the lack of this information. Mrs M has similarly 
provided only limited testimony about her income at the time and Ive seen no supporting 
evidence about  her income  and expenditure  but I have  accepted  her recollections about 
her income.
For the lending  up until October 2011, I havent  been able to look at the individual  
affordability of each loan due to the lack of evidence.  And overall, during this period of the 
lending, I dont think theres enough  to say, from the pattern of lending  alone, that the 
lending was likely to have  been irresponsible. Among other  things, it looks like there was a 
long break  in the lending  between May 2010 and June 2011. So I think its reasonable to 
look at the lending from June 2011 onwards  as if it were a new chain.
When Mrs M started to borrow again in June 2011,  it looks  like she borrowed  £250. It seems 
her balance then didnt decrease until January 2012  and didnt reach zero again  until 
March 2012. Mrs Ms borrowing reached  its peak  of £400 in October 2011.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ms case,  I think  that from October  2011  onwards, 
H&T ought to have realised further lending would be unsustainable or otherwise  harmful.  
I say this because  by this point  it ought to have been  clear to H&T that Mrs M wasnt making 
any real inroads to the amount she owed it. She hadnt reduced  her outstanding balance  in 
July, August or September 2011  and during  this time she rolled over (or deferred)  multiple 
loans (between  two and five loans)  each month. After rolling over five loans in September 
2011, Mrs M increased her outstanding  balance to £400 in October 2011  the maximum 
allowed under  her credit limit.
So I think its fair to say Mrs M appears  to have been struggling to sustainably repay her debt 
and wasnt able to properly settle  her loans during the above  period. The maximum amount 
she owed was also a substantial portion of her income, which  would likely mean shed find it 
difficult to repay the debt and any subsequent  loans. And she was also effectively paying 
large amounts of interest  to service a debt to H&T over an extended period.
I think that Mrs M lost out because H&T continued to provide loans from October 2011 
onwards and these  loans  had the effect of unfairly prolonging her indebtedness,  by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN24908683So Im upholding  Mrs Ms complaint about the loans  provided from October 2011 onwards.
Putting things  right  what  H&T needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid from October 2011 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Its unlikely any of these  loans will still appear  on Mrs Ms credit file (if they ever did). But if 
they do, H&T should remove  the entries.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires H&T to take off tax from this interest.  H&T must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Harvey & Thompson Limited must put things  right by taking 
the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2490868