K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint is about a central heating insurance policy  he took out with British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
background
Mr A took out a central  heating  insurance policy with British Gas on 10 January 2018. The 
policy provides that a first inspection and service  will be carried  out to ensure that the central  
heating system is eligible  for cover. 
British Gas attended for the first service on 1 February 2018. The engineer found that the 
boiler needed considerable repairs, which British Gas said would not be covered under the 
policy as they would  have been  there  before the policy started. 
Mr A agreed to pay privately  to have the repairs carried  out. The repairs cost just over £800 
and the work  was completed around  a week later. 
Mr A says he expected  the policy to re-start with effect from the date the repairs  were 
completed and to have  the premiums he paid up to that point refunded; this is what he was 
told would  happen  by the engineer. However,  he didnt hear from British Gas with any 
revised paperwork, so he contacted British Gas to complain. British Gas didnt respond  and 
so after eight weeks, Mr A brought the complaint to us. 
British Gas responded after that and said the policy had remained in place from the start 
date on 10 January 2018. However, it offered £100  compensation as a gesture of goodwill, 
to include the refund of the premium  paid for the period between 10 January  and 7 February 
2018, and to reflect the delay in its response  to Mr As complaint.
 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but didnt  recommend it be upheld.  
Mr A is very unhappy about this. He has made a number of submissions, which  Ive 
summarised below: 
if the policy was in place, he should  not have been charged for the repairs and they 
should have been  covered under the policy. British Gas cant have it both ways.
He paid for repairs, which effectively meant he had a rebuilt boiler  and agreed to do 
so on the basis  he would not be paying for the policy for the year afterwards, as there 
would be no need for it. 
The part that was found to be faulty would have cost around £250  to replace but the 
engineer advised him he may as well also replace the heat exchanger  at the same  
time, which made up most of the costs. If he had known the policy  would continue he 
could have just paid for the first part and then later made  a claim for the heat 
exchanger to be replaced. 
The engineer  and British Gas representatives  told him the policy would  be cancelled.
A representative he spoke to on 6 February  2018 to check the engineer was coming 
back out to do the repairs,  was extremely rude and unhelpful. 
The policy continued, as he thought  he was obliged  to continue paying  for it but 
British Gas took over  £800 of my money and then carry on with an unnecessary 
service agreement taking  more  than another £170  in premiums when all expectation 
indeed common sense expected that and intended that the said service agreement  
would be cancelled  or provided  free of charge  for the rest of its term.
Ref: DRN26390412British Gas could  have offered a number of alternative repair packages and payment 
plans rather than continue  with this policy, which was invalid due to the condition of 
the boiler. British  Gas is therefore  also guilty of misrepresentation, which  is surely  
unreasonable conduct.
He didnt receive any explanation from British Gas as to why it was taking so long to 
respond to his complaint. 
After deduction  of the premiums he paid, the £l00 compensation provided is a 
pittance. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the matter, it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  with British Gas states: 
"First service
Your first service  will usually be within 42 days of you first taking out the product  or changing  
your address. If weve already carried out a first service or an annual  service at your address 
in the last twelve months, we wont carry out another one  even if youve just moved in. If 
weve installed a new boiler for you the first service will be carried out as part of the 
installation.
At the first service our engineer will check that your boiler is on our approved list and your 
boiler or central heating and ventilation dont  have any pre-existing faults.
If we find its not on the approved list or it has a pre-existing  fault well either:
 Tell you what  needs to be done to fix it  and how much itll cost
 Offer  you a different product or level of cover
 Or, cancel  your agreement."
The policy also excludes  any pre-existing faults. 
It is not in dispute  that the faults  found at the inspection on 1 February 2018 were  likely to 
have been pre-existing  (theres  no convincing evidence that they arose  between  10 January 
and 1 February 2018). 
Given the above, I am therefore satisfied that British Gas was entitled to charge for the 
repairs carried out in February 2018. Mr A didnt dispute this at the time.  
The term set out above also provides that British Gas can decide  to also cancel the policy or 
offer a different level of cover but it doesnt state that it will do either. 
I dont agree that the fact the policy continued means British Gas had to cover these repairs. 
After a first inspection of the boiler and system  British Gas might decide it isnt prepared to 
provide cover even  once  some repairs are carried out. In this case, it was prepared  to but 
simply would  not cover  the cost of repair of the pre-existing faults. Pre-existing faults are 
specifically excluded from cover  as well as giving British Gas discretion to cancel the policy if 
it so chooses. 
Ref: DRN26390413There was also cover available to Mr A during that period (January to February 2018) for 
matters that would not have been related to the pre-existing faults, and for other parts  of his 
central heating system.  I am not therefore  persuaded  that British  Gas acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in continuing  the policy. I do agree that Mr A should have been told what was 
going to happen however, and I note he says he was told it would  cancel and restart.  
Mr A has suggested to the adjudicator  that he would not have wanted the policy  to continue  
and he may not have  agreed to pay for all the repairs that were carried out at the time,  if hed 
known hed continue  to pay for it. However, the file note of the initial complaint call and his 
email sent around  the same time demonstrate that Mr A wanted the policy  to continue but 
with a revised start date of 7 February 2018. And there is no convincing  evidence that the 
heat exchanger or any other part was not required then or that it would have been covered  if 
it had subsequently failed, given the engineer had identified that it needed replacing at the 
first inspection. Therefore,  even  if he had known the policy was going to continue,  I am not 
persuaded that Mr A would not have continued with the premiums from February 2018 
onwards or that he would not have had to pay for the repairs  he did. 
I do consider that British  Gas should  have  confirmed what  was going to happen  with the 
policy to Mr A earlier than it did but, as I dont think it would have made a difference  to the 
position he would have been in, I dont consider it needs to refund all the premiums Mr A has 
paid, or refund any of the repair costs.
British Gas did take some time to respond to Mr As complaint.  The delay in the response 
would have been frustrating but ultimately  made no material difference to his position  or the 
outcome of his complaint. Mr A also says he was spoken to rudely in one call with British 
Gas. Theres no other  evidence about the call, so while I dont have any reason to doubt  Mr 
As word about what happened, I dont  consider  that there  is evidence  of material  distress or 
inconvenience caused by this that would warrant any compensation payment. 
Overall I am satisfied that the payment of £100  is reasonable  to reflect  the delay in 
responding to the complaint, and to refund the premiums  paid up to 7 February  2018.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited, as I consider it has made 
a reasonable offer in settlement of Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.  I note that Mr A has said he intends to take legal 
action, if his complaint  is not upheld. For the avoidance of doubt,  if he rejects my final 
decision then his legal rights remain intact and are unaffected.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2639041