K820x#14the complaint
Mr H says TSB Bank  Plcs IT problems at the end of April 2018  had an impact on him. He 
says the IT issues affected  his ability to transfer  funds  to his mortgage,  and that this led to a 
delay in getting a new mortgage  he wanted.  He says he has lost out financially as a result.
what happened
In April 2018 Mr H was looking to move his existing mortgage to a new product with a lower 
interest rate. On 23 April hed spoken  to the company arranging the new mortgage  and 
agreed that he would pay £10,000  to reduce his outstanding mortgage balance. Hed then 
been issued with a mortgage illustration which took this reduced balance into account.
Due to TSBs IT issues, Mr Hs online banking wasnt working properly when he needed to 
transfer the £10,000 to his mortgage. So on 30 April he went to a branch to arrange the 
transfer. Unfortunately, Mr H didnt have  all the right reference details for the payment, so 
while it left TSB on 30 April, it didnt arrive in his mortgage  account as expected, and the 
mortgage company  returned the payment on 4 May
Mr H agrees that the payment  bouncing back to TSB was not TSBs fault; hes said he was 
given incorrect information  by the mortgage company. But he feels  that if there had been no 
IT issues  then he would  have been able to make the payment much earlier. And he says he 
ended up paying  a higher  mortgage payment in April, which  he wouldnt have done if the 
payment had been completed on time. Hes also unhappy that the IT issues  made it difficult 
to manage his account for a few weeks, and that his debit card was declined.
TSB looked at Mr Hs complaint and offered him £90 for the cost of the calls he had to make 
to resolve his issues. It also offered £525 for the trouble and upset caused. Mr H wasnt 
happy with this offer, he felt TSB should cover  the difference  between  the mortgage payment 
he paid in April,  and what he would have paid if he had been able to arrange his new 
mortgage in time.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint. He thought  TSB should pay Mr H the 
difference between  the two mortgage payments,  along with £150 to recognise the trouble the 
issues with Mr Hs account had caused.
TSB didnt  think this was fair, so another adjudicator looked at the complaint again.  Having 
got some  additional  information about  what had happened from the two mortgage 
companies involved, the adjudicator felt that what TSB had already offered was fair, she 
didnt think TSB needed to cover the difference  between  the mortgage  payments.
TSB accepted this, Mr H didnt. So the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think what TSB has already  done here is fair.
I dont doubt that TSBs IT problems  affected Mr Hs ability to manage  his accounts. But I 
must also bear in mind that Mr H could have taken steps to ensure that he was able to make  
Ref: DRN21668262the transfer to his mortgage on time, such as going  to the branch before  30 April, which was 
the date that his April mortgage payment was due. Im also conscious of the fact that Mr H 
didnt have the right details  for the payment to be processed correctly, so its likely that if he 
had made  the payment earlier then it still would  have  failed and been  returned by the 
mortgage company.
With all this in mind  I dont think I can reasonably hold TSB wholly  responsible for the delay 
in the payment being made. Though I do think that the IT issues  will have caused Mr H a 
degree of inconvenience and worry.
But taking everything  into account, I think the compensation TSB originally offered, which  I 
understand it paid into Mr Hs account  in October, is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2166826