K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about their interest only mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax. They complain  that the mortgage was mis-sold, and about  action Halifax is taking 
to recover the balance now the term has ended.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 2008.  They borrowed £117,000 over ten years. The 
term expired in 2018. Halifax tried to contact Mr and Mrs M to discuss how the capital would 
be repaid. When no agreement could be reached  it threatened legal action.
Mr and Mrs M complain  that the mortgage  was mis-sold and that they have been  
over-charged by £26,000. They also complain that Halifax has threatened them with legal 
action to recover the balance. They want it to continue to accept payments which 
Mr and Mrs M say would be affordable  for them. They say Halifax is discriminating  against 
them on grounds  of age by refusing to extend  the term.  And they say it is harassing them by 
continuing to write  to them.
Mr and Mrs M say that by 2018  they had paid over £65,000 in interest,  so they would have 
expected the balance  to have reduced  over time as they have now paid over half the capital 
owing. They say Halifax should allow them to re-mortgage and to pay £350 per month  over 
20 years  to clear the outstanding balance. 
Halifax said their mortgage  was in arrears,  and the arrears would need to be cleared before 
it would  discuss a term extension. And then it would need to look carefully at their finances  
and wider circumstances. But it would generally only consider extending the term on a 
repayment basis. And to keep the monthly payments below £400 per month  on that basis 
would require a term of more than 40 years. It said Mr and Mrs M hadnt  made  any suitable 
proposals and so now the full capital balance would need to be repaid.  It didnt  agree  that 
interest had been  mis-calculated, and it said any complaint about the sale of the mortgage 
was out of time. Mr and Mrs M agreed not to pursue the complaint of mis-sale.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint, so Mr and Mrs M asked for it to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage  out in 2008.  As it was interest only, the payments they 
were making only covered  the interest each month.  They were  not paying  off the capital. And 
so Im afraid  I dont  agree that they have  been  over-charged, or treated unfairly, because the 
balance hasnt fallen.  Its not right that the money  they have paid so far contributes  to the 
purchase price of their property, or means that the balance of the mortgage should  have  
reduced by the same  amount.  Thats  not how an interest only mortgage  works, and Ive seen 
no evidence that this one isnt working correctly. I dont think  its been shown that the 
balance Halifax is asking  them to repay is wrong.
When Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage out in 2008, they agreed to pay it back in 2018. Its 
not unreasonable for Halifax to have  expected  that to happen. But when Mr and Mrs M 
Ref: DRN21327092werent able to do so, I would expect Halifax to try and contact them and see what  their 
plans for repayment  are and whether anything could be done  to help them repay.  
Repossession should be a last resort.
I think Halifax was trying to discuss their situation with Mr and Mrs M, and see if a way 
forward could be found. I dont think its letters and other contact were harassment or 
unreasonable.
Halifax discussed Mr Ms income and expenditure with him in 2018 and again in early 2019. 
Mrs Ms details  werent included, but it showed  that Mr M had a substantial surplus  though 
the mortgage was in arrears, and it seems no payments have been made since the 
beginning of 2020. Mr M says he was in accident in late 2019, and later advised  to shield, 
which has affected his ability  to work.
At the time he made this complaint Mr M asked to extend the term of the mortgage and fix 
the monthly payments at either £350 or £400.  Halifax wouldnt agree to that. I dont think  that 
was unfair.  A term extension on interest only terms wouldnt  resolve the underlying  problem 
 that Mr and Mrs M havent  been  able to repay the capital. That problem would still exist. A 
term extension on interest  only terms would only postpone it  to when Mr and Mrs M are 
older, and having  paid more interest in the meantime. Im not persuaded that would be in 
their best interests.
A term extension on repayment  terms would ensure  the capital was repaid. But although his 
income and expenditure assessment suggested  he could afford to pay more,  Mr M said 
£350 or £400 per month would be affordable. And that amount would require a very long 
term extension of perhaps 40 years or more  and longer if interest  rates ever rise. Im not 
persuaded thats a practical resolution either, or that it would be fair to ask Halifax  to wait 
that long for its capital  to be repaid.
I do appreciate the difficult  position  Mr and Mrs M are in. Theyve reached the end of their 
interest only term without a means of repaying the capital. And I can understand why, in 
those circumstances,  they would want a long or indefinite term extension.  But that wouldnt 
resolve the underlying problem  ultimately, this mortgage will need  to be repaid.
Since the complaint was brought to us, Mr M says that circumstances have changed. 
Following an accident he had to give up work and was later advised  to shield. As a result  
theyve not been able to pay the mortgage.  But he says he is expecting compensation, either 
from the accident or a government scheme,  or to benefit from the proceeds of an 
investment.
I dont have evidence  of those things, and they have come to light after this complaint was 
made. Mr M will need to discuss them with Halifax. And Halifax will need to give fair 
consideration to any proposals he might make, bearing in mind that repossession  is a last 
resort. It will also need to bear in mind  current guidance from the regulator  issued as a 
result of the coronavirus pandemic   that repossession cant  currently be enforced  until April 
2021, and thereafter firms must take note of vulnerability, including  shielding, in the action 
they take. But in terms of this complaint  about action Halifax took in 2018  and 2019   I 
dont think it acted unfairly in not agreeing to Mr Ms requests for a term extension. I dont 
therefore uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN21327093my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 April 2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2132709