K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy that bailiffs  still visited his home  after hed contacted  BW Legal Services  
Limited (BW) to arrange  a settlement and prevent bailiff  action.
background
Mr C had some debts,  and in October  2014 BW was instructed to recover one of these 
debts. It seems BW tried to contact Mr C about  the debt but didnt receive  a response,  so in 
December 2014  a County Court Judgement was granted against Mr C. 
BW appears to have  carried on trying  to contact Mr C to let him know  that further  debt 
recovery action could  be taken if he didnt get in touch. He didnt, so in September  2017 BW 
applied to court for a Warrant of Control,  which authorises County Court bailiffs to take 
further recovery action.  A few days later Mr C called BW, made a payment and agreed a 
repayment arrangement. That same  day, BW sent an electronic request to the court  asking it 
to suspend the bailiff action. As it didnt hear anything back, BW wrote to the court about a 
month later again asking  it to suspend the bailiff action.
 
Despite this, bailiffs visited  Mr Cs home in November 2017 while his family were  at home 
alone. This was upsetting for them and for Mr C. Mr C was also upset because  hed thought  
the repayment arrangement he made  meant bailiffs wouldnt visit. So he complained to BW, 
but it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had acted promptly  by asking the court to suspend  
the bailiff action  when Mr C called, and that it had sent a reminder to the court about a month 
later.
Mr C was still unhappy so he contacted  our service. The investigator who looked  into things 
didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. She explained  the bailiffs had acted on behalf of the court, 
not BW. And she thought  BW had done  what it could to stop them  visiting. 
Mr C disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
Mr C doesnt dispute he owes this debt. Ive listened to the call he made to BW in early 
October 2017 - he explains  theres been  confusion  and that somethings  gone amiss 
regarding this debt.  Mr C tells BW that he did receive its letters  but didnt take any action 
because the letters had the name of BWs  client on them. Mr C has told our service hed 
thought this debt was one of the debts hed been  sorting out directly with BWs client.  So it 
seems not repaying  this debt was a genuine oversight on Mr Cs part, and from the evidence  
Ive heard its clear  hes trying to repay his debts.
Its unfortunate Mr C only realised this debt was still outstanding at a fairly  late stage, after 
County Court bailiffs had been appointed. But based on the letters Ive seen and on what 
Mr C himself told BW, Im satisfied BW was trying to contact Mr C about  the debt for quite a 
long time.
Ref: DRN24090812Its important to note that County Court bailiffs are employees of the court, not BW. And that 
because the bailiffs  are not regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority,  I cant make any 
findings about them.
However, Ive looked at what BW did. From the system notes and letters BW has provided, I 
can see it asked the court to suspend bailiff action straightaway  it sent the first request 
during its call with Mr C and then sent a reminder letter  to the court about a month  later. 
Despite this, bailiffs still visited  Mr Cs home though  Mr C was fortunately  able to call them 
and stop further  action.  I do appreciate  this must  have been upsetting for Mr C and his 
family, especially since hed made  a repayment arrangement to prevent bailiffs visiting.  
As Ive said,  County Court bailiffs are employees  of the court, not BW. BW can ask the court  
to suspend bailiff action,  and in this case it did so twice.  But BW cant  control what  the court 
or its bailiffs do. While  I know Mr C and his family have been upset by this, Im satisfied BW 
took reasonable steps to stop bailiffs visiting.
Mr C thinks bailiffs  wouldnt  have visited his home if BW had reminded the court  earlier. But 
BW wasnt  obliged to send a reminder to the court, though it did anyway. And I think a month 
is a reasonable  amount of time for BW to have  waited before sending  a reminder, since  it 
needed to give the court time to process things and respond. So I cant say BW did anything  
wrong by reminding the court after a month.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409081