K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc wont refund the money he says he 
didnt withdraw from his business  account.
background
Mr D says his car was broken into and his debit  cards for his business as well as his 
personal account were  taken with his wallet. Cash withdrawals were  made  in the early hours 
of 10 February 2019 with both cards at one cashpoint. This complaint  is about the 
withdrawals from his business account which totalled £50. He reported this matter  to police.
NatWest said it wouldnt  be refunding this money. The withdrawals were made when  the 
chip on the card was read and the correct  PIN entered each time. There  was no way 
identified in which the PIN on his card was discovered by a fraudster. Mr D said he hadnt  
written it down anywhere. While the police  had told Mr D that CCTV showed a woman  
withdrawing the money this didnt explain how a third party could have obtained  the PIN.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She considered  that Mr D 
hadnt authorised  the payments. They were made  in the early  hours  of the morning  and he 
was looking after his son. The person making  the withdrawals had made balance enquiries 
and still tried to take more  money  than was in the account  suggesting that it wasnt  known 
that there  was no overdraft limit. But she didnt think there was a way in which  that person 
could have found out his PIN unless  hed written it down. NatWest  had said that the PINs on 
both the personal  and business cards had been  system generated and not changed since 
issue. So that didnt  tie up with Mr D having said before  that they were both the same.  She 
thought that keeping a record  of the PIN with the card was gross negligence on Mr Ds part. 
And so he would fairly be responsible for the withdrawals.
Mr D didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
further evidence
I looked closely at the PIN history for Mr Ds business debit cards  provided by NatWest.  And 
I wasnt satisfied with this and asked it further  questions. It confirmed to me that this PIN had 
in fact been changed on 15 December  2007. But it was the PIN on Mr Ds personal account 
debit cards that hadnt been changed  since it was generated by the system on 8 March  
2002. I asked  the investigator to explain this new evidence to Mr D and allow  him to 
comment, noting that this still didnt explain how his business PIN was discovered. He said 
that hed changed his business PIN to that on his personal account  to simply things. But he 
said that he didnt  recall writing this number or the same passcode for his phone down in his 
wallet.
my assessment
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
Ref: DRN27167072not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised  
Mr D wouldnt  generally be responsible for them.
There are exceptions to that and the relevant one here is whether Mr D acted with gross 
negligence in not keeping his details safe.  Negligence is often referred to as a failure to 
exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable  to conclude, the use of gross 
negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes significantly 
beyond ordinary negligence
So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at this complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of how the card and PIN were used for these 
payments?
-Did the way Mr D kept the security  information about his account amount to gross  
negligence? 
Im satisfied from the evidence that NatWest has provided that these cash  withdrawals were 
authenticated. The genuine card was used and the correct PIN entered  with no mistakes.
I need to think  about  whether Mr D consented to them. As our investigator has said there  
were declined withdrawals. A balance  enquiry  had first been made showing that there  was 
just over £61 in the account. And despite the person with the card knowing that, attempts 
were still made to withdraw more than this. Mr D had reported  this to police and I find it 
unlikely that hed have been  trying to make  these withdrawals in this way at around 05:00  
especially as hes explained he was looking after his young son. He reported the withdrawals 
at about 09:30 that day and I can see that was just after a record of him logging  onto his 
account.
That doesnt  rule out him allowing someone  else to use his card. But again  I dont think thats 
likely taking into account the pattern of usage of this card. So, I dont think  Mr D consented 
to the withdrawals and I find that they werent  authorised.
As I mentioned above though I need to think a bit more about how that was possible. I can 
see how his card was obtained but not his PIN. I am going to consider what hes said about  
his PINs on his personal and business cards  here.  Because  thats relevant to thinking  about 
how the PIN for his business  card was discovered. I accept Mr Ds evidence that the PINs 
were the same. Mr D has also indicated  that his PIN was the same as his passcode  on his 
phone which is possible. But that wouldnt explain how the third party had found that out 
when breaking  into his car. Finally I dont think it likely someone could have observed him 
entering the PIN. His last transaction was online with this card and that was six days  earlier.
So I think that it is most likely that Mr D had kept his PIN or passcode with his cards in a way 
that someone could  easily  discover. I say that because  there  were  no unsuccessful  attempts  
to enter  the PIN with either card. 
Mr D was required to keep his security details safe under the PSR and the terms and 
conditions of this account. In my view a reasonable person would think that keeping  a PIN 
with a bank card wasnt a safe thing to do. That meant as here that anyone who had access  
to his wallet could  take money  from his account. So I think this was an action  on his part that 
went significantly beyond a failure to exercise reasonable care. My finding  is that Mr D was 
grossly negligently  in the way he recorded  and kept his PIN. And that makes him responsible  
for these  withdrawals.
Ref: DRN27167073As a result Im afraid I dont  have  a reasonable basis to require NatWest  to refund this 
money to Mr D.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2716707