K820x#14complaint
Miss K says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss K bought  the policy  in 1996  at the same time as taking  out a credit  card through  the 
post. At the time, she was employed in the education sector  and was entitled to 6 -12 
months sick pay. Miss K has said she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and an element of life 
protection  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay 10% of Miss Ks 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 70p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account closed completely in 
2003. Miss Ks representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on her 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Ks representative says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Miss K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss K and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Miss K received was misleading. These  policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss K disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN21944802Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ks. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  before the sale of general insurance products  like 
this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and FCAs) 
overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent 
applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ks case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
Ref: DRN21944803note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Miss Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Miss K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Barclays gave Miss K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss K and 
Barclays, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss K know  she had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  I think  it did this because Ive 
been shown a copy of her postal application.  Miss K was invited to tick either a yes box or a 
no box depending  or whether she wanted  PPI with her card. I note she ticked  the first of 
these and left the no option  blank. This being a postal application, I think Miss K would  have 
filled out the form in her own time and without  any direct intervention from Barclays. So, 
taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Miss K knew  the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN21944804did Barclays provide  advice?
Both Barclays and Miss K agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale.  This means  
Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Miss K. Instead, it had to give her 
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable her to make  an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Barclays has provided us with part of Miss Ks application form and credit agreement 
showing that PPI was selected by her. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it 
says she wouldve seen,  including  the policy terms and conditions   which I accept on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Miss Ks. 
However, looking at the documentation provided  to Miss K at the time, I cant  say Barclays 
gave her all information  she fairly  and reasonably  needed to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. 
This is because the sale took place, by post,  in 1996 which is obviously a long time ago. 
Businesses arent required to keep  all records indefinitely and the part of her original 
application form which we still seem to have access to, gave Miss K only limited information 
about the PPI. 
In my experience however, having seen many such sales from this time period, I think its 
probable there was another part of the application  leaflet, pointing  her to more information. It 
doesnt look like we have  copies of this part anymore, but I think this part would have briefly  
explained more  issues such as the cost.  I also think its unlikely Miss K would  have agreed  to 
take the PPI out without at least having  a broad understanding  of the cover it provided  i.e. 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover, and life protection;  these were indeed briefly  
set out at the point she made  her selection. I also think its highly unlikely Miss K would have 
thought it was free, and again  the cost aspect  was implied directly next to where she herself 
selected the PPI on the application  form.
But it was Barclayss responsibility  to draw to Miss Ks attention  the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. Im not persuaded Barclays did enough  to 
do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the policy was made clear to Miss K, 
including the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim  or that the payments would attract 
interest. In addition, I cant see that Barclays adequately drew to her attention the main  
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
So, I cant say Barclays gave Miss K sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN21944805In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ks representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Ks representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss K about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ks representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss K has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Barclays ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Barclayss shortcomings  have on Miss  K? To what extent did Miss  K 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Miss K. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss K 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss K 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Barclays done things properly. 
Miss K says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. As this was a non-advised sale,  Miss K 
had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the 
potential consequences  if she didnt insure against the risk of being unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Miss K chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude she had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Miss K thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Miss K has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Miss K ought reasonably  to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Barclays didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while  Miss K 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN21944806The policy excluded claims relating to pre-existing medical conditions - any sickness, 
disease, condition  or injury which was known about or which advice, treatment or 
counselling was sought for from any doctor  during the 12 months immediately before 
the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss K 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss K be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do. 
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Miss K turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Miss K pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Miss K didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think she had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss K had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss K was unable  (through disability) to carry on her 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Miss K would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Miss Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN21944807That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss K would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss K 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss K in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Miss K compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss K thinks Barclays misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Barclayss statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Miss K, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 1996 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ks representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss K and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss K in a better position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN21944808my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2194480