K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the transfer of assets  from Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclays Stockbrokers to the new Smart  Investor platform. As a result  he believes he has 
suffered financial loss. 
background
Barclays partially upheld  the complaint and offered Mr H £350 compensation for the poor 
service and trouble  and upset caused.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short she said:
The £350 compensation offered by Barclays  for providing a poor service  was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Barclays rightly  accepts that there were some delays in accessing the Smart Investor 
platform, and it didnt reopen  his complaint when requested in 2018.
When the system migrated to the new platform,  the system  reverted  to Mr Hs old 
contact address which meant it sent the necessary passcodes  to his old address. 
Whilst she appreciated it must have been upsetting  and worrying for Mr H to discover 
that his details had been sent to his previous address, shes  unable  to say this has 
caused him a financial  loss. The correct  address was updated  in late September  
2017.  
If Mr H continues to have  concerns about  this he can refer his complaint to the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mr H had access to his account by 11 October. Although  he says he wasnt able to 
sell his shares on 1 September 2017 as hed planned, because he couldnt trade 
online  he was able to trade  over the phone  and it wouldnt  have been unreasonable 
to expect hi 
Although Mr H maintains he couldnt trade  over the telephone because he didnt have 
the necessary  passcodes and had spent substantial  amounts of time trying to get 
through  he still could have got through and explained his situation.  Barclays  has 
confirmed that it wouldve  made an exception in the circumstances.        
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He maintains his position and has asked  
for an ombudsmans  decision.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been referred to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Because Barclays has upheld this complaint, the key issue  for me to consider is redress.  On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr H says I think  Barclays offer is 
broadly fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN21773662Barclays quite rightly  accepts that there were delays with Mr H accessing  the new platform  
and that it had sent the codes to his old address by mistake. Thankfully the delays were 
limited, and the latter was a systems error rather that thankfully hadnt resulted in a direct  
financial loss to Mr H. 
I know Mr H is particularly unhappy as he hasnt lived at the previous address for nine years  
and someone couldve  had access to his personal  information. If Mr H remains  concerned 
he has the option to refer his complaint to the ICO which deals issues  relating to General 
Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and any breaches. 
Despite what Mr H says about  his losses, on the face of the evidence and on balance  Im 
unable to safely say hes suffered  a financial loss as a result.  Despite what  he says about 
the missed opportunity, Ive seen no evidence of Mr H trying to trade  during this period 
regardless of the difficulties. 
Im mindful that Mr H had the opportunity to trade over the telephone. Whilst I note the points 
he makes about the problems he faced  such as the long delays, the phone being hung  up, 
and not having the codes necessary  I note Barclays  says it wouldve made  an exception to 
him not having  the necessary codes. But Mr H wouldnt have known this, as hed concluded  
he wasnt going to get anywhere  over the phone.     
I think the Barclays shouldve dealt with Mr Hs complaint better, but overall I think Barclays  
offer to pay £350  compensation  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr H will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2177366