K822xcomplaint
Miss S says Casheuronet  UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid)  irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about twenty-four payday  Quick Quid  provided to Miss S from May 2008  
onwards. Miss S last loan was provided in October 2013.
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss S complaint  about  the loans from loan three onwards. So she 
thought that Miss S shouldnt  have  been provided with these  loans. Quick  Quid didnt accept 
our adjudicators view in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans three would more likely than 
not have shown that:
Ref: DRN27990362the repayment required for this loan took up a significant proportion  of Miss S 
monthly income. In these  circumstances,  there was a significant risk that Miss S 
wouldnt have been able to repay this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Miss S, I also think  
that Quick Quid should  reasonably have seen that Miss S was unlikely to have been able to 
make her loan repayments in a sustainable  manner by the time it provided loan four. I say 
this because:
by this stage, she had owed Quick Quid money  for a persistent period of time. In my 
view, Miss S owing Quick  Quid  money for this period  of time, in these circumstances, 
was in itself a clear  demonstration of Miss S inability to settle her loans over the life 
of the credit agreement.  
in total, Miss S was given loans for a period of more than five years.  This cannot, in 
any circumstances, be reasonably described as short-term period.  And, in my view,  
Miss S paid large  amounts of interest  to, in effect, service  an increasing debt to Quick  
Quid over an extended period.
I think that Miss S lost out because  Quick Quid provided these loans because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss S indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time she owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Miss S ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept her in the market  for these  high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  Miss S complaint about  payday loans three, four, ten and eleven and the 
flex credit facility and Quick Quid should put things  right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss S paid on loans three to twenty-four;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss S owed Quick  Quid money means that any information still 
recorded about the loans from loan three  onwards is adverse. So all entries  about  
these loans should be removed from Miss S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN27990363my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss S complaint.  Casheuronet  UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Miss S compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799036