K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains Zopa Limited  (Zopa) have given  incorrect information about  his account 
with them  to Credit  Reference Agencies (CRA).
background
I issued a provisional decision in this case on 28 January 2020. Ive attached  a copy  to this 
decision. It set out my provisional conclusions.
Mr T told us his complaint  had been ignored here in favour of what Zopa feel his complaint 
should be. He said as he understood the GDPR Zopa, as controllers of his personal  data,  
are responsible for making sure any users of that data keep it up to date and accurate.  And 
he thought regardless  of what Zopa  reported to C this had clearly not been the case.  Zopa 
told us they had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as I did in my provisional  decision.
Im mindful Mr T thinks his complaint had been ignored here in favour of what  Zopa feel his 
complaint should  be. Whilst I disagree  I want to be clear and unambiguous as to which  of 
Mr Ts concerns we can to address or not so he could  explore alternatives. So I should make 
it clear that its for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide if theres been a 
breach of data protection which means I cant make a finding on the point he raised in 
response to my provisional  decision. So Mr Ts concerns in this respect  are better  directed  to 
the ICO. 
Mr T hasnt  challenged my finding  that Zopa  havent reported this account as closed. So, for 
the reasons Ive explained in my provisional  decision  I remain satisfied that Zopa  havent  
reported this account as closed. So theres  nothing before me which changes my 
conclusions and I dont  see any reason  to alter my view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20355342COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr T complains Zopa Limited (Zopa) have given  incorrect information about his account  with them  to 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRA).
background
Mr T came to us as he was unhappy with the response from Zopa when  he complained about  how his 
account status  was recorded with a free credit  file reporting service,  who Ill call C. Mr T had a screen  
shot from his account with C showing  his Zopa account as closed with an outstanding balance.
Zopa didnt  uphold his complaint. Zopa told Mr T his account with them  was active  and currently in an 
arrangement status due to the nature  of payments  and clearing the arrears on the loan. Zopa told Mr 
T they hadnt contacted any CRAs  advising  his loan with them was closed  and had only ever advised 
the loan was in an arrangement status.  They could see his account  with them showed as closed on 
the screen shot from C and they requested that was amended  as a matter of urgency.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Overall he thought Zopa  had wrongly  informed C that Mr Ts 
loan with them was closed with an outstanding balance. The investigator said C told Mr T  they 
received their information  from a CRA, who Ill refer to as E.  And Mr T had confirmation from E that 
Zopa provided them with information entered on his credit score. The investigator said this meant 
Zopa had given E the incorrect credit file information. He thought  Zopa had reported incorrect 
information as C would only enter  information provided  to them by Zopa. The investigator said CRAs 
cant make  up details  about  a customers credit report which meant the information  must have been 
provided to them by Zopa.  The investigator thought,  although Zopa had rectified the error, if Mr T 
hadnt noticed  it then incorrect information would  still be showing on his credit file. The investigator 
thought Zopas error and the delay  in responding  to his concerns should result  in a payment of £75 
compensation to Mr T.
Mr T accepted  the decision but Zopa didnt. They thought they had evidenced that at no point did they 
report that Mr Ts loan was closed so didnt feel it was fair that the error should  sit with them.  Zopa 
sent us an email  from E. They said this showed  Mr Ts account was only ever reported as being  in 
arrangement, never  closed. They also sent a single line extract from their monthly  upload  to CRAs for 
all their customers for the November 2019 upload. Zopa said the status code next to Mr Ts name  
showed an arrangement was reported. They asked for an ombudsman to consider the case. They  
also asked for this service  to contact C to ascertain why they showed  this account  as closed as this 
wasnt the information Zopa  had provided  to E.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Its important to make it clear at the outset of this complaint that Im 
dealing only with Mr Ts complaint against  Zopa here.  
No one disputes the screen shot Mr T has sent us from his account with C detailing his closed  
accounts relates to his open account  with Zopa. Its got the correct date the account was opened and 
the correct final four digits of the account number. Whats not right is it being shown as closed with a 
significant outstanding balance. But at the moment  Im not satisfied thats because of anything  Zopa 
have done wrong. Im not satisfied Zopa have given incorrect  information to either E or C. Ill explain  
why.
In respect of C Zopa doesnt  have  the ability to report directly to them. The only CRA  in this case who 
Zopa can report to is E. Cs website says C shows you your  E  credit score and reportE is a 
CRAC is not a CRA itself:  it gives you access to the data that E holds on youfor free. So its 
simply not possible for Zopa to give any information to C, incorrect  or otherwise.
Ref: DRN20355343The records  which Zopa have sent us, most particularly  the email they received from E dated 30 
November 2019 satisfy  me that Zopa havent reported this account as closed. E set out in this email  
the payment profile for Mr Ts account which confirms it being reported as either  up to date with 
payments or in an arrangement for a period  - but never as closed. The email also confirms no manual  
amendment has ever been  made  to this account.  
I know Mr Ts had emails from E on 9 September 2019 stating the account  information you have a 
question with is coming from Zopa. But those emails dont detail what  that account  information from 
Zopa is. But the email  from E to Zopa on the 30 November 2019 gives the full payment profile theyve 
recieved. And I have nothing from either E or C to show me what information C received from E.
I have every sympathy for Mr T  its clear that the information C held about his Zopa account  was 
incorrect for a period of time. But, on the evidence currently before me, I dont think  its reasonable for 
me to hold Zopa responsible  for that mistake. So, at this stage, I cant say Zopa have done anything 
wrong. There was a small delay in auctioning Mr Ts request for an amendment  but as this was a 
precautionary measure  on Zopas part - rather than them correcting a mistake - I dont think this is 
unreasonable. But Ill consider any further information either party wish to send me before making  a 
final decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that, subject to anything further that Mr T or Zopa Limited  send me by 28 
February 2020, Im planning not to uphold  this complaint.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2035534