K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Stonebridge  International Insurance Ltd (Stonebridge) mis-sold him a Serious 
Illness Cash Plan in 2002.   
background
In 2002 Mr H was sold a policy by Stonebridge which provided a daily benefit if he was in 
hospital as a result of a covered serious illness and a lower level of benefit if he needed  
outpatient care. Mr H was sent a welcome pack which included  details of what the policy 
provided and the cost.  The policy was cancelled in 2010 by Stonebridge for non-payment of 
premiums. 
Mr H says he doesnt recall filling in an application  form or speaking to anyone  about the 
policy. He queried  whether  he would have been able to benefit from the policy and doesnt  
believe he had a need for it. Stonebridge  says the policy was taken out during a phone  call 
and it didnt provide  any advice about  it to Mr H. 
Our investigator thought it likely the policy was sold during  a phone call and the information 
Mr H was then sent explained  what it covered. She thought Mr H was eligible for cover and 
could have benefited from the policy. She also noted  Mr H had a cooling off period in which 
he could have cancelled  the policy if it wasnt right for him. She didnt think the policy had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr H didnt agree. He didnt remember having  a phone call with Stonebridge and asked for 
an ombudsman to review  the complaint. So I need  to reach  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr H doesnt remember taking out the policy. And theres  no call recording 
which isnt surprising given the time that has passed. However, Stonebridge has provided 
screen shots which indicate a call did take place and that during the call Mr H gave it 
information about his place of birth and his payment details. 
In addition its not in dispute Mr H then received  information about the policy. I think if he 
hadnt agreed to take it out hed have queried  why hed been sent that and it doesnt appear  
he did. So I think its most likely  a phone  call did take place  and Mr H agreed to take out the 
policy at that time. I also note the only eligibility requirement for the policy was to be between 
the ages of 18 and 55 and resident in the UK which Mr H was.
Stonebridge says the policy was sold on a non-advised  basis and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest otherwise.  That means  it didnt need  to decide whether it was suitable for Mr H but 
should have provided him with clear information  so he could decide  for himself if it was right 
for him. 
I cant be sure of what was said when Mr H spoke to Stonebridge but I can see the costs and 
benefits of the policy  were  set out in the information  Mr H was sent about  it. I think that 
would have made it clear  to Mr H what the policy provided and what it would cost. So he 
could have cancelled  it at that point  if he thought  it didnt meet his needs. 
Ref: DRN27017252And while he says he was in good  health at the time the policy  was designed to protect him 
against unforeseen risks. That means  if the position  had changed and Mr H needed hospital  
or outpatient treatment  for a covered serious illness the policy could have been of benefit  to 
him. In any case as this was a non-advised sale it was for Mr H to decide for himself whether 
it met his needs. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2701725