K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Close Brothers  Limited  (Close Brothers) have defaulted  his finance 
agreement and are making  charges that could have been avoided  if they hadnt  made  
mistakes setting up his direct debit.
background
In October  2017 Mr A bought  a phone and entered into a finance agreement with Close  
Brothers to fund it. But he says the retailer put the wrong sort code on the direct debit 
mandate and this meant that monthly instalments failed. In January Close Brothers  sent 
Mr A a default notice  as theyd not received payment.  A new direct debit was set up but the 
arrears on the account werent cleared and in April Close Brothers  therefore  sent Mr A a 
notice of termination asking for payment of the outstanding debt, and charges. They  passed  
the liability to a debt collection agency.
Mr A says this was the result of incorrect bank details  being recorded on the initial direct 
debit mandate.  Hes happy to pay the outstanding debt but doesnt want to be liable for 
charges and doesnt want the default  reporting to credit reference agencies.
Close Brothers didnt  think theyd done anything  wrong. They  accepted that the direct debit 
instruction had gone wrong but they said the new direct  debit  couldnt  be set up to pay the 
arrears and despite regular attempts to contact Mr A this hadnt been done  and the debt and 
charges remained  payable. 
So Mr A referred his complaint to this service and our investigator reviewed the evidence. 
She thought  the retailer, Close Brothers agent in this transaction,  had been at fault for 
recording the wrong bank details on the direct debit.  She accepted that this had created 
some confusion and she thought Close Brothers could have made  an attempt to contact 
Mr A by alternative means, when their emails  were not returned prior to a default being 
raised. She thought Close Brothers  letters  to Mr A in March  and April couldve set out the 
deadlines in which payments were  required and she thought  it wasnt  reasonable to send a 
termination notice  on this basis, especially as the original  default had been a result  of their 
mistake. She noted that Close Brothers  hadnt  explained  to Mr A, until 20 April, that the 
arrears couldnt be collected  through a direct debit. But, she also thought Mr A couldve done  
more to pay a debt that he was clearly aware of from the end of April.
She therefore suggested a conditional settlement where as long as Mr A paid the debt and 
the charges due, Close Brothers would remove the default from his records  with the credit  
reference agencies.
Close Brothers reluctantly  accepted that view but Mr A didnt. He didnt think he should be 
responsible for charges that were the result of a mistake made by the retailer and he 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A but I think the resolution proposed by the investigator is 
sensible and reasonable. Please let me explain.
Ref: DRN27990022Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I accept that Mr A was initially  disadvantaged when the incorrect  bank details were entered  
on the direct  debit instruction. This led to payment issues and I think the default  issued  in 
January wouldnt  have been  issued  if Close Brothers, or at least their agents, had not made  
a mistake and if theyd tried alternative means  to contact Mr A.
But its also clear that Mr A owns the debt. The agreement began in October  2017  and I 
think its reasonable to suggest he had a responsibility to ensure  his debt was being repaid.  
Its clear hed recognised  the debt wasnt being paid in January as he wrote  to Close 
Brothers explaining that no direct debits had been presented to his bank. I dont think its 
unfair to suggest  that he could have made more stringent efforts to ensure payments  were 
made from this point onwards and I therefore think Close Brothers were reasonable when 
levying charges and when  pursuing the outstanding  debt.
As long as the outstanding debt and charges are repaid by Mr A I think  it would be 
reasonable to clear  the default  that wouldnt have been generated if Mr As bank details had 
been properly  recorded. But it wouldnt be fair to expect Close  Brothers to do that until the 
debt was cleared  in full. So I agree with the investigators proposed redress.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Close Brothers 
Limited to remove the default from Mr As credit  file if the debt and arrears are cleared within 
14 days of the acceptance of this decision by the parties.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2799002