K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a used car he acquired  with finance provided by BMW  Financial
Services (GB) Limited (trading as Alphera  Financial Services) (BMWFS)  was of
unsatisfactory quality  when it was supplied.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 June 2020. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the parties. Both parties have 
responded and accepted my provisional  findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the responses received from Mr S and BMWFS, I see no reasonable grounds to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. 
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and require BMW Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
(trading as Alphera Financial Services)  to:-
1.end the finance agreement and arrange  to take the vehicle back at no cost to Mr S;
2.refund  the £500 deposit  paid under  the HPA;
3.refund  20% of each monthly  instalment  paid by Mr S towards the finance;  
4.pay interest on the refunds referred to above at 8% simple a year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
5.pay Mr S £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and
6.remove any adverse information  recorded  about the finance from his credit  file.
If BMWFS considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr S how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27895622copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that a used car he acquired with finance provided  by BMW  Financial
Services (GB)  Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) (BMWFS)  was of
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied.
background
Mr S took out a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with BMWFS  on 16 April 2018 for this eight
year old car with about 74,000 miles on the clock. The cash price was £4,250.  A week after
collecting the car Mr S had problems with central locking  and the gearbox - he found the car
jerked intermittently  in reverse gear. The car has an automatic gearbox and Mr S was a new
driver and used to a manual gearbox so he thought  he might just need to get used to the car
but things didnt improve.
He took the car to a local garage  in June 2018 for diagnostic tests but these didnt identify  a
fault. The problems persisted and Mr S got in touch  with the dealer that supplied the car (that
Ill call M) in July 2018.  M suggested Mr S should contact the company that provided a
warranty he got with the car. Mr S did that but found he had to pay 40% of the cost of repairs
under the warranty  terms. He didnt think he should be expected to contribute  towards this
sort of repair - so soon after getting the car - so he complained  to BMWFS.
BMWFS asked for evidence that a fault was present  at the point of supply - and closed the
complaint when Mr S didnt supply  more  information. Mr S says he did send additional
evidence - to show that checks had indicated  the gearbox needed replacing and repairs
would cost nearly  £3,000 - but he couldnt provide everything BMWFS wanted as costly
investigations (that he couldnt afford) would  be needed to diagnose the exact fault.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She was satisfied the car showed signs of a
gearbox problem within six months of supply - and thats presumed to have been present  at
the outset under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA). She asked BMWFS if it would  pay
for an independent expert to inspect  the car and it agreed. The expert provided his report  in 
December 2019 - when the car had travelled just over 80,000 miles.  He confirmed there was an 
internal transmission  fault.
Our investigator recommends the complaint should  be upheld. She thinks  it is more likely
than not the fault identified by the expert was present when Mr S got the car - as he reported
similar gearbox problems very early on. She acknowledges the car was eight years old, and
had a relatively high mileage, when it was supplied.  But, she notes  the expert says cars of
this age and mileage  wouldnt usually  have this sort of problem and shes not persuaded  its
likely to be wear and tear related. She doesnt think its likely to be due to Mr Ss driving
style either  - as he had problems with the gearbox so soon. And shes satisfied the relevant
manufacturer has acknowledged theres judder  at times with these  gearboxes - and carried
out modifications on newer models  to fix this.
On balance overall,  she thinks this car was probably  of unsatisfactory quality when Mr S got
it. To put things right,  she thinks BMWFS should take the car back, cancel the finance and
refund the £500 deposit.  She considers the use Mr S had of the car was probably impaired
as a result of this fault - as he only covered  about 6,000 miles in the car over a year and
eight months.  She says BMWFS should refund  monthly payments made towards  the finance
from November 2018 in full, in recognition of that - and pay interest on the refunds. She
thinks Mr S is likely to have experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of being
supplied with this faulty car and recommends  BMWFS  should pay £150 compensation to
reflect that and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
BMWFS didnt agree  and said (in summary) 
Ref: DRN27895623the expert considered  the fault wouldnt have been present at the point of supply and this 
should be taken into account;
even  if the issue was present at the outset,  on the balance of probabilities as our investigator 
suggests, its not unreasonable to expect this in an eight year old car with about  75,000 miles 
on the clock  that cost just over £4,000; and
this car travelled more than 6,000 miles after supply  which shows it was of satisfactory  quality 
when Mr S got it.
Our investigator didnt change  her mind.  Shes satisfied the expert said this sort of issue
wouldnt be usual for a car like this. Shes not persuaded it would be fair to hold Mr S
responsible for a fault that occurred so soon after supply  - even in a car of this price, age
and mileage. Shes seen no evidence to show Mr S was told the car had a fault at the outset
- or that the price was reduced on account of this. And she thinks hes unlikely to have
accepted the car if hed known  about the gearbox fault at the outset.
BMWFS asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS supplied this car under a finance agreement and it was required to ensure the car
was of satisfactory quality when Mr S got it, under the CRA.  The level of quality  thats to be
considered satisfactory  will vary according to individual circumstances but its generally
reasonable to take the age, mileage and price  paid for a vehicle into account.
3
This car was eight years old and cost over £4,000 with about 74,000 miles on the clock at
the point of supply. As such, I dont think Mr S could  reasonably expect it to meet  the same
standards as a new vehicle as some parts were more  than likely worn and would need to be
repaired or replaced sooner  or later.
Theres no dispute that Mr S reported issues with the gearbox very early  on. BMWFS
arranged for an expert to check and see if the car had a fault. I am satisfied the expert
seems to be independent and have relevant qualifications. I can see he inspected  the car
and took it on a road test last year and Ive considered the report  he provided after that. I
think this is fairly  detailed and makes sense and I consider it reasonable to give some weight
to the experts conclusions.
I am satisfied  the expert  experienced a loud knocking type noise with a violent jolting
present intermittently when changing between drive and reverse gears. He concluded that
this was probably due to an internal transmission fault - albeit further investigation would be
needed to identify the exact cause. And he did not think this fault was to be expected in a car
of this age and mileage.
In light of this evidence, Im satisfied the car had a gearbox fault present when the expert
inspected it. But, I can only hold BMWFS responsible for this if I am satisfied it is likely  to
have been present when Mr S got the car. I accept  the expert  said no clear  evidence was
presented during [the] inspection to confirm the fault would have been present at the point
of supply. But, part of my role here is to look at all of the available information  and evidence
and weigh this up in order to determine what is most likely, in all of the circumstances.
I am satisfied  theres  evidence that Mr S reported having trouble with the gearbox -
specifically juddering  on reversing - within weeks of getting the car. I have seen a booking
confirmation from a third party garage (that Ill refer to as S) dated 28 June 2018 that says
the car was booked in for a gearbox inspection  as the powershift was very jerky. Im
satisfied Mr S reported the same issue to M and BMWFS a few weeks later. And Im
satisfied that mechanics, who saw the car around the relevant time, concluded there was a
Ref: DRN27895624transmission issue which was significant  enough to mean the gearbox would need  to be
replaced.
I think  this evidence  seems  consistent with the fault identified by the independent  expert in
December 2019 having been present since the car was supplied. And I find this conclusion
is supported by the fact the relevant manufacturer seems to have acknowledged theres  a
problem with this sort of gearbox - as taken steps to modify the clutch  in later models  to
rectify the issue.
I dont think most people  would  expect  to have to replace a gearbox just weeks after supply -
even in a car of this age, price and mileage - and I think Mr B had a reasonable expectation
that the gearbox in his car would not exhibit faults so soon. Taking  everything Ive seen into
account, I am minded  to find it more likely than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality
when it was supplied.
Like our investigator,  I think it is fair that BMWFS  should  put things right in this situation.  I
appreciate Mr S got a warranty with the car and M thought  he could have the car repaired
using that. But, I understand from Mr S, this didnt  cover all of the costs  of repair  - meaning
he would have had to pay about half of the estimated cost. I think  it is understandable  Mr S
felt that was unfair, in these  particular circumstances.
4
The CRA says suppliers  may be entitled to one opportunity  to repair  in this sort of situation -
provided (broadly speaking) that doesnt take too long or prove  too inconvenient. Looking  at
everything that happened,  I consider it would have been reasonable for BMWFS to have the
car checked much sooner  than it did here. Given the time thats passed since Mr S first
reported the problem,  and the inconvenience  he experienced as a result, I am inclined to find
it fair that he should be allowed to reject the car and have the deposit  paid under  the HPA
(set out as £500 in the agreement) refunded.
Our investigator considers the use Mr S had of the car was likely impaired significantly -
because hed only driven 6,000 miles in around a year and a half. So she recommends
BMWFS should refund monthly instalments paid from November 2018. Ive spoken to Mr S
and hes confirmed that he has been able to continue to drive the car - albeit not as much as
he would have done if the gearbox hadnt  been faulty.  He says the current  mileage  is about
82,000 miles.
Working out whats fair in this situation is not an exact science. I understand from Mr S that
he anticipated driving about 5,000 miles  a year originally - thats the annual  mileage he
declared to his insurers at the outset. I think it is likely,  on balance, that his use has been
impaired as a result of the gearbox issues and hes probably driven  the car a bit less than he
otherwise would. But, Im satisfied that Mr S seems to have been able to use the car most of
the time - looking  at the mileage accrued since supply  hes driven about  80% of the mileage
anticipated at the outset.  So, I am minded to find it is fair for BMWFS  to refund 20% of each
monthly instalment made since the car was supplied in recognition of impaired use.
I am satisfied  that Mr S probably experienced some distress  and inconvenience  here - I can
see he had to take the car in for checks several times, amongst other things. I am inclined to
agree with our investigator  that it is fair and reasonable for BMWFS  to pay him £150
compensation for that - and remove any related adverse information recorded  about  this
HPA from his credit file. I now invite both parties to consider  my provisional conclusions and let me 
have any further comments or evidence by the date set out below.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 8 July 2020 my
decision is I intend to uphold this complaint and require BMW Financial  Services (GB)
Limited (trading as Alphera Financial Services) to:-
Ref: DRN278956251.end the finance agreement and arrange to take the vehicle back  at no cost to Mr S;
2.refund the £500 deposit  paid under the HPA;
3.refund 20% of each monthly instalment paid by Mr S towards the finance agreement;
1.pay interest on the refunds referred to above at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
4.pay Mr S £150 compensation  for distress and inconvenience; and
5.remove any adverse  information recorded about the finance from his credit file.
Ref: DRN2789562