K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with their home emergency  insurance.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with a complaint against one insurance company 
or other regulated financial firm at a time. We deal with a complaint about an insurance claim 
as a complaint  against the insurance company responsible for dealing with that claim.
We are dealing with this complaint against UKI. This final decision will name  UKI but it wont  
name any other company or individual.
Mr and Mrs P had a bank account  that - for a fee - gave them various  benefits.  One of the 
benefits was home  emergency insurance. The home emergency insurance  included 
emergencies relating to vermin.
UKI was responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to UKI, I include any home 
assistance company  and any engineer  insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their actions.
In February 2017  Mr and Mrs P asked UKI for help with rats in the loft of their home. 
They complained about UKIs response. It sent a final response letter  dated  20 April 2017.  
It contained the six-month deadline for bringing that complaint to us.
While Mrs P was abroad in September 2017,  Mr P had a problem with maggots. 
In December 2018  by which time they had changed address - Mrs P complained that UKI 
had unfairly said the insurance didnt cover maggots.  UKI sent a final response letter dated 
31 December 2018.Mr  and Mrs P brought their complaint to us in February 2019.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator said that we couldnt  consider the earlier complaint about rats; we could  
only consider the complaint about  maggots.  Mr and Mrs P accepted that opinion.
Later our investigator recommended that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought it 
reasonable to count  maggots under vermin . He recommended that UKI should:
1.contact Mrs and Mr P and reconsider the claim; and
 
2.pay Mrs and Mr P £150.00 compensation for the inconvenience they were put through  
for not initially  considering the claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs P and to UKI on 28 February 2020. I summarise my findings:
UKIs unfair decision caused Mr and Mrs P a loss of money on work that the policy 
shouldve covered - up to the policy limit of £750.00  including VAT. And I was minded 
to find it fair and reasonable to direct  UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs P (jointly) up to that 
policy limit. I also intended to direct UKI to pay interest at our usual rate.
Ref: DRN21482042By a decision Id found unfair  UKI caused  Mr and Mrs P extra distress and 
inconvenience at an already difficult time for them.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs P or from UKI, my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part. I intended  to direct U K Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P (jointly):
1.£750.00 in reimbursement of the two invoices for pest control; and
2.simple interest on £750.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 6 October 2017 to the date of 
reimbursement. If UKI considers that HM Revenue and Customs  requires it to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should  
also give them  a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate; and
3.£150.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs P disagree with the provisional decision in part. She says, in summary, that:
UKI twice sent out pest control who did put out poison/ traps.
UKI didn't  do their job properly in the first instance. That led to maggots and the whole 
issue in Sept/Oct  2017 and additional  work.
The amount they paid for the monthly  packaged bank account fees includes payment for 
home emergency benefits  which  were  incorrectly rejected.
The only time she arranged for a pest controller to remove  everything from the loft was 
in Oct 2017 after the maggots issue. 
UKI should  be liable for the full amount of costs e.g. for fumigating the maggots £265  + 
clearance of dead rats £600 = £865.  
UKI also disagrees with the provisional  decision.  It says, in summary, that:
In February 2017 Mr and Mrs Ps loft wasnt boarded. So it asked them to find their own 
contractor and send  in a receipt  on company headed  paper.  It would  then consider 
reimbursement up to the policy limit of £750.00.
Mr and Mrs P didnt deal with the original rat problem  in a timely  manner.
The rats were the cause of the problem. 
It takes approximately 3 weeks for a rat to decompose. Anyone living  at the property 
would notice  the smell well before the maggots became a problem. That indicates  that 
the property was empty for some time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The monthly fee was payable  to the bank. Only part of it related to the home emergency 
cover provided by UKI. Much of it related to the other benefits such  as access to airport  
lounges and discounts on cinema tickets.  
Ref: DRN21482043Because of this, I dont find UKI responsible  for selling - or mis-selling - the insurance. So Im 
not minded to find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to refund or pay compensation for any 
part of the monthly  fee.
The policy provided  emergency assistance subject  to a limit of £750.00  including  VAT. The 
policy terms included the following:
2. What is covered
Emergency incidents  that will be covered by this policy are
 Vermin such as rats, mice, or wasps nests  inside the Home
Vermin  is not defined by the policy. But the examples include wasps  nests.  This illustrates  
that vermin include insects.  Maggots are the larval  stage of flies. So I find that the policy 
covered not only rats inside the home  but also maggots and flies.
As they didnt bring their complaint to us within six months of the final response letter  in April 
2017  and they havent shown exceptional circumstances prevented them  from doing  so  I 
dont have the legal power to look into Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about what  UKI had or 
hadnt done during its visits in February  2017.
That means I cant find UKI responsible for not removing rats in February 2017 and the 
consequences of that.
Theres an issue whether  Mrs P engaged another pest control  company  shortly after UKIs  
visits in February 2017. So Ive looked  into that. I find that UKI invited Mrs P to pay another  
company and send  in its invoice for reimbursement  up to the balance  of the policy  limit.
So I find it likely that if shed paid another company in about February 2017 she wouldve 
sent in the invoice. But theres no evidence that she did. So  whilst Mrs P has provided 
conflicting information on this issue- I dont find that another  company became responsible 
for removing  rats at that time.
I accept that the rats in February  2017 were  a likely cause  of maggots and flies in 
September 2017. But for the reasons Ive mentioned, I cant  hold UKI responsible  for that 
and I havent found that Mr and Mrs P engaged another company which was responsible. 
UKI hasnt  provided  enough evidence to show that Mr and Mrs P shouldve  foreseen  and 
prevented the dead rats leading to maggots.
The maggots and flies were   by September 2017  - causing a risk to the safety of Mr and 
Mrs Ps home and a risk of damage to the home or its contents. And I find that this was an 
emergency covered  by the policy. So I find that UKI made an unfair decision by turning down 
their claim during a telephone call on about 13 September 2017.
Ive thought about directing UKI to reconsider the claim. But the emergency is long over. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay compensation. In assessing 
compensation its not my role to set a figure to punish UKI or to deter such  unfair decisions 
in future. Rather I look at the effect  of the unfair decision on Mr and Mrs P. 
Im not persuaded that it was UKIs  unfair decision that caused  Mr P to take time off. He 
mightve had to take an equivalent amount of time off if UKI had agreed to visit again. And 
he hasnt given details  of how he would otherwise have been  earning money. So I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct  UKI to compensate him for any such  loss.
Ref: DRN21482044Mrs P has provided us with an electronic file of a companys invoice for £265.00 for pest 
control on 13 September 2017.  She has also provided us with a copy of a workmans  
handwritten invoice dated 6 October 2017 for £600.00 for RODENT TREATMENT IN LOFT 
AND CLEARANCE  OF CONTAMINATED MATERIAL WITHIN.
So I find that UKIs unfair decision  caused Mr and Mrs P a loss of money on work that the 
policy shouldve covered - up to the policy limit of £750.00 including  VAT.  And I find it fair 
and reasonable to direct UKI to reimburse Mr and Mrs P (jointly) up to that policy  limit. I also 
intend to direct UKI to pay interest  at our usual rate.
I dont doubt that  by a decision Ive found  unfair   UKI caused Mr and Mrs P extra distress 
and inconvenience  at an already difficult time for them. While she was abroad they had to 
contact not only UKI but also another pest control  company and the workman. So  in 
addition to the £750.00 and interest  I find it fair and reasonable to direct UKI to pay Mr and 
Mrs P (jointly) £150.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs P (jointly):
1.£750.00 in reimbursement of the two invoices for pest control; and
2.simple interest on £750.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 6 October 2017 to the date of 
reimbursement. If UKI considers that HM Revenue and Customs  requires it to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It should  
also give them  a tax deduction certificate  if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate; and
3.£150.00 for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148204