K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws representative has complained, on his behalf, that he was given unsuitable advice by 
Insight Financial Associates Limited  to transfer  his pension arrangements  into a Family 
Pension Trust Self Invested Personal  Pension  (SIPP) for the purpose of investing in 
commercial property in Cape Verde.
In particular, Mr Ws representative  has said that the recommendation to invest in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS)   in overseas property  would have  
liquidity issues due to a restricted sales market and lack of certain exit strategy. It said it was 
unsuited to his circumstances and needs and also that the amount to be invested in the 
SIPP was too small  and would be eroded by fees and charges.
Mr Ws wife has also complained on a similar basis, but whilst reference  will be made below 
to Mrs W where  necessary, her complaint  has been  dealt with separately.  
background
Prior to meeting  with Insights adviser,  Mr W held a SIPP with the intention of investing in 
commercial property  specifically a business property which was to be bought  with his 
business partner.  But this didnt ultimately  happen.  
In late 2011, Insight introduced Mr W to the investment scheme complained  of, in the Llana 
Beach Resort,  which  was offered and operated by The Resort Group Plc. This was by way 
of an invitation  to a presentation at Insights offices.
In November 2011, a follow up appointment was made, during which a fact find document 
was completed,  and recorded the following  information about Mr W:
He was 43 years  old, with 22 years  until prospective  retirement  at age 65
He was married  with two children,  both of whom  were  financially  dependent
He was a joint Company  Director  with a gross  annual  income  of £34,200.00  -
of which  £27,000.00  were  dividends
Held  around  £12,800  in a Cofunds  Investment  ISA, £7,000  in savings  and 
£2,500  in shares/equities.
He owned  his home,  worth  £280,000,  which  was encumbered  by an outstanding  
mortgage  of £85,000.00
He had an existing  SIPP  with Montpelier,  invested  in line with a 'balanced'  risk 
portfolio,  with an approximate  value  of £49,000.00.  No regular  contributions  were  
being  made.
He also held two other  smaller  pensions,  with a projected  annual  retirement  
income  at the time of approximately  £5,000.
He wasn't  particularly  experienced  in investing  and no discussions  were  held in 
relation  to his outgoings.
He couldn't  afford  to make  pension  contributions  at the time of the advice  as he    
was building  up his second  business,  but he intended  to do so when  he was able.
Mr Ws objective  was recorded  as being  to increase  the prospects  of him having  a 
pension  pot at retirement  sufficient  to produce  an annual  income  of £30,000  pa jointly  
with his wife.
Ref: DRN27478152His attitude  to investment  risk was recorded  as being  medium-high,  although  it seems  
that this was increased  to facilitate  the investment  in the overseas  property.
Mr W signed  the reservation  form for the property  investment  on 24 November  2011,  
before  receiving  the suitability  report  dated  31 December  2011.  In that report,  Insight  
recommended  that Mr W transfer  his existing  SIPP  to one with Rowanmoor  for the 
purpose  of investing  in the overseas  property.  This was established  in mid-December  
2011  and at the beginning  of February  2012,  just under  £47,000  was transferred  into the 
new SIPP.  On 23 April 2012,  an amount  of £52,481  (derived  of both Mr and Mrs Ws 
pension  funds)  was transferred  to The Resort  Group  for investment  in the overseas  
property.
Income  by way of interest  from the scheme  was subsequently  received  up to October  
2014  in advance  of the completion  of the property.
In 2015,  Mr W entered  into a consolidation  exercise  as it wasnt  possible  to complete  
the investment  due to funding  issues.  This meant  that his (and his wifes)  ownership  
changed  to 25% membership  of a different  property.
In April 2019,  Mr Ws representative  complained  to Insight  on the above  detailed  basis,  
but Insight  didnt  uphold  the complaint.
It said that Mr W had already been  committed to buying commercial property in the UK, but 
that this investment hadnt materialised. He would nevertheless  have been  familiar with the 
implications of such an investment and the only difference with the Cape Verde scheme was 
that it was overseas. His attitude to risk had also been recorded  as medium-high, Insight 
said.
It was highly unlikely  that the existing SIPP would be able to fund the purchase  of the 
overseas SIPP,  hence  the need to transfer to the new one, Insight asserted. It further said 
that the property  investment wasnt illiquid and that income was being  paid from it  as 
evidenced from the accounts Mr W had received.
It also thought  the complaint had been made  too late and was not one we could consider 
under our rules. It said that, under our rules,  a complaint needed to be brought within six 
years of the event complained of (the transfer  of his pension to a SIPP and investment in 
Cape Verde property), or, if later, three  years  from the date he became aware he had cause  
for complaint.
Insight said that, in March 2015, Mr W had changed his investment from a whole property 
investment to a part share and he would have received new documents  at that point. It 
argued that Mr W would  have known what he was doing and would have questioned the 
need to change the format of his investment - and so it would have expected  a complaint to 
have been made at that point.
An ombudsman considered the jurisdiction  arguments raised by Insight  but decided  this was 
a case we could  consider  under our rules. None of the correspondence on file suggested to 
the ombudsman  that Mr W was aware or ought  to have become aware of cause for 
complaint earlier than 2017. Specifically, she didnt think that the consolidation exercise in 
2015 would  have given Mr W awareness  of cause  for complaint as this formed a new 
agreement  and set new income  predictions.  
Ref: DRN27478153There was nothing about the exercise, or the wording used to describe it, which ought to 
have given Mr W cause for concern. The ombudsman said that it was only when Mr W 
began to receive the income from the new arrangement in July 2017 that it was possible he 
would have had cause for complaint.  
As Mr W complained in April 2019, the ombudsman said that the complaint was in time and 
was one which we could consider.
The complaint was then considered by an investigator, who thought the complaint should be 
upheld. He said the investment was high risk and unsuitable for Mr W. In support of this, he 
said the following  in summary:
The investment  was unregulated, and therefore  lacked the associated  regulatory 
control and oversight.
It was a new development with no track  record of operating successfully or 
guarantees of profits  being realised.
As it was an overseas  investment, there  was a currency exchange risk, as well as a 
risk of the development not being completed and there being no resale value.
All of Mr Ws pension  funds had been  placed  in a single asset  there was no 
diversification of risk.
Although Mr W was recorded as having a medium-high risk attitude and had 22 years 
left to retirement, he had very little to fall back on apart from two small pensions  
which would provide around £5,000  pa.
The other assets consisted  of his mortgaged home, £12,800 in an ISA and some 
emergency savings.  But there was no in depth discussion about Mr Ws outgoings or 
his inability to make further  pension contributions.
His existing SIPP seemed to have been invested  in medium risk rated funds, which  
would have been appropriate for him.
The FCAs guidance on good practice when  recommending UCIS  was that around 3-
5% might  be appropriate. But Mr W was unsuited to any high risk investment. His risk 
rating was recorded as being medium-high.
Nevertheless, Insight had advised  him to invest all of his pension  funds into the 
UCIS.
He had a low capacity  for loss and the investment itself required further funding 
which he was known  to be unachievable  at that time due to his focus on building  his 
second business.
The details about Mr W contained  in the financial planning report didnt depict an 
individual who was an experienced high risk investor. The investigator thought it 
likely that Mr W had believed that this was the required  rating  to be suited to the 
recommended investment.
The high risk nature of the investment wasnt suited to Mr Ws objective of creating a 
joint £30,000 annual  income  he may have needed to replace future  income rather  
than building on it. Conversations  should  have been had about contributing further  to 
his existing pension,  or seeking opportunities in a similar risk category.
The investigator therefore considered what Mr W should instead have been advised to do. 
He thought that, on balance, if Insight had advised  against the transfer  and investment, Mr 
W would have accepted that recommendation.
Ref: DRN27478154He noted that there were two parts to the investment,  but no consideration had been given to 
how the second tranche of investment would be funded. The investigator thought  that the 
advice was therefore incomplete and ill conceived.
The investigator concluded that, suitably  advised,  Mr W would have  simply left his existing 
SIPP arrangement as it was. And he recommended that Insight undertake a loss calculation 
on the basis that Mr Ws pension funds had been retained in an environment  where  he 
would be exposed to some investment risk  in line with one of our benchmark indices.
Insight disagreed, however, saying the following  in summary:
The intention of the existing SIPP was to enable Mr W to invest in commercial 
property. He was therefore fully aware of the implications, these being: property 
values could fluctuate; possible saleability issues; and there  being  no guarantees the 
property would produce a profit.
It agreed that there may be exchange rate risks, but it couldnt see the relevance of 
Mr W not making further pension contributions. The reason for this was known.
It queried as to whether there was any indication that the existing investments would 
produce the income required  by Mr W. 
Mr W had also made  it clear  from the outset that he wished  to invest in commercial 
property. Although his existing pension assets may have been invested  in a more  
balanced risk manner  and it agreed  that the Cape Verde investment was high risk 
- he would still have  needed to disinvest  these to make  his business property 
purchase.
That he had very little to fall back  on could  probably be said for many clients  who 
either left their pension funds  where  they were or moved them around. There  was 
never any guarantee that the funds would grow sufficiently to produce the expected 
income, and Insight questioned as to whether a clients  expectations might be too 
high.
It was well aware of the FCAs guidance on good practice when  using UCIS  
investments, but when  a client made  it very clear as to the type of investment they 
wished to make, there was sometimes little an adviser could do to change their mind.
Insight was of the view that, whatever  it said to Mr W about  investing in the Cape 
Verde scheme, it would have made no difference as he wanted to invest  in some  
form of commercial property  irrespective of his low capacity for loss.
It disagreed that, in order to achieve his objective of improving his retirement income, 
he would  have  left his investments as they were. Insight reiterated  that, whether the 
funds remained with the existing SIPP or were transferred to a new one, Mr Ws 
intention was to invest in commercial property.
Insight enquired as to what  steps  Mr W took in 2015, when the consolidation exercise  
was happening,  to find out why these changes needed to take place. It said that, if a 
new arrangement  needed to be put in place, this should have prompted  questions as 
to why this was required.
As agreement hasnt been  reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
my findings
Is the complaint  within our jurisdiction?
Firstly, Im satisfied the complaint is one I can consider. While Insight has repeated that Mr 
W ought to have  become  aware that he had cause for complaint as a result of changes to 
Ref: DRN27478155his investment in 2015, Im not persuaded thats  the case. Mr W was made aware, in the 
suitability report,  of the need to fund the second part of the investment upon the propertys 
completion  which  was scheduled  for June 2015.  Therefore, I dont think  that the 
consolidation exercise, in the absence  of the means of funding  that second  tranche, would 
have come as a particular  surprise to Mr W, or ought to have given him cause for complaint 
on that basis.
So, as with the previous ombudsman, Im not persuaded that he has brought  his complaint 
too late  and Mr Ws complaint is therefore one we can consider.
Having reached  that conclusion,  Ive then considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
 
The applicable  rules,  regulations and requirements
The following  isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied to a firm
when giving advice,  but provides useful context for my assessment of Insights actions  here.
COBS 2.1.1R required a business to act honestly,  fairly and professionality in accordance
with the best interests of its client'.  And in order to ensure this was the case, and in line with
the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, Insight needed to gather the necessary information  for it 
to be confident that its advice met Mr Ws objectives.
It also needed to ensure  that Mr W had the necessary  experience and knowledge to
understand the risks he was taking. Broadly  speaking,  that section sets out the requirement
for a regulated advisory  business to undertake a fact find process.
Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a business to explain why the
firm has concluded that the recommended transaction  is suitable  for the client"  - in other
words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability  report  outlining  its advice and the
reasons for it.
In this case, Insight  wrote  to Mr W in December 2011, recommending that he transfer  to the 
SIPP for the purpose of investing  in the overseas property. On the basis of that report and 
other information relevant to the case, I therefore consider in the following sections whether 
Insight adhered to its regulatory obligations and gave Mr W suitable advice.
Did Insight meet its obligations  in recommending the transfer to the SIPP?
Mr W was transferring from his existing designated investments (his existing SIPP)  to 
another designated investment (the new SIPP).  And as Ive said above, Insight had to obtain  
the necessary  information to have a reasonable basis on which  to decide the replacement 
SIPP met Mr Ws investment objectives  (COBS 9.2.2R). That included Mr W having  the 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks of the proposed investment and that he 
was able to bear those  risks. 
Insight also needed  to consider the suitability of both the transfer to the SIPP and the 
subsequent investment  i.e. the purpose of the transfer to begin with. Mr Ws objective was 
set out as being to invest in the Cape Verde commercial property, and the SIPP was 
recommended by Insight  to allow  Mr W to make  that specific investment. So, the risks of the 
Cape Verde property  investment were a fundamental  part of the risks of the recommended  
product. 
Ref: DRN27478156Insight was in a position to make a clear  recommendation  about whether or not Mr W should 
invest in the Cape Verde property. But I dont  think it did so here - it was more of an 
investment facilitation exercise.  The discussion  was in essence limited  to the best way of 
funding the property purchase, rather than exploring whether the transfer and reinvestment 
into the overseas  property  was the right course  of action  for Mr W. 
In the suitability report, the investment is assumed to be happening,  rather than discussed 
as a suitability  consideration.  And to emphasise this, within the second paragraph under the 
heading Objective, which was simply described  as being for Mr (and Mrs) W to retire at age 
65, appears the sentence  beginning  with the phrase The property you are purchasing.. 
This therefore effectively  bypassed an entire  consideration as to whether the transfer and 
investment in overseas commercial property was suitable for Mr W. The closest  Insight got 
to this was to provide a list of the advantages and disadvantages of the proposal.
There is no doubt that Mr W was introduced to this property investment by Insight  the 
suitability report confirms  this. Insight should  therefore have  made a clear recommendation 
about whether  Mr W should invest in the Cape Verde property  with robust reasoning  as to 
why it had reached its conclusion. It didnt do so, and I therefore think  it failed to adhere to 
the regulators requirements.
Was the recommendation suitable?
Insight was aware that this was a high-risk investment.  It mentioned this a number of times 
in the suitability report and has confirmed its view on this in its response to the investigators 
assessment. It noted that this was an investment in one asset  class,  that commercial  
property wasnt a readily saleable asset  and that there would be limited  liquidity in Mr Ws 
pension. It also said the developer could  go bust and that there  was no guarantee of 
consistent performance.
This isnt an exhaustive list of the potential risks with the investment. The investigator added 
others, such as exchange rate risk, which Insight has also accepted. But I think its clear that 
the property investment could only have been  suitably recommended to investors who were  
prepared to risk losing all of their investment and who could afford  to take that risk. 
So Ive therefore  thought  carefully about whether Mr W would fairly and reasonably be 
described as fitting that particular bill. 
Mr Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as medium-high and that he was willing to invest  his 
capital in more  volatile markets, with the potential for higher than average returns. But I have 
concerns over the way in which this attitude to risk was ascertained.  Mr W was seemingly in 
the first instance recorded as having  an understanding that a degree of risk does have to be 
taken in order to provide  the potential for investment return.
The suitability report then said that this risk attitude  had changed slightly   and had become 
higher. And the reason given for this was because Mr W was recorded  as wanting to buy the 
commercial property and have the potential  to produce an acceptable level of income in 
retirement.
But an investors attitude to risk shouldnt be adjusted  so that it aligns with the proposed  
investment. The proposed  investment  should  be adjusted so that it aligns  with the investors  
attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN27478157So my conclusion here is that Mr Ws risk tolerance  was more likely than not artificially 
elevated for the purpose of him becoming  a suitable candidate for overseas commercial 
property investment, with all of the associated risks (as outlined above). And that his actual 
tolerance for risk - which, having been elevated to medium-high, I reasonably assume  was 
previously medium - was in fact ill-suited to those kinds of risks. 
This is also consistent with the comment that Mr W wanted to reduce his exposure to 
equities as he had witnessed  losses in his pension funds. This type of sentiment is distinctly  
at odds with a strategy which  then placed  his pension funds into a single high risk asset.
The regulators guidance  on UCIS, whilst giving examples of good and poor practice, places 
no particular cap on the percentage that this type of investment  ought  to represent in an 
investors portfolio.  This would be dependent upon the investors individual  circumstances 
and objectives.  But notwithstanding the required  attributes for an investor  to have  this type of 
investment promoted  to them,  which  Mr W didnt possess, I dont think it was suitable to 
place close to 100% of his money  purchase  funds into one high risk investment such  as this.
In terms of Mr Ws investment experience, Insight said in the suitability report that he wasnt  
a particularly experienced investor. He also had no experience of overseas investing.  This 
also wouldnt  lend itself well to an investment of the majority of an individuals  pension funds 
in one high risk overseas investment. The same section did then say that Mr W was able to 
understand the concept of investment risk and the level of risk which  had been agreed.  That 
doesnt change  my view on his risk rating as set out above, however. What this really means 
is that Mr W understood that he needed to be recorded as having  an elevated  attitude to risk 
to render the investment suitable.  And in the absence  of suitable advice to not elevate that 
risk rating and consider a more appropriate alternative,  I can understand why Mr W agreed 
with the statement.
Insight also needed  to consider whether Mr W had the capacity  to bear the investment risk 
he was taking (COBS 9.2.2R).  Mr W was investing  the value of virtually all of his existing 
money purchase pension  funds, so if the investment failed, his retirement  planning would be 
significantly impacted.  His other  assets,  other  than the jointly  owned  main home, were 
modest, and it was known  that he didnt have the capacity to contribute further to pension  
planning at that point  due to his focus on his businesses. So Mr Ws pension  funds couldnt 
have been readily replaced, or bolstered  by other significant resources. He simply didnt 
have the capacity for the kind of loss which could be sustained with this type of investment.
Its fair to say that, as Mr W still had 22 years to retirement, it might have been possible  for 
him to replace  some of his pension funds if they declined in value  or were completely lost. 
But the problem  here is that, at the time,  Mr W was focussing on supporting his businesses.  
And although he may have had the intention of making further pension contributions when 
he was able, there was no indication as to when this might be possible.
So on the basis of the above  reasoning,  my overall view is that this wasnt a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W, or at least that Insight didnt have enough information, or enter 
into a sufficiently robust assessment of Mr Ws attributes and circumstances to determine  
whether it was suitable for him. Had it done so, it also would have concluded,  or ought  to 
have concluded,  that this wasnt  a suitable recommendation for Mr W.
Would suitable advice  have made  a difference?
Ref: DRN27478158Insights argument  is that Mr W was intent upon  investing in commercial  property in some 
form. This was originally envisaged to be in the business premises  of which he would be a 
co-owner with his business partner. But for whatever reason, this didnt transpire.
Insight has said in its response to the investigators assessment that, irrespective of what  the 
adviser said, Mr W would have  still invested  in the overseas property, as the objective was 
investment in some form of commercial property. I dont think  this position stands up to 
scrutiny, however.
A plan to invest in a commercial property which is directly connected to an individuals  
business could  be quite understandable,  even when  there might be no prior experience of 
this type of asset. There might be many advantages to this, not least of which would be the 
elimination of rental payments. So this is quite  a specific investment which might well be 
justified by the particular circumstances of an individual such as Mr W, especially if the cost 
was to be shared  and so may not require all the pension funds for the purchase.  
But there was no such connection between Mr W and a yet be built overseas commercial 
property. As Ive said above, he had no experience of this kind of investment. The available 
evidence doesnt  support  the position that this was a notion from which  Mr W simply couldnt 
be dissuaded, even  if Insight had tried. This was a proposal which  was introduced  to Mr W 
by Insight, in which  he then demonstrated  an interest, and which in turn was nurtured  by 
Insight through  exploring ways in which the investment could be achieved  rather than 
undertaking an actual suitability assessment for the proposal.
Mr W had been recorded as wanting  to explore  whether his pension  funds could  be better 
utilised in another way. There was no specific requirement that they needed to be invested  in 
commercial property, or that Mr W was, prior to the involvement of Insight,  interested in 
investing nearly all of his money purchase pension  funds in a single high risk overseas  asset  
 and in terms  of Mr Ws likely aversion to high levels of investment risk, Id again draw 
attention to his comment  about being  troubled  by the falls hed seen in equity funds.
Ive noted that risk warnings were given, and often emphasized in bold. For example, Insight 
said the following  in the suitability report:
I also wish to emphasise the risk when purchasing any form of property that the developer 
could go bust.  You have  acknowledged your understanding of this risk and you remain  
convinced that utilising a SIPP to purchase  commercial property is an option  you wish to 
pursue.
Mr W clearly wasnt put off by these risk warnings, and they are clear  in terms of what  Insight 
said may happen. But Insight will be aware that, where an investment isnt for whatever  
reason suitable  for an individual, the provision of risk warnings wouldnt render that advice 
suitable. Of the two parties, Insight, as the professional firm of advisers,  needed to make  it 
clear to Mr W that the investment wasnt suitable,  with the reasons as to why this was the 
case. In the absence of this, Mr W is likely  to have been reassured that, despite the risk 
warnings, the investment, as assessed  by Insight in light of the fact finding it had undertaken 
for him, was suitable.
And ultimately, if Insight  had properly concluded that this investment wasnt suitable for Mr 
W, it could have explained this and then, if Mr W still wished  to proceed, and Insight was still 
prepared to transact the business on his behalf,  categorised him as an insistent client. 
Ref: DRN27478159It didnt do this, and so it cannot  be known  with certainty as to whether  Mr W would have 
acted differently if Insight  had advised against  the investment. But for the reasons given  
above, I think its more  likely than not that, if Insight had pointed  out that this investment 
wasnt suitable for Mr W, and had advised  against  it, Mr W would have accepted  this advice.
What does Insight  need to do to put things right?
Having concluded,  for the reasons set out above, that the investment  wasnt suitable for Mr 
W, Ive then thought about  how it should  put matters  right.
My aim to is put Mr W, as closely as possible, into the position hed be but for Insights 
unsuitable advice.  The investigator concluded  that any redress payable to Mr W should be 
calculated on the basis that he would have  invested  in a manner broadly aligned  with one of 
our benchmarks  the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index  on the basis  
that Mr W was prepared  to take some  risk with his pension funds, and that this index 
consists of a mixture of asset  classes  mainly UK equities and government  bonds.
I think this is probably about  right. Mr W had expressed concern about  the declines in 
equities in his existing portfolio, but was nevertheless prepared to take some  risk for the 
sake of future growth. And so the balancing nature of the lower risk assets in the form of 
bond holdings  in this index seems  appropriate  here.
So to calculate whether  compensation is due to Mr W, Insight Financial  Associates  Limited  
should do the following:
It should compare  the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark index. 
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Insight  Financial Associates Limited should pay this into Mr W's 
pension plan, to increase  its value by the amount  of the compensation and any interest. 
The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Insight Financial Associates Limited  is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr W's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. On the basis  of Mr Ws assets and likely 
pension provision, I have assumed this to be basic rate. As Mr W would be able to take 
a tax-free lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight Financial Associates  Limited  
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN274781510Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Ive noted Insights comments that the investment remains liquid. But if, at the end date,  
the investment  is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), it may be 
difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Insight Financial Associates Limited should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Insight  Financial  Associates Limited  is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.  Insight Financial 
Associates Limited may wish to ask Mr W to provide  an undertaking to pay it any amount 
he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred on drawing  the receipt from the pension plan. Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Insight Financial Associates Limited may total all of those  payments 
and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Suitably advised,  Mr W wouldnt have invested in his current  SIPP. So it wouldnt be fair if 
Mr W continued to have  to pay annual SIPP fees if there are illiquid holdings preventing the 
SIPP from being closed.  
Ideally, Insight would take over the illiquid property investment, thus allowing the SIPP  to 
be closed. But this may not be possible. So, to give certainty to all parties,  if the investment 
is illiquid, then it is fair that Insight pay Mr W an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of fees on the proportion of the SIPP represented  by his investment (calculated  using  
the previous years fees). This gives a reasonable period to arrange for the SIPP to be 
closed.
The investigator also recommended that Insight Financial Associates Limited pay Mr W the 
sum of £200  to reflect the likely trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable advice. I agree  
its quite likely that Mr W will have  been caused no insignificant amount of concern here,  
given the proportion of his pension  funds which has been unsuitably  invested. So Insight  
Financial Associates Limited  should pay this further  amount to Mr W.
 
Ref: DRN274781511my final decision
For all the reasons given,  my decision is that I uphold the complaint and I direct Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay any redress due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Philip Miller
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2747815