K820x#14Complaint
Mr W and Ms B have complained about the decision by Phoenix Wealth  Services Limited 
(Phoenix), previously known as AXA Wealth Services Limited (AXA),  to withdraw an 
important aspect of the Family SunTrust  that they had set up.
Background
The Family SunTrust  Scheme was a self-invested personal pension scheme (a SIPP) 
which had been  on the market since 2009.  It allowed individual pensions to be grouped 
together and included a facility  where investment growth  could be re-allocated between 
members pensions on a non-proportionate  basis  (the flexibility option).
The scheme was provided by a part of AXA which was subsequently bought by Phoenix
In January 2015 Mr W and Ms B consulted  their independent financial adviser. They had 
three objectives:
To obtain  access to a variety of existing money purchase policies.
To increase Ms Bs pension savings and reduce Mr Ws pension savings.
To mitigate the impact of lifetime  allowance on the totality of Mr Ws pensions and        
savings.
The Family SunTrust was recommended as it was the only product capable of addressing  all 
three objectives because  of the unique feature of the flexibility option which was fundamental 
to Mr W and Ms Bs investment decision.
Mr W and Ms B applied for the Family SunTrust in 2015 and invested the monies  into the
scheme in April 2016.
AXA closed the scheme to new business in July 2016 and withdrew the flexibility option on 2 
September 2016.
Mr W and Ms B are of the view that in withdrawing the flexibility option,  AXA breached the 
schemes terms and conditions. They dont think the decision was a legitimate  exercise  of 
AXAs discretion  but rather it was made because of the upcoming  sale of parts  of AXA to 
Phoenix.
They also feel AXA misrepresented  information by failing to disclose the risk of the option 
being withdrawn  and thereby induced their investment into the Family SunTrust  scheme.
They are also unhappy that their adviser was given  assurances that HMRC was 
comfortable with the flexibility option despite several months  of discussion with HMRC 
about the option.
AXA says it withdrew  the flexibility option after full consideration of changes  within  the 
pension regulatory  and tax environment. It says it acted  in accordance with the schemes  
terms and conditions and gave the required notice period. It feels Mr W and Ms B accepted 
the contractual right AXA had to withdraw the option at any time when they took out the 
product. And it is satisfied  that Mr W and Ms Bs adviser was kept fully informed of AXAs 
dealings with HMRC  regarding this issue.
Ref: DRN21627302The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators. He was of the opinion  that the 
decision AXA made was a legitimate exercise of its commercial  judgement  and so the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Mr W and Ms B didnt agree with the assessment.  They werent satisfied  that all of their 
concerns had been answered and challenged what evidence had been provided  by AXA to 
prove it withdrew the flexibility  option in line with its terms and conditions.
I issued my provisional findings in March 2020 where I explained why I was of the view the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. An extract is below and forms part of this final decision.
Did AXA breach the schemes terms and conditions and was the decision  to withdraw 
the scheme a legitimate exercise  of AXAS discretion
The terms and conditions  of the Family SunTrust  scheme state:
[AXA] has the right to decide  that the provisions set out in the Operative provisions in part 3 
of the document [i.e. the provision of the flexibility option] will cease to apply [AXA] can 
exercise this right only if there are changes in, or [our] interpretation changes  of, applicable 
pensions, tax or other law, legislation, regulation or industry codes of practice. [AXA]  can 
exercise this right upon giving.30 days written notice so far as practicable to do so.
So, I am satisfied that AXA had the ability to remove the flexibility  option if it met the criteria 
in the terms and conditions. And I am satisfied  that in doing  so it exercised its commercial 
discretion.
I have next considered whether AXA did indeed meet  the criteria mentioned above  in other 
words whether AXA changed its interpretation  of the applicable  pension  laws and regulation.
To do this I have looked at the history  of AXAs involvement and dealings with the Family 
SunTrust Scheme.
AXA has provided me with information concerning the communication  it had with HMRC 
about the Family SunTrust. I have seen:
The template  letters  from the AXA Family SunTrust manager to advisers  where the 
scheme was applied for /or had been taken out. These are dated 2015 and 2016.
The timeline of the development  of the Family SunTrust scheme, provided by AXA.
Letters between HMRC and the Family SunTrust  team at AXA from May 2015 to July 
2015 discussing the scheme and more specifically the flexibility option.
The confidential report to AXA from legal  counsel regarding the flexibility option.
An email between Mr W and Ms Bs adviser and the business development manager 
at AXA in April 2016. In this email the adviser asked AXA to confirm his 
understanding of the situation regarding the flexibility  option and asked for an email  
he intended to send out to his clients be approved  by AXA.
From this information I can see that AXA started  to look into the feasibility  of launching the 
product in late 2006. In light of HMRC legislation  and after legal advice it launched the 
Family SunTrust on a limited basis in March  2008  and launched it fully in February 2009.
Its documented in the timeline provided by AXA that at this point in time HMRCs  view was 
Ref: DRN21627303that the flexibility option was within the rules,  but it was noted  that HMRC provided no 
guarantees that position wouldnt change in the future.
For the next few years,  until 2015 the information indicates AXA kept reviewing the scheme 
and despite some changes to pension regulation  over these  years  AXA remained satisfied 
that HMRC was content with the scheme and that its flexibility  option was within  the relevant 
rules.
However, in May 2015 HMRC asked for further details from AXA about how the pooled  
growth in the scheme was allocated to its members. This appears to have been prompted by 
an increase in pension liberation  scams  (a type of fraud). AXAs  response  tried to reassure 
HMRC about the flexibility option,  but HMRC  advised that it had concerns over the model 
being used to allocate growth and it felt that this could be contrary to sections 172 
(Assignment of benefits) and/or 172A (Surrender  of benefits) of the Finance Act 2004.
Because of these  concerns, HMRC  stopped registering new schemes.  However, HMRC 
resumed registration  in October 2015.
There then followed much discussion between  AXA and HMRC.  And AXA again sought legal 
advice during this period. However, because of the continued HMRC investigations AXA 
closed the Family  SunTrust to new business  in May 2016.
The information I have  from AXA states that the legal advice it received at this point 
acknowledged that the risk environment within the pension area had changed. AXA has told 
me that because of this and HMRCs continued  investigations, it made the decision that it 
was no longer appropriate for it to continue  with its interpretation that the flexibility  option 
was appropriate  within the ever-changing pension environment.
Taking account of this information, Im satisfied  AXA had been carefully considering the 
nature of the flexibility option for some time. It also appears to have engaged quite heavily 
with HMRC over the years to ensure it was being  compliant with HMRCs thinking and
relevant regulation as well as seeking legal opinion  when it felt prudent.  I therefore dont 
think this decision was made quickly without careful consideration. Im satisfied it followed a 
genuine change  in AXAs  interpretation of applicable  pensions, tax or other law, legislation, 
regulation or industry codes of practice.  While I appreciate this happened  around the same 
time as the sale to Phoenix was progressing,  I think this was mere  coincidence rather  than 
central to the decision to withdraw the feature.
I also note that AXA gave notice on 2 August 2016,  which was just over 30 days  before the 
option was officially  withdrawn (on 2 September 2016), as required by the terms and 
conditions. I therefore  dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably  when it withdrew the 
flexibility option and it acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it did so.
Did AXA intentionally misrepresent  information by failing to disclose the risk of the 
option being withdrawn
Ive next looked at the information that AXA provided to Mr W and Ms B and their financial 
adviser throughout this period. Ive considered whether AXA gave any guarantees about the 
availability of the flexibility option or whether AXA misrepresented any information so as to 
induce Mr W and s Bs investment.
As already  mentioned,  the terms and conditions of the Family SunTrust stated  the option 
Ref: DRN21627304could be withdrawn in the circumstances  already  set out above.  So, it was clear from the 
outset the flexibility  option may not be a permanent feature of this product.
As well as this in the communication  between AXA and Mr W and Ms Bs adviser  (through  
the Schemes  product  literature, terms and conditions and update  letters)  I can see that it 
was stated that the option could be withdrawn. The passing on of this information was for 
their adviser to do. So, this is, in my view, enough  to put any investor in the Family SunTrust 
on notice that this could be withdrawn at any time
So, I cant see that Mr W and Ms B were  told at any time that option was guaranteed to 
remain part of the Family SunTrust.
AXA did also send communication to advisers in October 2015 and January 2016  which  
explained discussions with HMRC were ongoing and reiterated that not all the features of the 
Family SunTrust could be guaranteed. This information also invited advisers to withdraw 
applications at that time if their clients wanted. It also mentioned  HMRC was still continuing 
with its investigations  and that registration of new schemes was at its own risk. This 
information should have been  communicated to Mr W and Ms B by their adviser. So even  
though this was before Mr W and Ms B transferred monies into the Family SunTrust  this 
information would have formed part of their decision to continue  with the investment or not.
And in this case, even though they were told HMRC  were investigating, they decided to 
continue with it.
I therefore think that AXA provided  the information  it had to and did it in a fair and clear way 
at that point in time.
Did AXA give false assurance about the scheme
Mr W and Ms B have said AXA misrepresented information to induce this investment. 
Mr W and Ms B feel that the email their adviser  received from AXA in March  2016, which 
stated HMRC are fully aware of the features of the Family SunTrust and continue to 
approve [AXAs] schemes. [AXA is] comfortable  that the scheme  continues  to comply  with 
HMRC pension rules and its business  as usual for us, was intended to provide reassurance 
that there  was no imminent risk of withdrawal of the flexibility  option when that wasnt the 
reality of the situation.
They feel that at the time these assurances  were  given AXA must  have had good reason to 
doubt whether or not it really would be business as usual but it failed  to disclose any such 
risk to its customers.
I think its important at this stage to reiterate  what  was happening between  HMRC and AXA 
at this point in time. As mentioned above, in May 2015 HMRC wanted to look further into 
how the pooled  growth from the Family SunTrust was allocated  because it was concerned 
that this facility wasnt in line with The Finance Act 2004. But its important to point out that 
while HMRC  had these  concerns  and temporarily stopped  registering  new schemes it did 
start registering them again not long after, which infers HMRCs concerns were allayed.  So, 
while AXA and HMRC  were indeed in discussions about this given HMRC resumed 
registration its reasonable  that this action  would have given AXA some  reassurance which it 
then passed onto its customers.
Ultimately, it was AXAs view that mattered here, and AXAs  reassuring comments  to the 
adviser in March 2016 dont seem to reflect an unreasonably held or disingenuous opinion at 
Ref: DRN21627305the time,  given where its discussions with HMRC had gotten to at that particular time.
Therefore, in this context  its not unreasonable that AXA made the statement it did in March 
2016.
In summary  therefore, given everything I have seen,  I currently  dont think AXA acted 
against the terms and conditions of the Scheme when it withdrew the flexibility  option. It 
seems to me that AXA consulted and thought considerably about withdrawing this option 
before it made its decision. And I am satisfied the decision  was made because of changes  in 
AXAs interpretation of pension rules and regulation rather than because  of the then 
upcoming sale to Phoenix.
Also, while I appreciate Mr W and Ms Bs frustration  that the facility  was with withdrawn, I am 
of the view that AXA provided the right information to make  them  aware the facility was not 
guaranteed and could  be withdrawn at any time (providing certain  criteria was met).Nor do
I think AXA provided misleading information to induce Mr W and Ms B to take out the 
investment.
AXA accepted my provisional findings.
Mr W and Ms B didnt accept my provisional findings and provided comments which  I have 
paraphrased below:
Mr W and Ms B have stated that the provisional  decision  relies on the legal advice that AXA 
obtained to negative effect.  The advice  has been  referenced several times in the provisional 
decision, but the dates  have not been  specified so it is unclear when the advice was 
received by AXA. They feel the precise  time at which the advice was received by AXA is 
important because of the assurance  that was given by AXA in March 2016  to the effect  that 
[AXA is] comfortable that the scheme continues  to comply with HMRC pension  rules. If 
AXA received the legal advice that finally prompted  it to withdraw the flexibility  option of the 
SunTrust before the date of this email, then it is difficult to justify  the conclusion  reached in 
the provisional decision.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And despite  Mr W and Ms Bs comments 
I am not persuaded to depart from my provisional  findings. I dont think the complaint should 
be upheld.
Given Mr W and Ms Bs comments I think it would be helpful to set out a timeline of when 
AXA obtained legal opinion regarding the workings  of the Family SunTrust  and broadly what 
the nature  of those opinions were. 
This is information I referred to in my provisional findings and they have come from the 
timeline of the development of the Family SunTrust  scheme (as mentioned above) which 
was provided by AXA as part of this complaint.
November 2006 first legal opinion obtained regarding  the feasibility of the Family 
SunTrust
December 2007 second legal opinion obtained  in light of new draft legislation from 
HMRC.
February 2009 third legal opinion obtained  ahead of planned full launch  of the 
SunTrust.
Ref: DRN21627306September 2013 legal  opinion obtained indicating that the environmental risk had 
increased but that the underlying legislation had not changed. In light of this AXA 
decided to continue  operation of the SunTrust  unchanged.
June 2015  HMRC raised  its concerns  over the model being used to allocate growth 
and that this was contrary to elements  of the Finance  Act 2004 (details set out 
above).
September 2015 again as set out above,  a meeting took place between AXA and 
HMRC.
October 2015 AXA issued communications to advisers that registration of the 
SunTrust had resumed but its discussions  with HMRC were  ongoing and all features 
of the product couldnt be guaranteed to remain into the future. Advisers were invited 
to withdraw applications from new clients.
October 2015 legal  opinion  obtained again  in response to specific points HMRC 
raised at meetings between itself and AXA in September 2015.
October 2015 AXA wrote to HMRC asking it to withdraw their objections  in light of its 
most recent legal  opinion.
January 2016  second communications issued to advisers informing them  that HMRC 
continued to investigate elements of the Family SunTrust and that registration of the 
new schemes was at their own risk.
May 2016 AXA decided to close the SunTrust  to new business.
June 2016  HMRC advised  AXA its investigations  were continuing.
July 2016  AXA obtained further  legal opinion. The finding of this was that the risk 
environment within the area of pension had changed and more notably that HMRC 
continued to investigate the SunTrust position  even after submission in October 2015 
of legal opinion  and evidence that supported  the flexibility  option of the SunTrust.
Later that month the Board  of AXA made  the decision that it was no longer 
appropriate to continue with the interpretation  that disproportionate  allocation  of 
growth was appropriate within the pension framework as it was at that time.
I agree  with Mr W and Ms B that if AXA had received negative legal advice about the 
SunTrust before it had sent the email to their adviser in March  2016 effectively reassuring 
them about  the SunTrust, I wouldnt be able to justify the conclusion  I had reached in my 
provisional decision.
However, as the timeline clearly illustrates,  the legal  opinion  which  essentially accepted 
there could  be issues  with the flexibility  option  of the SunTrust  because  of HMRCs 
continued investigations came in July 2016, some  four months  after the email 
Mr W and Ms B are relying on.
I am satisfied that previous legal opinion  obtained by AXA over the years was positive  in 
relation to the flexibility option of the SunTrust. So, I think it was reasonable for AXA to have 
advised its customers in March 2016 that the scheme continued to comply with HMRC 
pension rules. This reassurance came  with the previous warnings that this feature couldnt 
be guaranteed  to always remain  in place. And that it was only when confirmation was 
received in June  2016 that HMRC  continued with its investigations that led to the further 
legal opinion  in July 2016 and then the subsequent withdrawal of the feature.
I therefore remain of the view that what  AXA told Mr W and Ms Bs adviser in March 2016 
wasnt unreasonable nor was it disingenuous.
Further to this, Mr W and Ms B have not presented any further evidence to persuade  me that 
AXA breached the schemes  terms and conditions or that it misrepresented  information  by 
Ref: DRN21627307failing to disclose  the risk of the option being  withdrawn thereby inducing  their investment 
into the Family SunTrust scheme.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 May 2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2162730