K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains about issues shes experienced with a mattress  supplied with finance  from 
V12 Retail Finance  Limited.
background
In September  2018 Ms W was supplied with a mattress and entered into a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with V12.
Ms W says she ordered a Soft Medium mattress with a  comfort rating of 2. She says she 
received a mattress  with a comfort rating of 3, which is too hard.
Ms W says the mattress she received isnt what she ordered. She wants to return the 
mattress and cancel  the agreement.
In its final response V12 said it had spoken  to the retailer who had confirmed that the 
mattress which was sent to Ms W was what she ordered.
Ms W wasnt happy with V12s  response.  She says shes  spoken  to the manufacturer  of the 
mattress who has told her she was supplied with the wrong  mattress  but that it cant  help 
because shes not a customer of theirs.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the mattress  supplied to Ms W was 
the same  as the mattress she ordered  and that V12 had dealt  with her complaint fairly. 
Ms W didnt  agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms W ordered a Witley Silk 2000  mattress from the supplier. Although the 
mattress is no longer being sold by the supplier, Ive looked  at the information which  was 
obtained from the suppliers website by this service during  the investigation of this complaint.
The mattress is described as having a comfort rating of 2, which  means it is Soft Medium. 
Theres only one choice  of comfort rating  for this mattress on the website.
Ive looked at the websites of other suppliers who sell the Witley Silk mattress.  I can see that 
it is available  in other comfort ratings.  However,  Ms W ordered her mattress  from a supplier 
who only offered the mattress in a comfort rating of 2. 
Ive looked at the delivery note which Ms W received with the mattress.  The description  on 
the delivery note is a Witley  Silk 2000, which is what Ms W ordered.
I understand that Ms W feels that because there is a number 3 on the delivery note, the 
mattress has a comfort rating  of 3, rather than a comfort rating of 2 which  was what she 
ordered. Although  I agree  that the delivery note bears the number 3, I dont think  this has 
anything to do with the product description.  It wouldnt  have been possible for the supplier to 
Ref: DRN21116722send  a mattress with a comfort rating  of 3 because it only supplies the mattress with a 
comfort rating of 2.
I appreciate that the mattress isnt as soft as Ms W was hoping. But based on the available  
evidence, I cant say that Mrs W has been supplied with the wrong  mattress.  Im satisfied 
that shes been supplied with the mattress she ordered. Because  of this, Im unable  to say 
that theres been  a breach  of contract and I dont think  its reasonable for me to ask V12 to 
unwind the agreement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2111672