K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Provident Personal  Credit  Limited reported  incorrect information about  
his account to credit reference agencies (CRA). He wants the default  removed and 
compensation.
background
Mr W told us he agreed  a partial debt settlement with Provident  in January 2018 which 
should have resulted in the outstanding balance being removed and the account shown as 
partially settled. But he says Provident  continued to report incorrect information  showing an 
outstanding balance still remained. And even after the investigator issued a second view Mr 
W says the credit file is still incorrect as it shows a balance  as being owed throughout the 
period to August 2018.
Provident told us Mr W had made a payment in January 2018 to partially settle his account.  
It acknowledged his account should have been  updated to reflect this. But it said an error 
had meant  it reported  sustained arrears rather than that the account had been partially 
settled. It said it had paid £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
The investigator issued  two views but didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. He 
found Mr W had agreed  a partial  settlement  of a debt with Provident in January 2018.  But he 
said Provident had admitted inaccurate information had been reported  and thered been a 
delay in correcting  this. He recognised the correction had taken too long to put into effect 
despite repeated  calls from Mr W. And that Mr W hadnt always received the promised  
contact from Provident  during  that period. But as there was no evidence of actual financial 
loss he felt the £150 compensation paid was fair.
Mr W didnt think  all the aspects of his complaint had been considered so he wanted an 
ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr W is concerned that inaccurate information on his credit  file would 
potentially affect  future  access  to credit.  And its important that businesses report accurately  
the status of an account. And, if an error occurs, that steps are taken to correct it as soon as 
possible.
In this case the account defaulted in 2014  and it wasnt until January 2018 that a partial 
settlement was agreed. This should  have  resulted  in the outstanding  balance on the account  
being removed  - although the default would  still be recorded. 
Provident has admitted  errors and whilst it has taken action to notify  the CRA of the correct  
information there was a delay in this process. But Ive seen evidence that errors on the 
monthly arrears status codes cant be removed directly by Provident  - although they can be 
updated. And this is what happened in August 2018  - when the account balance finally 
showed the correct figure  (£0).
By notifying the CRA of the errors and then providing the correct  information I think  
Provident has done all it can reasonably  be expected  to do. It would  not be fair and 
Ref: DRN29253762reasonable to hold it responsible for the manner  in which information is recorded by a CRA - 
provided it has supplied  correct information. And the investigator has confirmed that hes 
been advised that once  an account has been  defaulted any arrears status notice has no 
additional adverse effect  on a credit rating. It remains open to Mr W to make  a separate 
complaint against  a CRA if he believes it is responsible for continuing to record  inaccurate 
information. 
The original  default  occurred in 2014 and partial settlement does not retrospectively alter 
this. So Im not going to ask Provident  to remove the record  of the default itself as this has 
been correctly  reported. And the latest August report accurately records  the partial 
settlement in January 2018.
Ive seen information provided by Mr W that hes recently had credit  declined - which  he puts 
down to the errors by Provident. But whilst Im sorry to see Mr W has experienced this 
disappointment I cant say its due to any error  by Provident. Lending  decisions are complex  
matters and are based on multiple factors. And given his credit file accurately shows the 
2014 default - and the later partial settlement - its just as possible that these factors have 
influenced that decision.
In summary,  I find that whilst Provident has made  errors the compensation offered is fair and 
reasonable. So I shant be asking it to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2925376