K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly cancelled her motor  
insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
Ms G had a telematics (black box) policy with UKI. The black box stopped providing UKI with 
data. On three occasions UKI emailed  Ms G about  the lack of data but Ms G didn't receive 
those emails and didn't  reply. UKI then wrote to her to say that if she didnt  contact it would 
cancel her policy. Ms G didnt receive the letters, so didnt contact UKI and it cancelled her 
policy.
Ms G complained. She explained that she had changed her email address  and so hadn't 
received UKIs emails. Similarly she had moved  house and so hadn't  received the letters 
about the policy cancellation.
UKI thought it had cancelled the policy reasonably. But it said it had previously received an 
email from Ms G from another email address but hadn't queried that. So it paid her £50 as a 
goodwill gesture.
Ms G brought her complaint to us. Our adjudicator didnt think  UKI had done anything wrong. 
Ms G didnt agree so her complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Ms Gs made a number of points. But in this decision I will focus in 
what I see as being the key issues.
Ms Gs email address
I've seen that UKI emailed Ms G about  her black box at the email address she gave it when  
she took out the policy. And I haven't seen any evidence that Ms G asked UKI to update her 
email address following that. 
UKI did receive an email  from Ms G - around nine months before it cancelled her policy -  
which she sent from an email address other  than the one she had provided  previously. I've 
seen that email and unless  the user clicks on Ms Gs name in the sent from box, it doesn't  
automatically show the email address that the message  came  from. So, I dont think  UKI 
would have been automatically  aware it was different  to the email address they had on their 
system. But Ms G didnt ask UKI to update her contact details with a new email  address. So I 
don't think  UKI had reason  to do that. And in those circumstances  I think it was reasonable 
that UKI continued  to try and contact Ms G at the email address shed provided previously. 
UKI paid Ms G £50 compensation  as a goodwill gesture but that wasn't something it was 
required to do. So I don't think  the fact it made this payment means that it should have 
updated  Ms  Gs email address.
Ref: DRN23340022Ms Gs home address
Ms G said that she both phoned and wrote to UKI to say that shed changed address. But 
aside from her comments theres no evidence to support that statement. UKI doesn't have 
any record of Ms G phoning it to say that shed changed address. And Ms G isnt now able 
to prove  that she did so. If she had spoken to UKI and told it of her new address I would 
have expected it to update her details  there  and then. Thats because its usual in the 
insurance industry for insurers to find that different  addresses will present a different risk of 
the policyholder  needing  to make a claim on the policy. And a failure to notify an insurer  of a 
change of address  can invalidate  the policy. So Insurers treat a change of address seriously.
Also, a change of address  will often result in either  a refund or an additional premium 
becoming due. So most  insurers  Im aware of will change an address over the phone. They  
will then update the policy and issue new policy documents to reflect  that change  of address. 
But that didnt  happen here.
Ms G said that she also wrote to UKI to tell it about her change  of address. But again theres 
no evidence beyond Ms Gs comments of that happening. So on balance  I dont  think  that 
UKI did ever receive a letter from Ms G telling it shed changed address. So I don't think it 
did anything wrong  in writing to the address it held on file which Ms G had provided.
Ms Gs also said that UKI should have sent its cancellation warning letter by recorded 
delivery, as if it had done so it would have received the undelivered letter. But UKIs policy 
says that it will write  to Ms G at the latest address it held for her. And thats what  it did. The 
policy doesn't say that it will send such a letter by recorded delivery. So I don't think  it was 
under any obligation to do so. 
was the cancellation fair
Ms Gs said that having a policy  cancelled will affect her ability to find policies and the cost of 
those for years  to come. I agree that might be the case. But I dont think thats because UKI 
did anything wrong.  Ms Gs policy required her to tell UKI if she changed address. It also 
said that if it didnt  receive  data from the black box policy for 28 days  it may cancel the 
policy. But UKI didnt  receive any notification from Ms G that shed changed address. Neither 
did it receive black box data for some  time.  While the black  box issue  wasnt  Ms Gs fault,  
UKI did what it could to contact her about that. But it didnt ever receive a response.  And in 
those circumstances  Ms Gs policy terms allowed UKI to cancel it. So as I think  UKI 
cancelled the policy in line with its terms I think its decision to do so was reasonable.
I dont think that Ms G deliberately didnt update UKI with her new details. But given that UKI 
cancelled her policy in line with its terms and conditions I dont think it would be fair for me to 
instruct it to reverse that decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Joe Scott 
Ref: DRN23340023ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2334002