K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Yorkshire Building  Society, Chelsea Building Society at the time, 
(Chelsea) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in connection with a mortgage that started in 2001. From 
what I have, its likely  the policy was sold at the same time and provided cover  for Mr C for 
accident, sickness and unemployment  subject  to its exclusions and limitations. Due to the 
time that has passed, its not clear how Mr and Mrs C applied  for the PPI and the mortgage  
but Mr and Mrs C have  said they were sold the policy by phone.
The PPI cost £18.30 a month, with payments starting in 2003.  Chelsea says the first two 
years cover  was routinely  offered free, and this could be why Mr and Mrs C didnt start 
paying for the PPI until two years after the mortgage  started. No PPI payments were made 
after the mortgage was redeemed later that year, so only five premiums  were paid in total 
over the life of the policy, amounting to a little under £92 in PPI payments  in total.
Chelsea cant say what the PPI benefit was, but the mortgage repayment when premiums 
started to be paid was around £386  including the PPI. From what Ive seen  elsewhere,  this is 
the benefit that wouldve  been secured by a PPI premium  costing  £18.30. In 2001  when the 
mortgage first started, the repayment was around  £508 inclusive of certain insurances.
Mr C was the higher  earner and was employed at the time as a fleet manager. Hes told us 
he was entitled  to less than six but at least three months redundancy pay. I think  it likely he 
was also entitled  to statutory sick pay. Mrs C was also employed and has told us she was 
entitled to 12 months  or more full sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr and Mrs C also had life 
cover. From  what theyve  told us, Mr C was in good  health and hadnt  had any health issues. 
Chelsea has sent evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
Chelsea failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Chelsea shouldve told Mr and Mrs C 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN29489322The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Chelsea should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN29489323The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Chelsea, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Chelsea at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note under the Building Societies Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
This sale took place  before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Chelsea 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN29489324Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Chelsea gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and Chelsea,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Chelsea had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Chelsea hasnt any of the paperwork 
relating to Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application  or the PPI sale. It isnt too surprising  that 
Chelsea no longer  has this paperwork, given  how long ago the mortgage started and also 
how long ago the mortgage  was redeemed.
Mr and Mrs C have said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of their mortgage package. I give what they say some weight,  but also their recollections 
were set out for us over fifteen years after the sale - so it wouldnt  be surprising if they didnt 
recall everything in detail.  With this in mind, these recollections on their own arent enough to 
make me think Chelsea just included PPI without giving Mr and Mrs C a choice  about  it.
There isnt very much  to go on, but I havent seen anything else to make  me think  the PPI 
was just included  with the mortgage without Mr and Mrs C having a choice. Chelseas notes 
from when the mortgage  started  do refer to the PPI (as ASU meaning accident,  sickness 
and unemployment) and say the applicant was taking full ASU.  A note like this, saying 
PPI was going to be taken,  wouldnt  seem  to have much purpose if cover was just included 
with mortgages  like Mr and Mrs Cs as a matter of course. So I think this gives some 
indication the PPI wasnt automatically  included  in mortgages like Mr and Mrs Cs.
Also, the PPI terms and conditions say that to take the cover an application form needed to 
be competed. So it looks like the PPI application process involved completing a separate  
form to apply for the PPI. I think the use of a separate PPI application form would  tend to 
indicate the PPI was something separate from the mortgage.
Overall, what  I have   which, as Ive said, isnt much due to the time thats  passed   isnt 
enough to make me think Chelsea just included the PPI with Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage and 
didnt given them a choice. What little I have  from the time tends to point the other way  to 
the PPI having  been  optional and Mr and Mrs C having decided  to take full cover  for Mr C.
Ref: DRN29489325Mr and Mrs C, in what they sent asking for a decision, referred to PPI being added without 
their agreement and Ive thought carefully  about  all they have said.  But, in the light of what 
Ive said above  and for broadly the same reasons, I think it unlikely Chelsea set up the PPI 
without first getting the agreement of Mr and Mrs C  but it wouldnt be surprising if this is 
something they dont  recall now, given how long ago the sale was. Id add that I havent  
anything to suggest that Chelsea wouldnt normally have given customers  like Mr and Mrs C 
a choice about the PPI and got their agreement to the cover before setting it up.
Mr and Mrs C havent said anything to make me think  they were  pressured into opting for the 
cover. Taking everything into account, and with all Ive said above in mind,  I think its more 
likely Mr and Mrs C knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did Chelsea  provide  advice?
Chelsea says it didnt  provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs C havent  said Chelsea did 
give advice. With all this in mind,  Im persuaded Chelsea didnt provide advice. This means  
Chelsea didnt have  to check  if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
Instead, Chelsea had to give Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if Mr C 
were unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have 
taken the PPI without  any sense  of what it was for and of how much  the premium might be.
But I havent anything  from the time to show whether Chelsea gave sufficient information 
about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or the exclusions or limitations before 
Mr and Mrs C agreed  to the PPI. So I dont  think Chelsea gave them  sufficient, appropriate 
and timely  information  to enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take the 
PPI, including  drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and the significant limitations and exclusions.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN29489326-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  
While I cant be certain  what  a court  would  say  I think  its unlikely a court  would find this 
extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested.  And, 
taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of good industry practice 
applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  Chelsea ought 
to have done either. 
what effect did Chelseas  shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Chelsea  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs C. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Chelsea done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs C thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C have suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, Ive nothing to show Chelsea told them  the exact premium at the 
point they applied. Having said that, I dont think it likely they wouldve  agreed to the PPI 
without some idea of the approximate cost. I also take into account the policy  cost relative  to 
their monthly mortgage payment, the likely  policy benefit and the fact what they were  paying 
was to help protect  their mortgage. Overall,  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C wouldve found 
the cost unacceptable if they had been  given  the exact figure  when they agreed to the PPI.
In addition, what I have  doesnt show that Chelsea made clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs C 
would get back  in return in the event they made a successful claim. But Ive nothing to show 
they had expectations about  the policys monthly  benefit that were significantly different to 
what it actually did pay  and it looks like the likely  benefit  when  they started to pay for the 
PPI was in line with their monthly repayment  on the mortgage account. Overall, Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs Cs decision to take the policy was affected by any information 
failings relating to the monthly benefit amount.
Ref: DRN29489327Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded disability claims resulting from any existing health issue  Mr C was 
aware of at the policy start or resulting from any health issue hed received advice or 
treatment for in the 12 months  before the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr C wasnt  
a permanent employee; 
The requirement that, to qualify for a disability  claim, Mr C be prevented,  by a health 
issue, from doing his own work and any similar  work his knowledge,  training  or ability  
reasonably qualified him to do; and
Rather than being paid for the remaining mortgage term, payment of the monthly benefit 
would be limited  to a maximum period  probably 12 months.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs C should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr C 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any existing 
health issues and he was in permanent employment, for example. So, I think  Mr and Mrs C 
still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs C from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs C, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs C had known they could only claim for disability if Mr Cs health prevented him 
doing his own work  and any similar  work  his knowledge, training or ability reasonably  
qualified him to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what to do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  its possible they may not have been  
overly concerned given  that if Mr C were prevented (by disability) from doing his own work, 
the chances he would be able to do any similar work would also, in all probability, be limited.
Chelsea may not have  told Mr and Mrs C any claim they made  would be limited to a 
maximum period  probably  12 months. This may have differed from what they expected 
and mightve hoped for. But they wouldve been notified of this restriction  before the policy 
started  because the length of the restriction was defined as the period shown on the policy 
schedule  so Mr and Mrs C wouldve received a schedule setting out the maximum number  
of monthly benefit  payments they could receive  for any one claim.  
Ref: DRN29489328I also bear in mind that the PPI still paid benefits for longer than Mr C wouldve received full 
pay for if he were sick - and very likely his redundancy entitlement  wasnt  worth as many 
months pay as the number of months  the PPI benefit would continue being paid. I say this 
because what I have  suggests Mr C was only entitled to statutory pay for sickness and hes 
told us he was entitled to less than six months  redundancy pay. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C wouldve  still thought  the policy  
would be of benefit to them and help them  manage  should Mr C have become unable  to 
work in the circumstances the policy covered. The policy allowed multiple  claims to be made 
- and by helping Mr and Mrs C with their mortgage  costs, the policy  benefit wouldve  made  it 
less likely their home would be placed  at risk at what could be a difficult time for them if Mr C 
were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs C would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr C were made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs C would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN29489329That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Chelsea should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation,  as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs C think Chelsea misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Chelseas statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Chelsea 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Chelsea gave Mr and Mrs C, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2001 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Chelsea negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Chelsea had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im grateful  to Mr and Mrs C for all their points and comments.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2948932