K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about various  issues which arose  in connection with his account  with 
Revolut Ltd. He complains that his debit cards  didnt work, Revoluts anti-money laundering 
(AML) requirements were too strict,  their currency exchange rates  were  wrong  and were  not 
transparent, and about related matters.
background
In 2019 Mr B complained to Revolut about  the following  matters:
Its AML requirements were too onerous. He said Revolut had asked him to provide 
15 years worth of pay slips.
His card payments had been  blocked in August  2018.
Some pending card payments  which had not been processed by the merchant had 
not been refunded within 30 days.  He had had to ask for them to be done manually.
He challenged  the exchange rate Revolut had applied  when he had traded one 
currency for another, and said that Revolut  had not followed his instructions. Also, 
Revolut had not proved to him that it had used  the correct  exchange rate, and had 
given him contradictory information  about this subject.
Revolut had told him that currency speculation  or arbitrage is prohibited, but there 
was no definition of what this meant in its terms and conditions, and its explanation 
was unclear and contradictory.
Communicating with Revolut takes  too long (but he has since decided  not to pursue 
this point).
Revolut said that the delay in refunding  some  pending payments was a known issue which it 
was working to rectify.  It apologised,  and refunded  one monthly subscription payment. But it 
did not accept  the other criticisms. It said its terms and conditions said that Mr B had to 
comply with its requests  for information. His card payments had only been blocked  because 
of things Mr B himself had done  (such as blocking  his own card, or entering the wrong expiry 
date). It was its customers responsibility to ensure that they were satisfied with the offered 
rate before entering  a transaction.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Mr B brought this complaint to our Service.  
Subsequently, Resolut  said Mr Bs transaction had been carried out automatically,  when the 
exchange rate had passed his pre-determined  level. This had occurred immediately at the 
start of the weekend,  when Revolut applied a mark-up to the rate, which had caused the rate 
to pass Mr Bs chosen rate. It added that it had not said or decided that Mr B had breached  
its terms and conditions  about currency speculation, and had not suspended  or reviewed his 
account.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She accepted Revoluts explanations, and did 
not think it had acted unfairly.  Mr B asked for an ombudsmans decision. He pointed  out two 
statements by Revolut  which he said appeared to contradict each other.
Another ombudsman  began to look into this case,  but he has since  left the Service.  I have 
however read all of the correspondence  between him and both parties.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN24327912exchange rates
I will begin with the exchange rate issue, because Mr B told us this was the most important 
matter to him.
During a week in early  2019, Mr B instructed Revolut to exchange  one currency to another 
when the exchange rate dropped to a certain level. From Monday to Friday, Revolut did not 
apply a mark-up to its exchange  rates.  But at weekends,  Revolut  applied  a 1% mark-up to 
the exchange rate. That is normal industry practice,  and it was mentioned  in Revoluts terms 
and conditions and in a related document about  Revoluts  prices. This mark-up took the 
exchange rate some  way past the level chosen  by Mr B, and so at one minute past midnight  
on Saturday morning  the transaction was automatically carried out, at a rate somewhat lower 
than Mr B had intended.
I have seen screenshots (provided  to us by Mr B) in which Revolut explains to its customers  
how this works, before  a transaction is set up. They say that the rate at which the exchange 
takes place may not be equal  to your target value due to market volatility.  That was not the 
reason in this instance: the reason was that the rate jumped  by one per cent at the start of 
the weekend.  But the consequence  was the same, and it was a foreseeable result of the 1% 
mark-up.
The risk of market volatility is mitigated by the fact (also  explained in the screenshots)  that if, 
in the short  time between  the target rate being  hit and the transaction actually being 
executed, the exchange  rate moves from the customers  target rate by 2.5% or more (this 
figure has since been reduced to 0.75%), then the transaction will not be carried  out. So the 
impact of the 1% mark-up coming into effect was well within  this tolerance  at the time. (And 
the difference between the rate Mr B wanted and the rate he got was still within  the new, 
reduced tolerance.) So I think it was reasonably foreseeable that the transaction  might  be 
carried out at the rate which was applied,  instead  of the target  rate.
Mr B converted 20,429 Swiss francs into another currency. He has seen a document which  
appears to say that he converted  2,042,900  francs, but this is just the way that information is 
recorded there. He didnt  actually exchange two million francs. He received the correct  
amount of the other  currency.
Mr B asked Revolut about where  it gets it exchange rates from, or how it calculates  them.  He 
complains that he received two conflicting answers  about this. In its final response letter, 
Revolut told him this:
The  website investing.com is fully external  to Revolut  and its data doesn't  
represent or reflect any currency exchange  rates applied by Revolut. It is, therefore, 
indeed possible that the exchange rates visible on the said website would  be 
discrepant to the Revolut  exchange rates.
Later, in a chat room discussion with a Revolut  agent, he says he was told this:
We use lnterbank exchange  rates, which are provided also to lnvesting.com
At first glance, these comments do seem to contradict each other,  but only because neither 
of them  gives the full story. Revolut has since explained that the exchange rates  published 
by that website are the average  between  the bid rates and the offer rates   known  as mid-
market rates. Mid-market rates are not used by Revolut for transactions.  But the bid rates 
Ref: DRN24327913and offer rates are interbank rates, which are provided to that website and also,  separately,  
to Revolut. Revolut  gets them from a third party, Morningstar, not from investing.com.  
Revoluts rate for transactions of the kind made  by Mr B was the interbank offer rate until the 
weekend, when the mark-up was added. I accept that explanation, and I think  that answers 
Mr Bs point  about the comments quoted  above.
AML measures
I can deal with the other issues  shortly.  I have  read the messages in which Mr B and 
Resoluts agent  discussed the evidence he needed to provide to pass Resoluts AML 
checks. Nowhere did the agent actually ask him for 15 years  worth of payslips or tax 
receipts. She only asked  for three months  worth. Initially,  the evidence  Mr B provided  was 
not enough to persuade Resolut to increase  his limit. So the agent  sent him the following 
message (on 12 September 2017  at 19:46). (I have redacted his former occupation to 
preserve his anonymity.)
On the basis of provided documents, we can't increase the limit. We will need to 
see statements from your saving account with a balance  and your name on it. You 
also need to provide us with P60/tax receipts for the time you worked as a [former 
occupation].
Mr B had worked in his old job for 15 years, so he interpreted this as a request for payslips 
or tax receipts for the whole 15 year period. But thats not what the agent  said.  I think she 
just meant  three months worth from the time he held that job. I am reinforced in my opinion 
by the fact that when Mr B provided the payslips in a format  that Revolut  couldnt  open, 
Revolut asked him to provide three monthly payslips  from the period  June  2013  to May 
2014. 12 hours after that, Resolut increased his limit. So I think this matter  resulted from a 
genuine misunderstanding, and that once three  payslips were  provided in a format that 
Resolut could read, the matter was resolved in a timely manner.
card payments
I have seen no evidence  that the card payments which were blocked  were blocked as a 
result of an error by Resolut. So I accept Resoluts explanation for the blocks. However,  the 
fact that some payments which were not processed  by the merchants were  not automatically  
refunded after 30 days is clearly Resoluts error, and Resolut admitted as much when Mr B 
complained. It should not have been necessary  for Mr B to have to contact Resolut to ask for 
those payments to be refunded. Nevertheless,  as soon as Mr B asked for them to be 
refunded they were  refunded without  delay  within three and a half minutes. So I think  
Resoluts apology and refund of his monthly  subscription fee was fair compensation for that.
speculation / arbitrage
There has currently been no impact  on Mr B caused by Resolut  reminding  him that its terms 
and conditions prohibit currency speculation  on a personal account. His account has not 
been suspended, nor has Resolut threatened to suspend it. But I appreciate that he is 
concerned about  inadvertently contravening this rule by mistake, because he does not think  
the rule is clear.
Its true that the terms and conditions do not give a precise definition  of the prohibited  
conduct, or a specific, certain number of transactions which  are permitted,  which may not be 
exceeded. But they dont have to: the terms and conditions are not a criminal code. Instead, 
the boundary  between  what  is acceptable and what is not is a grey area, to allow  for some 
Ref: DRN24327914flexibility of interpretation  in light of the facts of each case. Mr B hasnt broken the rules yet, 
as far as Resolut knows, but if he is concerned about this being a risk in the future then 
I would recommend that he opens  a business account.
I wish I could be more helpful than that, but it is not within my remit to consider a 
hypothetical scenario that has not yet come to pass  i.e., whether Resolut would be right or 
wrong to suspend Mr Bs account based on his current or recent volume of transactions,  
when resolute has taken no such action. That question will have to be decided in a future 
complaint, if such a thing  comes to pass.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2432791