K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that a policy he believed was an endowment  he took out through 
Barclays Bank UK PLC in connection with an interest-only mortgage of £157,000  was, in 
fact, a decreasing  term assurance (DTA) policy that provided life and critical illness  cover  
only. 
When he expected  the policy to provide a maturity value in January 2019  that would enable  
him to repay the mortgage  loan,  he was told the policy was due to expire with no value.
Mr W added  that:
the mortgage offer made  it clear that, for interest-only mortgages, a separate  
savings policy needed to be arranged;
the lender  wouldnt  have  approved the mortgage  without a suitable policy  being  in 
place and this condition hadnt been complied with;
If hed known he was being recommended a life assurance policy, he would  have 
invested the monthly premium elsewhere  which would have more than paid off the 
loan. Otherwise, he would have made every effort  to pay off the mortgage  during the 
term of the loan. During his life he has had several mortgage which have been 
secured by either an endowment or a pension  policy; 
As the DTA policy doesnt  pay a maturity value, he is left with a financial  shortfall on 
his mortgage.
Mr W has requested  Barclays to repay  his mortgage  with interest, plus compensation for the 
stress, anxiety and depression this matter has caused him.
background
In January 2007, Mr W received advice from Barclays  to take out a DTA policy  providing life 
and critical illness of £157,000 on a reducing basis over 12 years  for his newly-arranged 
interest-only loan.
While the adviser recorded that Mr W already held two policies providing life cover on a level 
basis level cover, she also documented that he had a shortfall in life cover and critical illness  
cover of £157,000  for the new loan and recommended  him to take out a policy that provided  
a level of cover equal to his total borrowing. 
As it was, the two policies Mr W already held were  mortgage endowments,  providing life 
cover and targeted maturity values  of £62,000 and £68,000  in February 2019 and June 
2019 respectively.      
I issued a provisional decision in May 2019  in which  I thought this policy was unsuitable for 
Mr W as it didnt meet his obvious  need to repay his mortgage in 12 years time, or on his 
earlier death. I, therefore, proposed that Mr W should receive redress  for the excess  cost of 
the DTA policy over the monthly premiums he would have paid to a 12-year mortgage 
endowment policy with life cover  and a targeted maturity value in January 2019 of £27,000, 
plus the actual  maturity value such a policy would  have  provided, plus interest. 
I invited both Barclays and Mr W to comment on my provisional findings, a copy of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN20411442developments
In response, Mr W accepted my provisional  view and had no further points to raise.
Barclays replied that:
Mr W did take advice from a mortgage specialist to repay the mortgage on death  or 
diagnosis of a critical illness. He was not asked whether he needed  a repayment 
vehicle for the additional borrowing hes taken in 2004; neither did he ask for advice 
on a repayment  vehicle; 
the adviser he dealt  with was only authorised to recommend mortgage protection 
products and, by 2007, Barclays didnt market mortgage endowments. So, if Mr W 
had wanted advice about a policy that would repay  his mortgage in 12 years time,  he 
would have been referred to an independent  adviser. Having taken out two mortgage 
endowments previously,  it seems unlikely he thought he was being recommended  an 
endowment policy  in January 2007; 
besides, as part of the fact-finding  exercise,  Mr W wasnt  asked about his attitude to 
risk or the target amounts on the endowment policies he already held. As such, it 
couldnt see how he could  have mistaken  a discussion about his protection needs for 
advice to take out an endowment policy;
Mr W wasnt a first time buyer  - hed taken out endowment mortgages before. But, 
when he arranged additional borrowing on an interest-only  basis in 2004, he didnt 
arrange a repayment  vehicle for this increased  loan. Neither did he request advice on 
a repayment vehicle for further  borrowing he took in December 2007. Mr W knew  
what an endowment  was, having  taken  out such policies twice  before, and received 
policy schedules setting out their benefits and projected maturity  values;
the documentation he would have received for the DTA policy was significantly 
different in that it confirmed that cover  was provided on a decreasing  basis  that paid 
a claim value if he died or suffered a critical illness.  There  was no mention of 
projected maturity values after 12 years or that he would  receive periodic re-
projection letters;
Mr W had taken borrowing with no repayment vehicle before and couldnt have 
mistaken the DTA policy for an endowment  and wouldnt have arranged a rate switch  
on his borrowing without discussing repayment options;
it accepts the policy  Mr W took out wasnt suitable because he may not have needed 
life cover at all, let alone cover on a decreasing basis. But it was appropriate to 
recommend critical illness cover, albeit on a level basis  and, as this would  have cost 
substantially more  than the DTA policy, Mr W has suffered  no financial loss;
my provisional decision to construct a 12-year mortgage endowment  policy to target 
a mortgage loan of £27,000  doesnt provide Mr W critical illness cover,  which hed 
confirmed as a requirement;
as it was, Barclays didnt market endowment policies in 2007  and its doubtful  if Mr W 
could have obtained such a policy at that time given the widespread publicity and 
regulatory interest around mortgage  endowment policies. Therefore, it cant 
implement the redress methodology I proposed.
When I suggested to both Mr W and Barclays that redress should  be altered to exclude the 
premium he would have  paid to 12-year mortgage endowment policy  in 2007 and the 
potential maturity value  it would have provided,  Barclays responded to say that:
the advisor that Mr W spoke to on the telephone would have only taken information  
about the non-advised rate switch  application  and talked  about  pure protection 
Ref: DRN20411443needs. The onus  was on Mr W to have told the advisor if he had existing cover  
protection elsewhere. Its evident Mr W did confirm details about his existing  Income 
Protection. The advisor is unlikely to have  known about repayment vehicles, as this is 
a specialist area that would have required advice to have been given by a qualified 
individual; 
it agrees that the DTA policy gave Mr W too much life cover and too little critical 
illness cover. But my latest proposal  doesnt  give Mr W any critical illness  cover  at all 
throughout the 12 years. Had he wanted this cover for all his borrowing,  plus a LTA 
policy for £27,000, he would have required two new policies, which  in turn would 
have been even more expensive for him;
if Mr W had requested  a repayment  vehicle for his mortgage, he would  have either 
seen a financial planning advisor or another specialist to discuss the options 
available for him. This most certainly would have  resulted  in him being  told to take a 
repayment mortgage, taking into account the known issues connected to 
endowments at that time;
the alternative might have been  an ISA mortgage but its not sure if it was marketing 
this type of loan in 2007.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  Mr W arranged the re-mortgage loan in January 2007  shortly after the discounted 
interest rate ended on the previous mortgage  hes arranged in late 2004 and contacted a 
Barclays mortgage specialist for advice. 
But theres no evidence  which  confirms what advice he requested - whether it was an 
appropriate vehicle  to repay  the loan after 12 years or to repay the loan if he died or suffered 
a critical illness during its term. Given section six of his mortgage illustration emphasised the 
importance of making  separate arrangements to repay  the capital loan at the end of the 
mortgage term, Im inclined to believe that Mr Ws motive in contacting Barclays  was to set 
up a suitable repayment vehicle. 
As it was, Im told he dealt  with an adviser who was only authorised to give advice on 
protection products for mortgage loans. But theres no evidence she disclosed her status, or 
the restrictions on the advice she could give, to Mr W at the time, although the paperwork 
she completed was consistent  with the advice she was authorised to give. 
But its not clear whether  she had sight of the mortgage illustration confirming that Mr W had 
arranged an interest-only  mortgage of £157,000 over 12 years at a variable rate of interest  of 
5.17 per cent per annum,  for which his monthly repayments would be £675.
But she did record these very same details on the mortgage factfind she completed  with 
him. So, whether  she was shown the mortgage  illustration or not, this information alone 
ought to have told her that his mortgage  was an interest-only loan even  if he didnt make 
this clear. As such, it seems reasonable that she would have referred Mr W to a colleague  
who was authorised to advise  on interest-only  mortgages and repayment vehicles for this 
type of loan. 
Instead, she proceeded to advise Mr W as if hed arranged his mortgage  as a capital 
repayment loan,  conceivably because her status and the mortgage factfind she used led 
Ref: DRN20411444Mr W into considering how he might  repay  his mortgage if he died or suffered a critical 
illness, but not if he survived the term of the loan. 
Moreover, having recorded  that Mr W already  held two policies  offering  life cover on a level 
basis he would like to use to protect the new loan (even though the policies were mortgage 
endowments that also provided targeted  maturity  values), she disregarded the cover  these 
two policies provided by advising Mr W to take out a policy that provided life cover  (as well 
as critical illness cover)  of £157,000.  But, if Mr W did require life cover, he only needed level 
cover of £27,000.  
In any event, the policy was set up to provide cover on a reducing basis  over 12 years.  So, 
while Mr W was over-insured for life cover for most of the mortgage term, he would become 
progressively under-insured for critical illness cover.  
I do accept it was appropriate for Mr W to consider protecting his mortgage against  critical 
illness. Thats not to say Mr W objective wasnt, first and foremost, to repay the capital loan 
after 12 years, or on his earlier  death,  and, for that, he required a policy providing life cover  
and a targeted maturity value of £27,000 to compliment the two endowment policies he 
already held.
Barclays has said that, as Mr W had taken  out endowment policies or personal pensions  in 
connection with previous  interest-only loans, he ought to have  known from the policy 
documentation he received that the DTA policy was not an endowment.  I understand this 
point. But, at the same time, I think this unfairly  shifts the responsibility for taking out an 
inappropriate policy for his mortgage  to Mr W because he ought to have known from past 
experience that the advice was incorrect. 
In almost every respect, the policy Mr W was recommended was unsuitable  for the mortgage  
hed arranged - it provided  too much life cover  for the loan, too little critical illness cover over 
time and no means  of repaying the loan at all if he survived the 12 year term. Given Mr W 
requested advice to insure his mortgage loan, he was entitled to receive  advice that 
appropriately accounted for the type of mortgage hed taken out.
     
I do understand that, if Mr W also wanted critical illness cover,  a policy  that provided 
comprehensive cover  would have been a level term assurance at a cost of £650.00 per 
month. As such, Barclays  argues that he hasnt suffered  a financial loss as the incorrect  
policy he was sold cost him £480.00  per month.  But I dont think  this considers that the 
policy he was recommended was almost  entirely  unsuitable for his primary objective of 
repaying his capital loan after 12 years.
Therefore, my view remains that, in being recommended the DTA policy,  Mr W received 
unsuitable advice  and should be compensated for the financial loss he may have suffered as 
a result;  namely  it left him unable fully to repay his mortgage in January 2019.
But, I do agree its not possible to say what the value of a maturing 12-year mortgage  
endowment policy (or the value  of an alternative investment) would have been in January 
2019. As such,  and for the purpose of resolving this complaint, I think redress should 
disregard the possible maturity value of a 12-year  mortgage endowment and the premiums  
he would  have paid to fund the investment  element  of such a policy. 
Instead, the premiums  Mr W paid to the DTA policy, less the cost of a level term assurance 
policy providing life cover of £27,000,  would be the amount he could have contributed as a 
Ref: DRN20411445regular premium to an investment vehicle to repay the amount outstanding on his mortgage 
in January 2019. 
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr W redress of A + B, where:
A = the monthly premium Mr W paid to the DTA policy from time-to-time, less the 
monthly premium he would have been  required to pay from time-to-time to a 12-year 
level term assurance (LTA)  policy  providing  life cover of £27,000  from January 2007  
to January 2019;
B = interest on the net premiums in A at the rate of eight per cent per annum  simple  
from January 2007 to-date.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers its legally  obliged to deduct  income  tax from the interest  
calculated in B, it must send a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Mr W may reclaim 
any tax overpaid from HM Revenue and Customs,  if his tax status allows him to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20411446COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr W has complained that a policy he believed  was an endowment  he took out through Barclays 
Bank UK PLC in connection  with an interest-only mortgage of approximately £157,000 was, in fact, a 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  providing  only life and critical illness cover.
In November 2018, when  he expected the policy  to provide a maturity value that enabled him to repay  
the loan, he was told the policy would expire  with no value.
Mr W added  that:
the mortgage offer made it clear that, for interest-only  mortgages, a separate  savings policy 
needed to be arranged;
the lender wouldnt have approved the mortgage without  a suitable policy being  in place and 
this condition hadnt  been complied  with;
If hed known he was being recommended a life assurance policy, he would  have invested the 
monthly premium  elsewhere which  would have more than paid off the loan. Otherwise, he 
would have  made every  effort to pay off the mortgage during the term of the loan. During his 
life he has had several mortgage which have  been secured by either an endowment or 
pension policy; 
As the DTA policy doesnt pay a maturity value, he is left with a financial shortfall, which had 
to be paid by November 2018.
Mr W has requested  Barclays to repay his mortgage  with interest, plus compensation for the stress, 
anxiety and depression this matter has caused him.
    
background
In January 2007, Mr W was in his early 50s and single with no financial dependents. He was self-
employed and wanted  to rate switch  an interest only mortgage of £157,000  hed taken out in October 
2004 over 14 years.
Mr W arranged the loan of £157,000 through Barclays on an interest-only basis over 11 years and 10 
months to replace his previous loan on more favourable  terms.
The mortgage  offer confirmed  that Mr W would  still owe the original amount he borrowed at the end of 
the mortgage term and that he would need to make separate arrangements to repay this debt in 
November 2018. The offer stressed that: It is important to ensure that you have a suitable savings 
plan in place and to check regularly that your savings plan is on track  to repay this mortgage  at the 
end of the term.  
But it wasnt a condition of borrowing for Mr W to take out such a policy - the mortgage agreement 
only required  him to take out buildings insurance, and not necessarily  through  the lender.
Nevertheless, it seems Mr W did receive  advice  from Barclays about  protecting  this loan and he 
confirmed he would want the loan cleared  if he suffered  a critical  illness, or died. But, having  recorded  
that Mr W already held level life cover provided by two policies, the adviser calculated that he required 
life and critical  illness cover  of £157,000 on a decreasing basis over 12 years in a section of the 
factfind that warned: Decreasing cover should  only apply to capital repayment mortgages.  The 
premium to this policy  was £480 per month.      
In response to questions as to whether or not Mr W required accident,  sickness and unemployment 
cover for the loan, the adviser recorded  that Mr W already held a suitable  policy providing an income  
of £433 per month, leaving  him a shortfall in cover of £873 per month.
Ref: DRN20411447But, when asked if he would suffer a fall in income due to accident, sickness or unemployment, Mr W 
confirmed that his business  would continue to run in his absence and he would receive an income 
from it. Accordingly, Mr W stated that he didnt need to insure against an income shortfall in these 
circumstances.
And, yet, the adviser confirmed her recommendation  for Mr W to take out life and critical illness cover  
of £157,000 on a decreasing basis because he will have  difficulty  in maintaining  the mortgage 
payments in the event of death or critical illness.
In an application for a further  mortgage loan of £50,000 in December 2007, it was noted  that the 
decreasing term assurance (DTA) policy  Mr W was recommended in January  2007 was, in fact, an 
endowment policy. Also, the two existing policies  held by Mr W that provided level life cover were 
endowment policies  hed taken out in June 1996 and February 1999, providing targeted maturity 
values as well of £68,000  and £62,000 in June 2019 and February 2019 respectively.  As it was, the 
first policy gave Mr W a maturity value of £50,675.
In response, Barclays said Mr W would  have known the type of policy he had been recommended  
from the mortgage factfind completed by the adviser. There  is no condition in the 2007 mortgage  
agreement (or in 2004  agreement)  for Mr W to take out an endowment or similar savings policy  for the 
loan to be approved. 
Therefore, the onus  was on Mr W to ensure he had an arrangement in place to repay the amount 
borrowed at the end of the mortgage term. His application in December 2007 for the further advance  
confirms that he held two existing endowment  plans with targeted maturity values of £62,000 and 
£68,000. 
Also, Mr W says hes taken out several  mortgages previously, secured by either  endowment policies 
or pensions.  This would indicate that he had experience of knowing that it was advisable for him to 
arrange a repayment vehicle to repay the loan. 
The appropriate form of protection policy for an interest only loan was a level term assurance (LTA) 
policy, not a DTA policy which would  leave  him under-insured over time.  
Given Mr Ws circumstances in January 2007,  its questionable whether life cover was appropriate  for 
him. But critical illness cover (CIC) on a level basis  was suitable  to repay  the loan if he ever 
contracted a serious  illness that prevented him ever working again.
The policy provider has confirmed  that a standalone CIC policy with a fixed sum assured  of £157,000  
over 12 years would have  cost Mr W almost £650 per month, nearly  £170 per month more  than the 
policy he was recommended. Therefore, while Mr W was sold the wrong version  of the policy, he 
hasnt suffered a financial loss as a result.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators, who felt it should be upheld.
Briefly, she thought  there was insufficient evidence that Barclays had discussed with Mr W the need 
for critical  illness or why a decreasing form of cover was appropriate for an interest only loan. Indeed,  
the adviser noted that Mr Ws income would  not be unduly affected if he could no longer work due to a 
serious illness. This contradicts an earlier statement on the mortgage factfind that Mr W would have 
difficulty maintaining  mortgage payments in the event of death  or critical illness.   
Also, life and critical illness  cover provided by a policy  on a decreasing basis was unsuitable for an 
interest only mortgage, as it would leave  Mr W under insured over the term of the policy. 
For these  reasons, the adjudicator decided  that the policy had been mis-sold  to Mr W and that 
Barclays should pay him a full refund of premiums, plus interest to-date.
Ref: DRN20411448In response, Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators view and said that:
its important to distinguish the respective benefits of an income  replacement policy and a 
critical illness policy. An income protection policy  provides benefits  over the short term; 
typically, up to 24 months, whereas critical  illness  cover pays  a capital sum on diagnosis of a 
serious illness. Theres no evidence  Mr W had an existing critical  illness policy  in place;
he did hold an existing income  replacement policy providing £433 per month. This left a 
shortfall on his mortgage  repayments of around £870  per month,  which  would be made up 
from the income from his business. But this income wasnt  guaranteed, particularly  if he could 
no longer work. And it does seem that Mr Ws business had been dissolved  by 2014;
In his 2007 mortgage  application, and his complaint, Mr W confirmed that did want his 
mortgage repaid if he suffered a critical  illness or died an. But he declined any further income 
replacement cover; 
the initial  illustration Mr W received  for the DTA policy  quoted a monthly  premium of £305.38, 
which was rated up to £480 per month;
given the above, critical illness was suitable for Mr W, albeit  that it should  have been set up to 
provide level cover for an interest only loan and he was provided all relevant  documentation, 
including the key facts;
in his 2002  mortgage application, Mr W confirmed his son lived with him, which created a 
need for life cover.  Even if his son wasnt financially dependent on him by 2007, this doesnt 
make the recommendation unsuitable if, in any event, Mr W wished to have the mortgage 
repaid on his death without the need to sell the property. And Mr W did express concern  in his 
complaint that the policy would  only pay out a fraction of the mortgage amount.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been referred  to me for review.
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In January 2007, Mr W applied through Barclays for a rate switch mortgage of £157,000 on an 
interest-only basis to put his borrowing on more favourable terms than the interest-only mortgage of 
£157,000 hed taken  out in October  2004  offered.
While there are shortcomings and contradictions  in the documentation completed by the adviser the 
time, its evident that Mr W was recommended  the DTA policy to provide life and critical illness cover 
for this loan.
But the DTA policy was fundamentally  inappropriate  for a loan repayable  on an interest-only  basis 
and, in any event, the benefits it provided didnt take proper account of the existing policies Mr W held 
at that time.  The adviser recorded that two existing  policies provided  level life cover, whereas Mr W 
has provided  evidence that they were mortgage endowment policies providing life cover and targeted 
maturity values of £62,000 and £68,000 respectively  shortly after the 2007 mortgage was due to be 
repaid in November 2018.     
As such, at the point he received advice to take out the DTA policy, Mr Ws financial position  was that 
hed borrowed £157,000 on an interest-only basis and held two mortgage  endowment policies that 
provided life cover of £130,000 for the whole of the mortgage term which were targeted to repay  all 
but £27,000 of this loan if he survived  the term of the loan. 
I cant  explain why Mr W didnt arrange a policy  to meet this shortfall in cover for his 2004 mortgage. 
Nevertheless, given his existing arrangements, I am inclined to believe that Mr W did wish for the 
whole of his mortgage  to be repaid in November 2018, or if he died beforehand.
So, it seems  to me that Mr Ws immediate and obvious requirement was to take out a policy to 
supplement the benefits  provided by the two endowment policies he already held; a similar  policy 
Ref: DRN20411449providing life cover over 12 years and a targeted maturity value of £27,000 in January  2019,  as 
section 6 of the mortgage  agreement strongly recommended him to arrange.
I agree that this need to take out a savings  plan to ensure the capital loan would be repaid at the end 
of the mortgage term wasnt a condition of the loan. But, as Mr W did receive advice to protect  this 
mortgage, in my view, it was essential that any recommendation he received should in the first 
instance have addressed  the need to ensure  his mortgage  was fully repaid around November 2018,  
or on his earlier death. 
I really cant  appreciate why a policy providing  life cover of £157,000 on a decreasing basis over 12 
years was appropriate  for Mr W. Given  the benefits provided by his existing policies, he was over-
insured for life cover  until such time as the sum assured  reduced  to £27,000, whereupon  hed become  
progressively under-insured.  Furthermore, the policy didnt pay a capital sum that would enable him to 
repay the loan if he survived the mortgage term. (In support of Mr Ws complaint that he thought  the 
DTA policy was an endowment, I note his application for a further advance of £50,000  in December 
2007 refers to the policy  he was recommended in January 2007 as an endowment.)
I understand why Barclays says it was suitable to recommend critical illness cover to Mr W given the 
adviser recorded  in the mortgage factfind that he did wish for his mortgage to be cleared on 
suffering a critical illness. But the DTA policy  provided  increasingly less critical illness cover  
throughout its term than Mr W required to repay the loan in full.
Mr W also disclosed that, in the event of being unable to work due to long term illness or incapacity,  
he would still receive an income from his business to meet his mortgage repayments.  So, in answer to 
the question: If you or your partner were  unable  to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment, 
would you need your mortgage payment protected?, Mr W said No. 
Notwithstanding this, he did hold an income replacement  policy whose monthly benefit of £433 might 
cover his outstanding mortgage repayments depending on when a critical  illness claim occurred  under 
the DTA policy, although  the level of benefit payable under this policy might  be affected by other 
income and benefits he received. 
Barclays has also confirmed that the premium payable  to a standalone critical illness policy  providing 
level cover  of £157,000 over 12 years would have been £650 per month.
So, for Mr Ws mortgage to be comprehensively covered, he ought to have been recommended a 
mortgage endowment policy providing life cover and a targeted  maturity value of £27,000, plus a 
critical illness policy for £157,000 at £650 per month. 
If Mr W had been recommended both policies, Im inclined to believe he would have  appreciated the 
nature of each  one and the different benefits they provided.  In other words, I dont think he would 
have mistaken a term assurance policy  for an endowment policy.
The advice Mr W received  to take out a DTA policy that provided reducing life and critical illness cover 
over 12 years was fundamentally inappropriate for an interest  only loan. Given, as he says,  Mr W 
historically protected his previous interest only mortgages with endowment policies, he should have 
been recommended a mortgage endowment  to protect borrowing  of £27,000  his existing endowment 
policies didnt  cover.
        
But, while Ive seen no details of Mr Ws financial position in January  2007, given he said he would 
continue to receive an income  from his business if he was ever prevented from working due to long 
term illness or incapacity,  I dont think  he would have been prepared to pay £650 per month for a 
policy that would repay his loan if he was critically ill or injured. As it was, he says he thought  the 
monthly premium  of £480 was the cost of an endowment policy providing life cover and a targeted 
maturity value  of £157,000.
Ref: DRN204114410In my view,  Mr W should  be returned to the position financial as if he had been recommended  a 
mortgage endowment policy with the same  insurer  which provided life cover and a targeted maturity  
value of £27,000 over 12 years.
I appreciate that the endowment policy held by Mr W matured in February 2019 short of its targeted 
amount of £62,000 by £11,500. But, in January 2007, the policy was targeted to pay £62,000 at 
maturity and it wasnt Barclays responsibility  to ensure Mr W managed this policy to ensure that it 
paid £62,000. Its advice at that time could reasonably  assume that Mr W would ensure  that this 
existing policy would give him around £62,000 when it matured.
provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W redress of E + F, where:
A = the monthly  premium Mr W paid to the DTA policy from time-to-time,  less the monthly  
premium he would  have been required to pay to a 12-year mortgage endowment policy 
providing life cover and a targeted  maturity  value  of £27,000 from time-to-time since January  
2007;
B = interest on the net premiums in A at the rate of eight per cent per annum  simple from 
January 2007 to January  2019;
C = A + B = the premium loss at January 2019;
D = the maturity value in January  2019 of a mortgage endowment Mr W ought  to  have been 
recommended with a term of 12 years, providing life cover and a target  amount of £27,000;  
E = D + C = the total loss at January  2019;
F = interest on E at the rate of eight per cent per annum  simple from January  2019 to-date.
  
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers its legally obliged  to deduct income tax from the interest 
calculated in B and F, it must send a tax deduction  certificate with the payment. Mr W may reclaim 
any tax overpaid  from HM Revenue and Customs, if his tax status allows him to do so. 
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2041144