K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M took out a loan with Santander  in 2003. At the same time he bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the cost of his loan repayments for up to 12 months  at a time in the event 
of a claim for unemployment. It wouldve paid out for up to the remaining term of the loan if 
Mr M was off sick from work.
Mr M says that he wasnt aware  the PPI was optional. He says he wasnt  given an 
explanation as to why it was suitable for him and he didnt  know  the cost.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should  be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Neither party has retained any of the paperwork from the sale of the loan and PPI, which 
isnt surprising given  it happened over 15 years  ago. 
Santander has been able to provide sample  copies of the loan application form and loan 
agreement that were in use at the time. The application form has a separate  section for PPI 
and makes it very clear  that its optional. Theres a choice to be made  on the form about  
whether to take it or not. I dont think Mr M wouldve been given the loan if he hadnt  
completed the application form. And if he completed the application form I think  its 
reasonable to think that he wouldve completed  the PPI section to say that he wanted  it, too.
So on the limited  information I have, I think Mr M bought the PPI knowing he had a choice 
about it; although I can understand why he wouldnt remember this so many years later.
Santander gave  Mr M a personal  recommendation to buy the PPI, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for him. Looking at Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time I think that it was. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which  mightve 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim, such  as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr M had a small amount  of sick pay entitlement from his employer, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for as long as he was off work  potentially 
for the entire term of the loan;
Mr M wouldve had a modest statutory redundancy entitlement. Again, the PPI 
wouldve paid out in  addition to this and for up to 12 months  at a time for each claim.  
Ref: DRN25289092Mr M didnt have  any savings, but he said his friends  and family  wouldve helped him 
out if needed. But the PPI wouldve meant  he didnt have  to rely on third party  
support, which  cant be guaranteed;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was a regular premium  policy, so it was flexible and could be 
cancelled at any time without financial penalty.
Santander also had to make sure Mr M got all the information he needed about the policy  to 
make his decision about buying  it. I can see that the cost was clearly  disclosed to Mr M, but 
its possible there was other  detail  he didnt receive. But I dont think even if Mr M had all the 
information he needed that it wouldve made a difference to his decision to buy it, because it 
was suitable for him in the way Ive already described.
So I dont  think Mr M lost out as a result of anything Santander might have done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint so it follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528909