K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the way Nationwide Building Society handled Mrs Ss 
application to transfer their mortgage  into her sole name. Mrs S says Nationwide  misled her 
and withheld  information from her, and this resulted in her application being declined.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a joint mortgage  with Nationwide. In 2013, they switched  to a five-year  
fixed interest rate. In 2017,  they began a divorce.  Mrs S wanted  to transfer the mortgage  into 
her sole name and take a new fixed interest  rate when the existing fixed rate ended  in 
September 2018. 
Also in 2017, some monthly payments to the mortgage were  missed. Mrs S made an 
overpayment of around £15,000 to clear the arrears and build up an overpayment  reserve.  
She asked  Nationwide whether she could use this to reduce her monthly contractual  
mortgage payments  without any adverse  impact  on a future change of borrower application. 
Nationwide told her she could, so thats what Mrs S did. Later,  having  discussed the matter 
further with Nationwide, she capitalised the remaining overpayment  reserve  in order to 
increase the amount shed be able to borrow on her own.
In late 2018, Mrs S applied to transfer  the mortgage  into her sole name. Nationwide  turned 
down her application. It didnt give a reason for this initially, but in its final response to her 
complaint it told Mrs S it was because  the mortgage wasnt affordable  and because  of 
information on her credit  file. It said she would  need to wait six months  before re-applying.  It 
also said it accepted  it had made  some mistakes, it apologised, and it would pay her £200 by 
way of compensation.
Mrs S thought this was very unfair and that Nationwide had contradicted itself. She also said 
that she had been paying the mortgage  and all her bills on her own for some time, so she 
had shown she could  afford to take sole responsibility for the mortgage.
Our investigator concluded that Nationwide was reasonable  in looking into Mrs Ss 
circumstances before agreeing to the change of borrowers. He thought  Nationwides service 
had fallen short in some respects,  but that £200  was fair compensation in recognition of that. 
Mrs S didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. She said she was misled 
and kept in the dark, she has lost out both financially and in terms of her health,  and she 
feels very strongly about the bad service  she received. She has since  re-mortgaged  to 
another lender.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Nationwide  wanted  to satisfy itself that Mrs S could afford to pay the 
mortgage on her own before it would agree to the change of borrower  application. It had to 
take account of Mrs Ss best interests,  and it would not have been in her interests to take 
sole responsibility for a mortgage she might not have been able to afford.
Ref: DRN20046412Mrs S has explained that she had already  been  paying the mortgage, as well as all her other 
bills, on her own for some time before  she made the application. She feels  very strongly that 
she was misled into drawing on the overpayment reserve she had built up on the mortgage  
to keep her monthly  payments down for a time. She has been clear  that she wouldnt have 
done that had she known  it would  affect her application, and she could have afforded  the full 
mortgage payments.
I can certainly see Mrs Ss point and why she was so frustrated by Nationwides  decision not 
to agree to the change in borrowers, as well as by the conflicting information  she had been 
given. Importantly, though, having  carefully  considered Nationwides  records, I dont think 
the lower monthly  payments Mrs S was making in 2018 were  the reason  for its decision to 
decline her application.
I would expect a lender  to take account  of all a borrowers circumstances in making its 
decision in this situation. I think Nationwide did that here. Its records  from the time of the 
application show that the key reasons it wouldnt  agree  to the change  of borrower were 
concerns about  whether Mrs S could afford  the mortgage on her own and because of arrears 
on a mortgage  she and Mr S had on another property.
 
Mrs S had told Nationwide  she wouldnt be responsible for that other mortgage longer term, 
because it would be transferred into Mr Ss sole name. Nonetheless, I think it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to take it into consideration. It was, at that time, still a joint liability,  
so I can see why arrears on it  whilst bearing  in mind Mrs Ss wider circumstances as well  
led Nationwide to have  concerns about  Mrs Ss ability to maintain payments to the mortgage  
with it on her own.
In all the circumstances, I find Nationwide gave fair consideration to Mrs Ss application. I 
also find that its service did fall short: its communication with Mrs S wasnt as clear and 
accurate as it should have been, and it caused some delay. But I think its apology  and the 
£200 it offered  are fair compensation for the impact of that on Mrs S.
Mrs S has also said Nationwide has wrongly reported missed  or late payments on the 
mortgage on her credit  file. Ive looked  carefully at the copies of her credit file she has 
provided, as well as Nationwides records. I find nothing to indicate  any missed or late 
payments or concessions  such as arrangements to make reduced payments since late 2017 
(when Nationwide agreed to accept a lower payment  than the usual contractual  payment for 
just one month). So I cant find anything wrong  here.
Mrs S has sent us e-mails from her new mortgage  lender, saying her application to them 
was initially turned down because of mortgage arrears. The Nationwide mortgage  was not in 
arrears  but Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage on the other property had been. I note as well that 
the lender of that other  mortgage said they removed the arrears from Mrs Ss credit file in 
April 2019  just before Mrs S successfully applied to her new mortgage lender. So I dont 
find that how Nationwide has recorded the operation  of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage with it on 
Mrs Ss credit  file has caused  her to lose out. 
In conclusion, while I realise Mrs S will be very disappointed, I dont  think Nationwides  
decision about her change of borrower application was unreasonable or that I can fairly 
require it to pay her any more compensation.
Ref: DRN20046413my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that I consider 
Nationwide Building  Society has made a fair offer to put things right.  In settlement, 
Nationwide should  pay Mrs S £200  compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2004641