K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  the lack of help they received from Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC when they fell into financial difficulty.  Mrs F has dealt  with the complaint throughout.
background 
In July 2017, about a year after taking out a mortgage with Barclays for £977,500, Mr F 
suffered a very serious illness which left him unable to work. The mortgage,  which  
completed in June 2016, was on a fixed rate of 1.97% until 30 June  2018,  after which it 
reverted to a variable rate of 3.49% above  Barclays  Bank Base Rate (BBBR).
Mr F was the main earner   his salary was about  six times  as much as Mrs F earned.  
Although he had a salaried income, Mr F also undertook  private work, which formed a 
significant part of his income.  So when  Mr F wasnt able to work, although he received full 
pay from his employer for several  months,  without the income from his private work the 
family finances rapidly became under stress.  
Mrs F immediately contacted Barclays and asked for a payment holiday. But because this 
isnt a concession  Barclays  allows on its mortgages, it wasnt able to agree to this. Mr F had 
an income protection policy  which, if Mr F was unable to return to work, would pay out just 
under £8,000 per month until Mr Fs retirement  date, but this wasnt  due to begin until 
July 2018. Mrs F explained to Barclays that she hoped Mr F would be able to return to work  
after 12 months.
Mrs F completed an income and expenditure  form (I&E), which  she sent to Barclays.  She 
had to chase Barclays to respond. The I&E showed  a significant shortfall in income and 
expenditure of over £6,000 per month.  Although Barclays agreed  to a concession   it agreed 
to accept a reduced  monthly mortgage payment of £2,000 rather than the £4,744.48 due 
under the mortgage contract. This concession was renewed until February  2018  inclusive.
The house  was put on the market in January 2018.  In April 2018 Mrs Fs case was 
transferred to the Customer  Support Team and in May 2018 Barclays agreed to a further 
concession of £2,000 per month for three  months. 
Mrs F complained to Barclays about the lack of help and support  shed  received. In 
particular, Mrs F thought the mortgage should have been put onto an interest-only  basis  in 
July 2017, and that Barclays should have passed her case  over to the Customer Support 
Team much earlier.
Barclays acknowledged that it could have been  more responsive to Mrs F during such  a 
difficult time. It offered  compensation  of £350  for distress and inconvenience, and £100 to 
cover the cost of telephone calls.
Barclays also agreed to apply a concessionary rate of 2.12% to the mortgage  which by 
then had come to the end of the fixed rate period.  Mrs F accepted  this in October 2018.
But Mrs F was still unhappy about  the lack of options Barclays  offered her when she first 
contacted it about her situation in July 2017  and so complained to us.
Ref: DRN20712282An investigator looked at the complaint. He didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly in not 
offering a payment holiday or converting the mortgage to interest-only.  He also thought the 
compensation offered by Barclays was fair. 
In relation to the concessionary rate, the investigator  thought  this should be backdated to the 
date the fixed  rate ended   30 June 2018  and the account reworked to reflect  this, as it 
would have an effect on the level of arrears.
Both parties  responded to the complaint. Barclays explained that the concessionary  rate is a 
12-month product,  and is currently  scheduled  to end on 30 November 2019. If it is 
backdated, then it will end on 30 June  2019,  after which the mortgage  would  revert  to the 
follow-on rate of 3.49% above BBBR (currently 0.74%). 
Mrs F responded to say that her issue is that the way Barclays  deals with arrears  is very 
rigid and has no flexibility to help those in need.  Mrs F thinks that Barclays  should have 
offered at the outset to put the mortgage onto an interest-only basis.
Because Mrs F didnt  agree with the outcome, it now falls to me to issue  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to express  my considerable sympathy for the position Mr and Mrs F are in. I 
know this has been a very difficult time for them. Mrs F has told us that Mr F has had a 
recent setback but I sincerely hope  he is able to make a full recovery.  
With that in mind, I know that what I am about  to say will be unwelcome news  to Mrs F, and I 
am truly sorry if my decision adds to her distress. But Im unable to uphold  her complaint.
I dont underestimate  the strain  Mrs F has been under in dealing  with the family finances  
not just Barclays, but other businesses too. I understand that where accounts were in the 
sole name of Mr F this caused  difficulties for Mrs F because  Mr F wasnt capable  of granting 
consent for her to act on his behalf.  
As a result Mrs F had to instruct a solicitor so she could  apply  to be appointed  as Mr Fs 
Deputy by the Court of Protection. But without a Deputyship, Mrs F wasnt  able to access Mr 
Fs savings accounts. 
Mrs F did the right thing by contacting Barclays immediately. And I think Barclays  could have 
shown greater urgency  in its response. Barclays doesnt offer payment breaks. Thats  a 
commercial decision its taken, and I dont have any power to order it to offer these. But what 
I can consider is whether,  in all the circumstances, Barclays acted reasonably when it was 
made aware  of Mr and Mrs Fs situation.
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (known  as MCOB)  
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in financial difficulty. 
Under MCOB 13 Barclays is required  to explore  ways to resolve an arrears situation, 
especially if the problem  that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-
term and capable of being resolved within a few months. For example, temporary 
Ref: DRN20712283unemployment where theres evidence of a new job about to start, or maternity leave where  
there is an imminent return  to work.  
Generally in this situation Id expect Barclays to consider reducing  the mortgage  repayments 
for a short period of time, and possible capitalisation  of any arrears  accruing at the end of 
the period. (Capitalisation would be dependent on the borrowers  circumstances because  
this would result in a higher monthly repayment  once arrears  are added to the remaining  
balance.) 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage repayment was made up of £1,606 interest and £3,138  capital  a 
total of £4,744. By agreeing to accept payments  of £2,000, Barclays  did more than it was 
required to do by the regulator.  It deferred  all of the interest  and £394  of capital. 
In all the circumstances, I dont think this was unfair. As far as Barclays was aware  this 
wasnt intended to be a long-term  situation.  Although Mrs F was initially  optimistic  when she 
first spoke to Barclays that Mr F would be back at work within 12 months, it was clear  that by 
the end of 2017, this wasnt likely  to happen.
For long-term difficulties, Barclays is required to look at other ways to help, such as 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period  of time or capitalisation of arrears.  But balanced against that is the 
lenders regulatory  obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable.  
A transfer  onto interest-only (which is what Mrs F wanted)  would only be appropriate if 
theres evidence  of a suitable repayment  vehicle, such as an endowment  policy,  ISA, share 
portfolio or other investment that would  pay off the capital at the end of the term. The 
regulators no longer consider a sale of the property secured by the mortgage at the end of 
the term to be a suitable repayment vehicle. From  the information Mrs F provided on her 
I&E, other than £25,000 in Mr Fs business account, there are no investments that could be 
used to repay an interest-only  mortgage.
Mr F has an income protection  plan, which would pay out just under £8,000  per month  after 
he has been unable  to work  for 12 months.  As I understand it, this would pay out until Mr Fs 
retirement date if the insurer is satisfied  that he is permanently unable  to work. This in itself 
is a devastating  position for Mr and Mrs F to be in, because I am sure the last thing Mr F 
would want is to be declared permanently unable to work. He is a very highly skilled  person 
who has achieved great professional success.  But even after taking the policy payments into 
account, Mr and Mrs F would still have a shortfall on their monthly expenditure each  month, 
based on the I&E sent to Barclays in 2017. 
I can see why Mrs F believes Barclays was rigid in relation to the help it was able to offer 
her. But Barclays wouldnt  be helping borrowers  whose difficulties are long-term by agreeing  
to short-term solutions which would ultimately make their financial position worse.
So as far as the available options to help Mr and Mrs F, I think Barclays  did as much as it 
could in all the circumstances. It considered their financial position and, having done  so, 
offered concessions that were appropriate  to their situation.
Im glad to see Barclays has put a concessionary  rate of 2.12% in place for 12 months. 
Before this has expired,  Mrs F will need  to update  Barclays on the family circumstances. 
Ref: DRN20712284As far as customer service is concerned, initially when  Mrs F contacted Barclays,  the 
mortgage wasnt in arrears. So I dont think Barclays fully appreciated the urgency of the 
situation. This is true of many lenders   they will be in regular  contact once an account falls 
into arrears, but if a customer explains to the lender that they are about  to experience 
financial difficulty, lenders are often slow to respond and are reactive rather  than proactive.
Im glad to see Barclays has acknowledged that its customer service  fell short  in relation to 
its communication with Mrs F when she first contacted it. I think the compensation of £450 
offered by Barclays for distress,  inconvenience and the cost of calls is fair and reasonable. 
But I dont have any power to tell Barclays to change  the way it handles arrears or how it 
deals with customers in financial difficulties. The systems Barclays has in place for dealing  
with this are in line with what is required by the regulator. I cant  tell Barclays to change the 
way it deals with this aspect of its business.  
Barclays is also required to provide accurate reports of the position on an account to credit 
reference agencies,  including payment arrangements  and arrears. I know this is a situation  
Mr and Mrs F had never been in before, but Im unable to order Barclays to remove or alter 
the information on Mr and Mrs Fs credit files.
With regard to the concession on the mortgage of 2.12%,  I see the investigator asked 
Barclays to backdate this. Barclays has explained  that if it does this, the concession  will 
expire at the end of June 2019, rather than November  2019.  
So I leave it to Mr and Mrs F to decide  if they want the concession  to be backdated  or not. I 
think it would  be helpful if, once this decision is issued, Barclays  was to write to Mr and 
Mrs F to explain the implications of backdating  the concession to 1 July 2019 and to seek 
written consent if they want to do this.
And as I said above, before the concession expires  whether this is in June or November  
Mrs F will need to be in contact with Barclays about what happens after that.
This has been a very difficult decision for me to write, because whats  happened to Mr and 
Mrs F has turned their lives upside down,  at a point where they were expecting to be able to 
enjoy the rewards  of their years of hard work.  I cant imagine how difficult this has been for 
them. But I have had to put aside my natural feelings of empathy for them  and consider this 
complaint without being swayed by emotion. Having done, so Im very sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs F, but Im unable to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  the compensation of 
£450 offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC for trouble and upset  and telephone  calls is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding any other part of the complaint and make  no 
other order or award.  
With regard to the interest rate concession on the mortgage, I require Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC to write  to Mr and Mrs F to explain the implications of backdating  the concession to 1 
July 2019 and to seek their written consent  if they want  it to be backdated. In the absence  of 
written confirmation, the concession  is to remain until November 2019.
Ref: DRN20712285Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2071228