K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group unfairly kept its commission  
when Mr T cancelled his motor policy taken out through it.
background
Adrian Flux sold Mr T a policy covering three cars.  At the same time it sold him two other 
policies from a different  insurer. Mr T paid for all three policies. Adrian Flux asked him to 
send it proof  of his no claims discount (NCD). As that proof  wasnt accepted  Mr T cancelled 
the policies. The policies insurers refunded the unused premiums for cover to Adrian Flux. 
From those refunded  sums Adrian Flux retained its 20% commission  and paid the rest back  
to Mr T.
Mr T complained. Adrian Flux offered to waive its cancellation fees amounting  to £270 but 
said it didnt intend  to refund its commission. Mr T didnt think that went  far enough and 
brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator felt that Adrian Flux had dealt with Mr T fairly. 
Mr T didnt  agree so his complaints been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Adrian Flux is a broker. So it sells policies and may help with their administration. But it 
doesnt provide  the cover  which is provided by insurers which are separate businesses.
When he took out his policy Mr T said that he had nine years  NCD. He said that NCD wasnt 
protected. Adrian Flux asked him to provide proof of NCD. It said that acceptable proof was 
Mr Ts latest renewal or cancellation notice or a letter from his previous insurer or broker  
showing his NCD. But that wasnt the proof Mr T provided, instead  he sent an email  
enclosing information  from previous  insurers that set out his claims  history. That showed the 
claims made  against his policies and when those took place. And that hed been claim free 
for over a year. 
But the proof wasnt in the format Adrian Flux had asked for. It didnt clearly set out how 
many years NCD  Mr T had qualified for or whether or not that had been  protected.  And its 
noteworthy that Mr T had previously said that his NCD wasnt protected. And the information  
from the other insurers clearly show two fault claims and one theft claim within the previous 
three years. And that claims  history would usually mean  that any NCD would have been 
reduced by those claims. So I think it was reasonable for Adrian Flux to tell Mr T that his 
NCD proof wasnt in a format acceptable to the insurers. 
I understand Mr T has since found  another insurer that would accept the proof of NCD he 
provided. But acceptance of NCD in those  circumstances is at the discretion of the insurer 
concerned. So the fact that one insurer might  accept certain  NCD proof - although another 
hasnt - doesnt mean that either insurer has acted incorrectly,  unfairly  or unreasonably.  
After Mr T learned that his proof  of NCD wasnt acceptable he chose to cancel the policies. 
Ive seen that before his policy began Adrian Flux sent him details of its terms of business. 
Those terms show that that if he cancelled his policy, Adrian Flux would  retain its 
Ref: DRN20777862commission which was 20%. In other words it let Mr T know before his policy began that in 
the event he cancelled it Adrian Flux would keep its 20% commission, even if it didnt  tell him 
precisely how much that was at the time. So it acted in line with its terms of business which 
Mr T had accepted.  
Mr Ts said that in his own industry  commission would usually be retained on a proportionate 
basis based on the time that the contract  runs for. That might  be the case but Mr T doesnt 
work as an insurance  broker. And different industries have vastly different funding models. 
So I dont  think its fair to say that because one industry adopts a certain practice that should  
be applied  to a different  industry. So I dont think Adrian Flux treated  Mr T unfairly by acting 
in accordance with its terms  of business and retaining its commission.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2077786