K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited  (Erudio) failed to defer payments 
towards her student loan and instead  defaulted the account. Shes upset that shes  now 
being asked to pay the outstanding balance and that shes no longer entitled to have the 
loan written off at age 50.
background
Miss Ts student loans  are managed by Erudio. Her deferment period ended  in May 2015  
and as Miss T didnt  make payments to the account,  arrears started to accumulate. She 
applied to defer her student loan in June  2015  but Erudio wrote to her on 2 July 2015  to say 
they needed more evidence of her benefits.  Miss T says she didnt get this letter  as she no 
longer lived at the address they had for her. She was living in a caravan  with no post and 
shed broken her ankle  and was immobile.
In August  2015  she emailed Erudio saying shed sent the deferment letter to them and 
asking them to check. They replied shortly afterwards explaining, again, that the information 
they required was missing. Miss T says she told them at this time that she was living  in a 
caravan and was not receiving benefits.
She thought  that was the end of matters and was therefore surprised in October  2015  to find 
that the loan had been passed to debt collectors  and her account terminated. She was due 
to pass 50 in December  2015 and was expecting the debt to be written off. 
Erudio said that they advised Miss T of the situation by writing  to her at the address they had 
on file. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong and explained that as the account had 
been defaulted and was not fully up to date,  Miss T no longer had the right to have it written 
off at the age of 50.
So Miss T referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion.  
She thought  it was Miss Ts responsibility  to advise Erudio of her change  of address. She 
noted that Miss T was clearly aware of the arrears on the account in August and at that point 
it was clear she knew her deferment  hadnt  been processed. But she noted  that Miss T 
hadnt provided the evidence of benefits  that Erudio requested  and that she hadnt made 
payments for several months.  So, in those circumstances,  she thought  Erudio were  right to 
default the account. And, as the account  had been  defaulted, she noted that the terms no 
longer allowed Miss T to write  off the debt.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She explained  that shed been diagnosed  
with a debilitating illness in 1994  from which she still hadnt recovered. She said she thought 
shed provided  enough information when she explained she wasnt on benefits in August 
and she explained  that Erudio hadnt told her about the potential for her loan to be defaulted  
and that shed then not be entitled to have  it waived. She asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21069222I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Miss T so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was Miss T aware the account  wasnt deferred?
The deferment period ended in May and Miss T was sent an arrears letter at that point. I 
think its most likely  she received that letter as its not been disputed  and because  I can see 
that on the deferment form she sent the following  month she confirmed she still lived at the 
address Erudio had on file for her.
So, I think Miss T was most probably  aware that arrears were  accumulating  on her loan from 
May 2015. And I think  she knew the deferment  hadnt been approved in August as I can see 
she contacted  Erudio about  the arrears. She made  no payments to the account  and it was 
defaulted in October  2015. I think that was fair in the circumstances as:
I think its fair to default  an account when payments havent been  received for such  a 
long period. Ive not seen evidence to suggest Miss T was trying to make payments 
or that shed  provided the information Erudio were requesting  i.e. bank statements 
and evidence of the benefits  she explained she was receiving in her June deferment  
application;
The arears letter  in July explained the impact  that non payments would have. It said 
it could  lead to us (Erudio) taking steps  to default your account.  This could result 
in you losing the right to defer  your loan payments and to other benefits such  as age 
related cancellation.  It appears that Miss T was receiving some  mail which  was 
redirected by her estranged partner. I think its reasonable to suggest  she would 
therefore have  received  this letter: later than planned but in enough time to alert her 
of the impact of non payment.  And even if Im wrong about that, Erudio sent the letter 
to the address they had for Miss T an address theyd not been told had changed.
Erudio has explained  that if the account wasnt fully up to date at the point at which  Miss T 
turned 50 then her right to have the debt cancelled was lost. The account clearly wasnt up 
to date so I think it would reasonably follow that those rights were lost and that Erudio 
havent made a mistake.
were there exceptional circumstances?
I dont think it would  be reasonable to suggest  there are exceptional circumstances here that 
should have changed Erudios stance.
Miss T has explained that she was living at a different address but I think it was her 
responsibility to inform Erudio of this and, as Ive found she was most  likely aware  of the 
arrears in May 2015, I think  its also fair to suggest she should  have been expecting some  
communication and also expecting action if she didnt  clear the arrears that were 
accumulating.
Ref: DRN21069223I was sorry to hear about Miss Ts ill health  but Im not persuaded that theres  been  sufficient  
information that the issues  she described would have prevented  her getting in touch with 
Erudio; providing  the information they required to establish whether a deferment was 
possible or making a payment to her account.
And, overall,  Im afraid I am not persuaded that there is enough information here to suggest  
Erudio have done anything wrong or need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2106922