K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Yorkshire Building Society, (trading as Norwich and Peterborough  
Building Society), mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI),  policy.
background
Mr R bought the MPPI policy  in 1997  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  He says 
that the sale took place during a meeting.
Yorkshire says that from its knowledge  the MPPI initially would have cost about £12 a 
month. The policy covered Mr R against  accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. As Mr R 
disagreed the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in deciding  Mr Rs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
The particular type of mortgage that Mr R took out required him to take out MPPI. This 
was a commercial decision for Yorkshire which it was entitled to make.  Had Mr R not 
wanted this insurance he could have  chosen  a different type of mortgage with Yorkshire  
or gone to a different  lender. 
Yorkshire didnt advise Mr R to take out the MPPI. But even though it was compulsory, 
Yorkshire still had to give Mr R clear fair and not mis-leading  information  about the policy  
so that he could make an informed decision  whether to go ahead  with it or not. I dont 
know what Yorkshire said to Mr R during  the meeting, but knowing what I do about his 
circumstances at the time and the terms and conditions of the insurance, I find that it was 
suitable for him because:
oMr R was eligible for the policy;
oMr R wasnt  caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions  such  as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oMr R may have  had some savings and been entitled to some sick pay from his 
employer. But, following a successful claim the MPPI would have  paid out £200 a 
month. These payments would have been  in addition to any benefits which he got 
from his employment.  And, in the case of his involuntary unemployment, would have  
been made for up to 12 months. And, in the case where he couldnt work because  of 
accident or sickness, they would have been made  for up to 24 months. So I think that 
the policy could  have been  of use to Mr R;
Ref: DRN21913072oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other policies available  in the 
market at the time and it had a reasonable benefit. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr R couldnt afford the premiums.  In any event,  as it was paid for 
monthly, had Mr R later felt that the MPPI was unaffordable or that he no longer 
wanted it, he could  have cancelled it at any time without further cost;
So even if Yorkshire  failed to give Mr R all the details about  the MPPI that it ought to 
have, I dont think that clearer information would  have  changed  Mr Rs mind and stopped 
him taking  the insurance. 
From the above I conclude that Mr R isnt worse off as a result  of anything that Yorkshire 
may have  done  wrong. So theres  nothing  it needs to do to put things right.  
As Ive said above,  Ive considered everything  that Mr R has told us, including that he had a 
critical illness policy. He says that this would have  conflicted with the MPPI policy so that one 
or other of them wouldnt have paid out. I disagree  with this. Critical illness cover is quite 
different from MPPI. And had Mr R made a successful claim for critical illness it would have 
had no effect on his ability to claim under the MPPI.  And the reverse  would also have been 
true.
Mr R also said that the monthly benefit of £200  wouldnt  have been enough to pay his 
monthly mortgage payments. But the initial monthly  benefits under the policy  were defined  
as being the amount due to Yorkshire  each month with an option to increase the sum to 
include other mortgage related expenses - such as household insurances.  So I dont think 
that Mr R is right about this.
Mr R has also pointed out that he suffers from severe dyslexia and was confused about all 
the paperwork he had to sign. I dont know what happened during the meeting, but if Mr R 
had been uncertain about anything he could have asked Yorkshire for further explanations. 
Or he could have thought  about matters and returned at another time to progress his 
mortgage application. In any event, as Ive already pointed out, if he wanted  the mortgage  
that he took there was no option for him to refuse  to sign the paperwork for the MPPI as 
taking it was a requirement.
So Mr Rs above points  and all his other comments dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before5 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2191307