K821x#15complaint
Mrs R isnt happy with how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with her request for a refund from a 
retailer. 
background
Mrs R bought an iPad from an electrical  retailer using her HSBC  Visa card. She told us the 
sales assistant showed and described to her an iPad with a keyboard.  That s what  she 
wanted and thats what she thought  she was getting. But after buying it, Mrs R found  there  
was no keyboard.  She returned  to the retailer and was told the keyboard  wasn t included 
with the iPad. The retailer  offered to take the iPad back and give Mrs R a full refund. 
Alternatively Mrs R could  buy a keyboard. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with this so she got in touch with her card issuer, HSBC.  The bank put 
through a chargeback request. Chargeback is a dispute procedure operated by the relevant 
card scheme. Here  the card scheme is Visa. Mrs Rs account was credited with £627.99. 
The retailer  defended the chargeback request. In brief, it said the goods were as described; 
the goods hadnt been returned and the chargeback  request had been made for £627.99 
which was made up of the cost of the iPad and two other items  that werent being disputed. 
HSBC told Mrs R that the retailer had disputed the chargeback request. The bank gave her 
the chance to respond. Mrs R repeated that the retailers sales  assistant never told her the 
keyboard came at an additional cost. 
The card scheme didnt approve Mrs Rs chargeback request. This meant HSBC  had to re-
debit the full amount of £627.99 to her account. Mrs R complained  about  this. The bank  
didn t uphold  her complaint. In summary, it said this dispute was regulated  by the card 
scheme, not HSBC. This meant it couldnt overturn  the decision.  
Mrs R wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into this issue. In short, he said HSBC had followed its process and hadn t done 
anything wrong. 
Mrs R wasnt satisfied  with this. Again in summary, she said:  she hadnt been told to return 
the iPad; there d been a four month gap between her providing information to HSBC and 
then being told her claim had been rejected; and, no mention had been made about how 
HSBC had handled this issue. 
As this matter remains unresolved, its been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  it 
in part. Ill explain why. 
First, I will make it clear that my decision deals with Mrs Rs complaint against  HSBC. It 
doesn t deal with how she was treated by the retailer. That doesnt fall within the remit of our 
service. 
Ref: DRN26564482Its also important  to point out that the rules around chargebacks aren t set out in law. 
Instead, the chargeback scheme  is voluntary and is regulated by the various card schemes. 
Each card scheme has its own chargeback rules.  In Mrs Rs case, the card scheme is Visa. 
It isnt HSBCs decision  whether a chargeback request is successful.  Thats down to the 
card scheme. The bank cant overturn  the card schemes decision.  Nor can our service 
challenge how a card scheme  runs the chargeback process. But what I can look at is if 
HSBC dealt with Mrs Rs chargeback request  fairly and reasonably.  Thats what  Ive done  
here. 
I can see from HSBCs records  that Mrs R first raised this issue  with the bank  at the start of 
May 2018. HSBC  sent her the relevant forms for her to complete and briefly explained how 
the chargeback  process worked. Mrs R duly returned these by the middle of the month. 
HSBC sent Mrs R another letter at the end of the month. It explained that under the card 
scheme rules, it needed her to provide proof  that shed returned the iPad to the retailer and 
proof that it wasnt as described   that is, it was described as having a keyboard but had 
been supplied  without one. 
It seems  Mrs R didnt get this letter.  Im not sure why this would be. Ive looked at the letter.  
It was addressed the same as HSBC s letter from earlier that month  and its the same as 
the address Mrs R gave  to our service. But I accept post does go missing on occasion, 
although I cant hold HSBC responsible for the letter not being received.  
In any event, Mrs R spoke  to the bank  towards the end of July 2018.  HSBC raised a 
chargeback at her request  and credited  £627.99 to her account. Less  than a month later, the 
retailer contested  the chargeback. As above, it disputed the goods werent as described. 
The retailer  said the in store ticket  showed that the iPad didnt come with a keyboard.  It also 
said: the iPad hadnt been  returned;  and, the chargeback amount was for the full amount  
Mrs R had paid for the whole transaction, which was more than the cost of the iPad. 
HSBC wrote to Mrs R detailing why the retailer  had disputed the chargeback.  The bank 
asked her if she wanted to respond  to these points.  Mrs R replied, repeating that at no time 
did the retailers sales  assistant tell her the keyboard was an additional  item that cost extra.  
She said she wouldnt have bought such an expensive  model  if shed known the keyboard 
wasn t included. Ultimately however, the card scheme didnt approve her chargeback 
request. 
As Ive already said, its up to the card scheme  to accept or reject a chargeback.  I can see 
HSBC explained  to Mrs R how the dispute  process  worked. It asked her for the relevant 
information. HSBC  also gave Mrs R details of the retailers objections and gave her the 
chance to respond. All of this was in line with what I would expect. 
I also think there was little chance  of the chargeback succeeding. I say this as, in very 
general terms, chargebacks are used to provide a refund to a consumer where  there is a 
problem with goods  for example, an items is broken, damaged  or hasnt been delivered.  
But that wasnt what the problem  was here.  In this case, the retailer  offered Mrs R a full 
refund the day after she bought the iPad.  But Mrs R refused this and kept the iPad. 
Even though  HSBC  could see there  was little chance of a chargeback  being successful, it 
still processed the request on her behalf. Taking all the available  evidence  into account, Im 
satisfied HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  and dealt  with Mrs Rs chargeback request in 
line with the card schemes rules. 
Ref: DRN26564483But, after the card scheme rejected the chargeback  request,  it was over three months  before 
HSBC let Mrs R know  it had been declined and that her account  would be re-debited. Also, 
the letter it sent only referred to Mrs R not returning the iPad. I think  it would have been 
helpful if HSBC  has given a bit more  detail about  why the chargeback had failed  for 
example, that the card scheme had accepted the retailers evidence  that the iPad matched 
what was described  in store. 
HSBC accepts there was a delay in telling Mrs R the chargeback had been declined. I think 
it would  be fair and reasonable for the bank to compensate her for the trouble  and upset she 
might have experienced due to this. Im satisfied that £100 is proportionate to the 
circumstances here.  Im pleased to see that HSBC has agreed to pay this amount to Mrs R. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay £100  to Mrs R for the trouble  and 
upset shes experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2656448