K821x#15complaint
Ms T complained that alternatives hadnt  been  considered when she was advised by 
Tideway Investment  Partners LLP to transfer  her occupational pension scheme benefits to a 
personal pension.
background
Ms T contacted Tideway in September 2015 asking for advice about transferring her defined 
pension benefits  from a previous employer. She said she was looking at using  part of the 
transfer amount  to convert her home  to two flats. By letting one, she estimated  an income of 
£1,500 a month would  be generated. In addition, it would allow  her to leave the capital  to her 
daughter.
At the time Ms T was 57 years old, self-employed earning about £15,000 a year and had 
other income  of £8,000 a year. The pension scheme was her only pension  provision. Her 
other asset was her home. This had a mortgage  of £60,000 which  was expected  to be repaid 
by her state  retirement  age.
In December 2015, Tideway recommended  Ms T should transfer  her pension benefits. They 
said she could afford  to give up the guaranteed benefits of the occupational  pension 
scheme. By transferring to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP), Ms T would be able to 
achieve her objectives of converting her home which would generate additional  income and 
provide death  benefits for her daughter.
On 29 January 2016, £167,210.81 was transferred  to the newly arranged SIPP with a tax-
free cash  withdrawal being made  for £41,802.70 on 13 February  2016.
Subsequently, Ms T decided not to proceed  with the alterations to her home.  Her pension 
funds remained in cash and Tideway  contacted her about investing those funds. She 
explained she did not want to invest in shares and was considering buying another  property. 
She withdrew two amounts of £30,000 in two different tax years.
Ms T complained to Tideway.  They established  that Ms T had not embarked on the property 
conversion. Nor had she bought a second home.  She paid off credit card debts and a loan to 
a family  member that had been intended  to be deducted from her inheritance.  And she made 
a loan to another relative, although no details were given. She repaid part of her mortgage.
Tideway did not uphold the complaint. They  took on board Ms Ts comments  that they could 
have written more down about alternative scenarios. However, the advice was given in the 
context of Ms Ts detailed  action plan. Keeping the defined pension benefits would not 
allowed her to achieve her objectives.  Although there were mixed  messages about whether 
the CETV  offered good value, they were  confident  Ms T understood it was a relatively poor 
offer.
An adjudicator investigated Ms Ts complaint and recommended it should be upheld. He 
said:
Tideway had stated the transfer offer was poor value.
Ms T hadnt applied  for planning  permission  or paid for architectural  drawings, 
therefore hadnt fully committed to the property renovation. The adviser  ought  to have 
challenged Ms T about how committed she had been  to the project.
Ref: DRN21303462Tideway should have discussed waiting until Ms T was 60 years year old and use the 
guaranteed benefits  of the pension to use for the property renovation.
Tideway disagreed  with the adjudicator. They said Ms T had presented  a definitive plan to 
convert her property. She wasnt able to wait until age 60 as she required the funds at that 
time to improve her standard of living. It was Ms Ts decision not to go ahead  with the 
property conversion.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view. He explained the decision to repay 
debt appeared  to have been  made as Ms T appeared nervous about making investment 
decisions. Although  Tideway had said Ms T needed  to repay  expensive  debt or generate an 
income there  was no mention of using the lump  sum to repay debt in the advice process. 
The complaint has been referred to me for a determination.
Tideway also asked  how Ms T would have been  able to repay  debts and have sufficient 
income until age 60. They  said it appeared her other  income had stopped.  Transferring her 
defined pension benefits was the only way she could  repay those debts and have enough 
income.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The adjudicator explained the guidance  issued by the regulator  was a firm should start by 
assuming a transfer of defined pension benefits  was not suitable. The rules also required 
firms to consider other options for achieving the clients objectives.
Ms T approached Tideway with a plan she had started to formulate  about  using her home to 
provide additional income.  She had made  informal enquiries to establish the cost of 
converting her home, whether it was possible  and the income she could  expect to receive.  
The adjudicator explained Ms Ts plans had not progressed  to a stage where she was ready  
to move forward with her project.  The advice process should have considered alternative 
plans and the importance of the virtually  guaranteed income  Ms T would have received in 
just over two years time.  I agree with this point.
Tideways own assessment of the transfer value was that the investment return  of 5.03% 
indicated the transfer value represented  a poor offer. Other than the state pension, Ms Ts 
only pension  benefits were the benefits  from her ex-employer. These were a significant  part 
of her wealth. Her other main asset  was her home.  These points all suggest the advice 
should have been not to transfer.
I agree  with the adjudicator that Tideway should  have explored  Ms Ts plan in more detail. 
And they should  have considered other  options. I think  suitable advice should have been to 
retain the defined  pension  benefits.  Ms T was able to take the tax-free cash sum and a 
guaranteed income in a little over two years  time.  By Tideways  own admission, the transfer  
value offered was poor. It appears to me retaining the defined pension  benefits and taking 
those benefits  at age 60 would have  provided Ms T with the extra  benefits she needed. If by 
that time,  she decided  to proceed with her project for her home she could  do so at that time.
Ref: DRN21303463Tideway argued Ms T used the money to pay off debts and would not have  had the income 
to continue until age 60 without taking action. However, this option  was not discussed. Ms T 
wanted extra  income, but it is not clear any of the debts needed to be repaid  immediately.  
Her plans  changed and a family member  moved  into her home. I think it is likely  that Ms T 
was in a position where  she did not have to repay  her debts and did not need to transfer her 
pension benefits.  And Tideways assessment was the transfer offered poor value. 
I have also considered whether Tideways advice  caused Ms Ts losses. The benefits from 
Ms Ts ex-employer were  important to her. They formed  the bulk of her pension provision. 
Although she intended  to keep working the pension income would supplement  her earnings. 
If she wanted to generate  extra income using her plan to convert her home this could  have 
been achieved  when she reached  age 60. There was no compelling  need to act when  she 
was just over two years away  from the normal retirement age of the scheme. And Tideway  
did not discuss the option with Ms T.
I am satisfied the advice  given to Ms T by Tideway  was unsuitable. If Tideway  had discussed  
the option of waiting until age 60 this would have met her longer term plans. Ms Ts plans for 
converting her home were not so well advanced  she would not have reconsidered  her 
options. Although  she has used the funds to repay  short term debt, I see no reason why this 
would have caused her to act against  suitable  advice.
My conclusion is that if Tideway  had given suitable  advice  to retain the defined  pension 
benefits that Ms T would have followed the advice. 
fair compensation
My aim is to put Ms T, as far as possible, into the position she would now be in if she had 
received suitable  advice.
Tideway must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of this final decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published at the date of this decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Ms Ts acceptance of the decision. 
Tideway may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Ts 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ts SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Ms Ts pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  should not be paid into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance  implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms T as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid.  
Ref: DRN21303464A tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already been taken into account  in 
the payment for past loss above;  the remaining future loss is in respect  of taxable income 
only. So it would be appropriate  to reduce the loss by 20% to reflect the net of tax loss Ms T 
has suffered.
my final decision
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint.  I require  Tideway Investment Partners LLP to pay 
Ms T compensation as set out above,  up to a maximum of £150,000. 
Simple interest must be added to the compensation amount  at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date of my final decision to the date of settlement.
recommendation: 
If fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that Tideway pays Ms T the 
balance. I further  recommend  simple interest  is added to this balance  at the rate of 8% a 
year from the date of my decision to the date of settlement.
If Ms T accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Tideway. My 
recommendation is not binding on Tideway.  
It is unlikely Ms T can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of the 
compensation owing to her after the money  award  has been paid. Ms T may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2130346