K820x#14complaint
Mr D complained that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) acted irresponsibly when 
it gave him unaffordable loans.
background
Mr D took out 3 Mr Lender  loans  between August 2018 and January 2019. Mr D has repaid 
all these loans.
Heres a table showing  more information:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 06/08/2018 12/11/2018 6 £500 £207.33
2 19/01/2019 20/01/2019 3 £200 £96.35
3 24/01/2019 06/02/2019 3 £200 £132.26
Mr D said that hed become dependent on payday loans as the  loans were unaffordable  alongside his 
other commitments. Mr D told  us that he wasnt just  affected  financially  what happened had also 
had an impact on his mental  well being
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr D and Mr Lender told us about these loans. 
Overall, she thought that given the loan amounts,  what was apparent  about  Mr Ds 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Mr Lender to ask Mr D for the amount of information needed to show  the lending  was 
unsustainable. And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr D had taken out, 
the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been  borrowing from Mr Lender  
shouldve alerted Mr Lender to think Mr D was having  money problems. So she didnt uphold 
Mr Ds complaint. 
Mr D disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach  to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender provided Mr D with high-interest loans intended for short-term  use. So Mr Lender 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Ref: DRN25151792Mr Lender was required to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr D before providing it. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when  deciding whether a lenders checks were  proportionate. Generally, 
we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much  
information it gathers  and what  it does to verify that information  in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. But we might think it needed  to do more  if, for example, a borrowers 
income was low or the amount  lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship  goes  on, the greater  the risk of it becoming  
unsustainable and the borrower  experiencing financial  difficulty.  So wed expect  a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Ds 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Mr Lender says it agreed to Mr Ds applications after carrying out eligibility, creditworthiness  
and affordability checks. And it relied  on information Mr D provided about his monthly  
income and expenditure as well as information obtained  from credit reference agencies.  It 
says the information Mr D provided showed  that these loans were affordable for him - and in 
these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr D and Mr Lender have said. 
loan 1
I dont think Mr Lender was wrong  to lend Mr D loan 1. This was his first loan with Mr Lender 
 and so I think  Mr Lender was entitled  to rely on the information  Mr D provided.  This 
suggested that he was well able to afford this borrowing. 
At this early stage, Mr D didnt  have  any track  record with the lender  that shouldve  alerted 
Mr Lender to any underlying money problems, and I cant  see that there  was anything in the 
information Mr D provided or the information  Mr Lender had, which meant  that Mr Lender 
shouldve taken steps to verify the information  Mr D had declared. 
So I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Mr D took out the second loan a couple  of months  after paying  loan 1  and he borrowed 
less money this time over a shorter planned  repayment period.
The loan repayments looked to be affordable for Mr D. It looked like Mr D had managed the 
bigger monthly  repayments for loan 1 without any evident difficulty - and hed paid that loan 
off early.  There  was no material change in his financial circumstances as far as I can see. So 
I dont think there was anything to make Mr Lender  think that Mr D would find it hard to 
manage the loan repayments on loan 2. 
I dont feel Ive seen  enough to be able to uphold Mr Ds complaint about loan 2. And in the 
event, Mr D repaid loan 2 the next day and avoided incurring any interest  or fees  so this 
loan cost him nothing. 
Ref: DRN25151793loan 3
Mr D applied for loan 3 just four days after paying  loan 2. He applied  to borrow  the same  
amount of money  over the same period. But I dont think  this wouldve suggested to a lender  
that Mr D was becoming increasingly indebted or struggling with being over stretched 
financially. I think it just looked like hed underestimated his requirements when he arranged  
loan 2 and then paid it straight  back without using it.
Mr D hadnt given Mr Lender  any sign that hed found it hard to pay for his borrowing so far. 
The figures hed declared, and the information  Mr Lender had collected, seem  to support 
Mr Lenders lending decision. Loan 3 appears  to have been affordable for Mr D on the 
available information  - and I think thats  borne out by the fact that Mr D repaid this loan early 
too, which meant it cost him just £20.80 in fees and interest. 
Looked at overall, thinking about the amount  of the monthly repayments he had to make for 
each of his loans, the questions Mr Lender  asked Mr D and keeping in mind that that these 
were Mr Ds first three loans from this lender,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender 
to rely on the level of information Mr D was providing. Ive seen  nothing  in the information it 
collected that shouldve made Mr Lender think these loans werent sustainably affordable for 
Mr D. And I dont  think proportionate checks wouldve  required Mr Lender to ask Mr D to 
prove what he was declaring  or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances. So I dont think Mr Lender did 
anything wrong  when it made its lending decision without asking to check the bank  
statements Mr D sent to us.
Im sorry  that Mr D found repaying  these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Ds 
financial situation possibly  wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Mr Lender obtained.  
I appreciate that Mr D says he was borrowing  from other payday lenders. But it looks  like 
Mr Lender had already  allowed for that in its calculations  when  working out what Mr D could 
afford to borrow. Given that it appears Mr D told Mr Lender he was paying £419 towards 
other short term loans,  this still left him with disposable income of £781.  So the repayments 
on the loans Mr Lender provided all looked  comfortably  affordable  to me. 
In order to uphold  this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something  wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Mr Lender  did anything wrong in deciding  to lend to Mr D. 
I appreciate that my decision is going  to disappoint  Mr D but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ref: DRN25151794my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2515179