K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains that Nationwide Building Society is unable to provide her with details of 
what happened to the funds held in an investment savings  plan.
background
Miss C set up a personal equity plan (PEP)  with Nationwide in around  1998. Lately, Miss C 
found a statement relating  to the PEP dating  from around 1999. The statement shows  that 
by 30 September  1999, she held a PEP valued at £1,125. Miss C was unable  to find any 
more details so she contacted Nationwide  to try to locate  further  information.  
Miss C was told by Nationwide that her PEP account had been  moved  to a different 
business. She was also told the PEP account was closed on 11 February 2008. Miss C 
didnt recall receiving the funds so raised a complaint with Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt uphold  Miss Cs complaint. It said its records showed that Miss C met with 
its financial consultant  in 1997  for a full financial  review. As a result of this review  a 
recommendation was made for a PEP Mortgage  of £57,450 over 25 years, which  went  
ahead. Nationwide said its records show the associated mortgage ceased on 27 May 2004  
and the PEP was closed in February  2008. It said all indications  were that the PEP was 
surrendered. Nationwide added that given the time thats passed, it wasnt possible  to 
establish precise details including the final value. Miss C was unhappy  with the limited 
information she received from Nationwide, so she brought  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He considered Nationwide had conducted all 
the possible searches  it could  reasonably do. He noted the records  were now with another  
business who took over some parts of Nationwides business. And that this business had 
also conducted a thorough search of its records. He didnt think it was unreasonable  for 
there to be limited information given Miss Cs account was closed  more  than ten years  ago.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators view.  She wanted to know  what had happened  to 
the money and she considered Nationwide shouldve kept a record of who the balance 
had been paid to. So the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Firstly,  Im sorry to hear about  Miss Cs 
recent ill health. I know this is a difficult time for her. But having considered all the evidence 
and circumstances  of this complaint, Im not going  to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Its noted the records relating to Miss Cs PEP were  moved to another  business, who Ill refer 
to as B, in 2008. The legacy system that the transaction history was held on has since  been 
de-commissioned. And due to the passage  of time, both B and Nationwide  say they have 
limited information about  the account.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, as some of it is here,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have taken place.
Ref: DRN29954212I can see the account was opened in around 1998 as a Mortgage PEP. And that although 
Miss C says shes  moved from the property to which the mortgage related, she still owns it 
and has done  so since 1998. She says that she still gets letters  sent there but the last 
correspondence she received from Nationwide about her PEP was in August 1999.  
I note Miss C confirms she no longer has a mortgage with Nationwide and that she 
estimates this ended around  20 years ago. This has also been confirmed by Nationwide 
whose records show the mortgage associated with the PEP ceased, albeit later than 
Miss Cs estimate, in May 2004.  The PEP account  was closed in February 2008.
Based on this limited  information, I think the most likely scenario is that at the end of the 
mortgage term, Miss C surrendered this policy given there was no longer a need for it. And 
whilst I think its possible that someone  other  than Miss C mightve arranged this, overall  I 
consider this less likely rather than more likely. When the PEP was surrendered, in line with 
other similar businesses, I think its likely that Nationwide wouldve taken reasonable steps  to 
ensure it was dealing with its true customer.  So whilst I accept its possible that someone 
mightve surrendered  the PEP pretending to be Miss C, because  of the checks  Nationwide 
would then have  made, I consider the possibility to be remote.
I note Miss C said Nationwide  shouldve kept records to show  she received the money  from 
the surrender  of the PEP. I see B says it has double checked  its records  but unfortunately it 
doesnt hold any more information  about  Miss Cs PEP. And Nationwide  has also checked all 
the records it has. Businesses arent  required to keep records  indefinitely. In most cases,  
they are required to keep  records for a six year period after the relevant account is closed. 
And as more than ten years has passed since Miss Cs account closed, I dont consider it 
unusual or suspicious  that further information  is not available.
I appreciate Miss C thinks Nationwide shouldve told her about the move of her PEP to a 
different business   it updated her in relation  to another policy she had with them. But in this 
case, I see at the same  time the relevant part of its business was taken over by B, her PEP 
account was closed. So although I appreciate Nationwide couldve updated Miss C about 
this change, given her PEP account had already closed, I dont think  this disadvantaged  her 
in anyway.
So all things  considered, I think the most likely  explanation is the PEP account was properly 
closed and that, with the passage of time, its simply been overlooked  by Miss C. It follows  
from this, that I find Nationwide is not under  any obligation to pay Miss C the money  
represented by the last balance entry in the statement  she received in around  1999.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019. 
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2995421