K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 to 
protect a credit  card. Mr L says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr L hasnt said much about when he was sold PPI, so the first thing  I need  to consider is if 
Capital One gave him a choice in taking the PPI, and got his consent  to add the policy  to his 
card. And having done so, I think its likely  Capital  One made it clear that Mr L didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
Mr L applied for his credit card in 2005,  and about  a month  later, he called  Capital One to 
activate his new card  it was at this time that he was sold PPI. Theres no call recording 
available, but this isnt surprising for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses  
arent required to keep records indefinitely. But Capital One has provided a copy  of the sales 
script that was in use at the time which prompted  the representative to present the PPI as 
optional  and gain consent for it to be added to an account. I cant  be certain how closely 
this script was followed, but I dont have  anything to suggest that Capital One did anything 
different when it sold Mr L his PPI policy. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr L, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN26808182Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - but these points dont change my decision. And 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2680818