K821x#15Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2008 
alongside a credit card. Mr F says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
him the PPI.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 June 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc are required to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont intend to award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2008 alongside  a 
credit card. Mr F says Barclays Bank  UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23148242Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Fs case.
I currently dont think the PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Barclays had a responsibility  to make it clear Mr F didnt have to have the PPI and that it was his 
choice whether or not to take out the cover.  Unfortunately  due to the length of time thats passed  
there are no longer any documents  available  from the sale. But from what weve  seen of Barclays 
sales process from around the time the applicant  wouldve  had to make an active  selection  to take out 
the policy,  and in some  cases theyd  also be required to sign separately  for the PPI. The PPI was 
added to Mr Fs account so I think its likely he selected PPI during his application  process. And Ive 
not seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr F didnt  know the policy was optional or that he didnt 
consent to it being taken out. So in the absence of any stronger evidence  to the contrary, I think its 
more likely  than not that Barclays made it clear that Mr F didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand if he cant remember this.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr F so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and based 
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Ive seen that Mr F says he was 
suffering from a medical condition at the time of sale. Having reviewed the terms of the policy it 
appears Mr F wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy for this pre-existing condition. Our 
adjudicator upheld the complaint on the basis that the policy wasnt suitable, so Barclays shouldnt  
have recommended it to him.
But thinking  about what hes told us about the nature of his condition; it is likely  to have been a one off 
condition. And he told us he was taking regular medication to keep it under control. So I think  its 
unlikely this would be the main reason he might have needed to claim on the policy. Especially since 
he told us he has never had time off for this condition  since it first occurred  a number of years before 
the policy  was sold.
Ive also seen  a copy of a Demands and Needs letter  which recorded  Mr Fs circumstances  at the 
time. This letter shows that Barclays  informed Mr F that as he had received medical advice for a 
medical condition in the past policy may not cover you (Mr F) in the event  of a claim for this 
condition. 
From the evidence  Ive seen  it doesnt look like Mr F was affected by any of the other exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  and he seems to have  had a need for the cover. I say this having  seen that the 
Demands and Needs letter recorded that Mr F said he didnt have any sick pay from his employer  at 
the time, nor did he have sufficient other means to make his repayments in the event he was unable 
to work.  So I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong by recommending Mr F to take out the PPI.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. And for all the reasons I think the PPI was suitable for Mr F, I dont think better information 
about it would have put him off taking  out the cover. Which  means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F. But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr F 
because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mr F about that. Because Barclays didnt  tell Mr F, that was unfair.
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr F.
Ref: DRN23148243But I do intend to tell Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay back to Mr F any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
intend to award any further compensation.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 3 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2314824