K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way Stanton Fisher  Ltd (Stanton Fisher) dealt with his mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  claim.  
background
Mr R contacted Lender S in October  2017 to ask about making a claim for undisclosed 
commission. During his enquiry, he found  out about  MPPI applied to his mortgage. Mr R 
complained to Lender S about  the MPPI being added.  Lender  S responded on 27 November 
2017 rejecting  Mr Rs complaint. 
The complaint response  included  referral  rights for The Financial Ombudsman Service if Mr 
R was unhappy.  The response letter explained  this must be done  within  six months from the 
date of the letter. Mr R tried to take his complaint further with Lender S, but received another  
letter on 1 December referring to the previous letter  of 27 November 2017.
Mr R contacted Stanton Fisher on 1 December. Stanton Fisher  sent Mr R a claim pack with 
forms to complete. On 15 December Mr R signed two forms and sent them back . 
Mr R says in January 2018  he sent Stanton Fisher a copy  of the letters  hed had from Lender 
S before referring his claim  to Stanton Fisher. When sending its file to us, Stanton Fisher 
included a cover  letter  from Mr R explaining  the same,  so it seems likely this was received. 
On 9 January  2018 Stanton Fisher sent a data subject access request (DSAR) to Lender S. 
Stanton Fisher say additional DSARs had to be sent because Lender S didnt accept the 
authority forms provided. On 27 May the time limit for Mr R to refer his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  expired.  
Stanton Fisher received a response  to its DSAR  request on 28 June. On 14 August Mr R 
was sent a letter saying Stanton Fisher  wouldnt  be able to take his claim any further. 
Mr R tried to take his claim against  Lender S to the Financial Ombudsman Service but was 
told as referral rights had been  given in Lender S letter of 27 November 2017, Mr R was out 
of time. Mr R complained  to Stanton Fisher about its failure to advise him about  the six 
month time limit, despite him making it aware  that hed already contacted Lender S, and 
providing documents in support of this.  
Stanton Fisher rejected Mr Rs complaint saying that Mr R had been given referral rights  in 
the letter from Lender S dated 27 November 2017,  so he shouldve  been aware of the six 
month time limit before he contacted Stanton Fisher.  It also said that Mr R didnt tell the call 
handler about the claim hed made  previously, even though  he was asked about this. 
Mr R was unhappy with this response, and brought his complaint to this service for 
investigation. 
The investigator found that Stanton  Fisher had been  given enough  information  about Mr R 
trying to claim himself, and shouldve been  aware  of the six month time limit and told Mr R 
about this sooner. The investigator recommended Stanton Fisher pay Mr R £100 in 
recognition of this failure, and the impact on Mr R. 
Ref: DRN21301252Stanton Fisher rejected the investigators view.  It said it hadnt been instructed to pursue a 
formal complaint, and it completed a PPI check only, which Mr R hasnt been  charged for. It 
also maintained  that Mr R was aware  of his referral  rights and chose not to take his 
complaint further,  and Stanton Fisher cant be held responsible for this. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
From review  of the evidence it looks like Mr R tried to make a complaint about  MPPI to 
Lender S himself, but when Lender  S maintained its position that it hadnt  done anything 
wrong, Mr R contacted Stanton Fisher for help in finding out whether he was owed any 
compensation. 
Ive listened to the call Mr R had with Stanton  Fisher on 7 December 2017.  Stanton Fisher 
say that Mr R was specifically asked whether he had checked  for PPI before against  Lender 
S, and Mr R replied he hadnt.
I agree  that Mr R told the call handler that he hadnt  claimed for PPI before from Lender S, 
Mr R says he misunderstood  the question, and on balance, I believe  what  Mr R has told this 
service is true. Ive considered several  factors in reaching this view. 
It seems  logical that given  Mr R had had a rejection letter from Lender S only a few days 
before contacting Stanton Fisher, he was looking to Stanton Fisher  to try and get a 
successful outcome for him. I dont  think Mr R wouldve  had anything  to gain from 
withholding information about  the claim hed tried to make himself. Mr R in fact sent all 
complaint correspondence hed had with Lender S to Stanton Fisher, including  a copy  of the 
letter dated  27 November  2017. So I dont think it was Mr Rs intention  to mislead the call 
handler. Later in the call Mr R tried to explain to the call handler that he had tried to make a 
claim himself. 
Although I accept Mr R said at the start of the call that he hadnt  tried to make  a claim 
against Lender S before,  I think theres enough  evidence to say that Mr R did try to clarify 
what had happened  with his claim, including the contact hed made  previously. He wasnt  
able to explain this in more detail because  he was interrupted by the call handler.  So on 
balance I dont think it would be fair to say that Mr R didnt make  his previous claim with 
Lender S known to Stanton Fisher. 
Stanton Fisher says that it hadnt been  instructed to pursue any claims on behalf of Mr R, as 
its instruction was limited  to a free PPI check. Ive seen Mr R initially  signed two forms for 
Stanton Fisher. I accept  one of these forms clearly  said free PPI check,  and this was also 
explained in the call with Mr R. However the other form called Letter of Authority specifically 
referred to Stanton Fisher representing  Mr R in making his claim. 
The letter of authority authorised Stanton Fisher to pursue  an investigation into whether 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  (or payment  protection  products if known by another  
name) may have been sold. 
Ref: DRN21301253I understand that Stanton  Fisher says this only wouldve happened in the event that PPI was 
confirmed, and Mr R consented to Stanton Fisher representing him. But from looking at the 
authority form that Mr R signed,  I can understand why Mr R might have thought Stanton  
Fisher was managing  the claim.  This includes reviewing documents  he sent in, and 
explaining any time limits impacting on his ability to progress the claim further. 
Even if I was to accept  Stanton  Fishers  position that it was only instructed to carry out a free 
PPI check, Id still expect  it to review any information sent in by Mr R whilst the free PPI 
check was being  carried out.  
During the call on 8 December 2017,  Mr R told the call handler Ive got some documents  I 
dont know if you want me to send them. The call handler went  on to say that Mr R didnt 
have to send anything.  Mr R has told this service  that in January 2018  he sent a letter to 
Stanton Fisher. Ive seen that as part of the evidence sent to this service Stanton  Fisher  has 
enclosed a copy of this letter. The letter says Mr R is enclosing  when [he] made  [his] initial  
enquiry regarding PPI and Hopefully these  documents will be useful in my claim. Please 
contact me if I can be of any further  assistance. The documents sent by Mr R included the 
previous responses  hed had from Lender  S. 
I wouldve  expected  Stanton Fisher to have  reviewed  the evidence  sent by Mr R, and 
explained the six month time limit to him at the time. I think its likely that this evidence was 
received by Stanton Fisher in January 2018 as Mr R has said.  This matches what Mr R told 
the call hander in December about  wanting to send  evidence  in. At this time,  Mr R would still 
have been within the six month time limit to refer his claim to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. I think Stanton Fishers failure  to have reviewed Mr Rs correspondence at the time,  
and informed him of the six month  limitation,  impacted on Mr R missing out on the 
opportunity to send  his claim to the Financial  Ombudsman Service on time.  
But I also accept that Mr R had been  provided  with referral rights  by Lender S in two letters 
before he contacted Stanton  Fisher. So I think the compensation I award  should  reflect  this. 
The investigator recommended  Stanton Fisher  pay Mr R £100  in recognition of the 
opportunity Mr R missed out on, partly because of Stanton  Fishers failure  in the process  to 
have questioned Mr R when he tried to explain about his previous  claim with Lender S. 
I agree  that Mr R did try to explain his previous contact with Lender S during the initial call, 
and further evidence of his contact  with Lender  S was provided shortly after instructing 
Stanton Fisher to complete a DSAR. I think its fair that Mr R is compensated for the lost 
opportunity in taking  his claim to the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  because it was 
reasonable for him to believe that Stanton Fisher were acting for him, and I cant see that it 
took any steps to review  the evidence provided until it was too late. Stanton Fisher had two 
opportunities where Mr R volunteered  evidence  about the previous claim hed tried to make, 
and I cant see that Stanton Fisher took fair notice  of what  Mr R provided. So I think its 
reasonable that it pays compensation for its role in Mr R missing out on the opportunity to 
take his claim to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN21301254Stanton Fisher Ltd should pay Mr R £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to 
Mr R as hes no longer able to take his MPPI claim to the Financial Ombudsman Service for 
consideration. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2130125