K820x#14complaint
Mrs N has complained about Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA). She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her home emergency  policy.
background
Mrs N had a problem with her boiler. So she looked  to make a claim under her home 
emergency policy in September  2018. IPAs  engineer attended initially  and then refused to 
re-attend. This was because it believed the problem with Mrs Ns boiler was pre-existing.
Mrs Ns representative wasnt happy about  this and complained to IPA and then this service.  
IPA referred to its engineers notes and said that he got the fan on the boiler working  and the 
heating was working when he left. However, he said that Mrs N told him that there  had been  
a problem with the fan for a while and that she didnt  want to pay a call out charge so left it 
until the boiler wasnt working and called IPA. As the issue was pre-existing the engineer 
wouldnt re-attend.
Mrs N maintained that the engineer  wasnt at the property for very long and that the boiler 
wasnt working when  he left. Her representative maintains that the boiler  was working  fine 
until it broke down on this occasion  and questioned  what the engineer  had said.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs N but didnt  uphold the complaint. Although  he 
acknowledged that IPA didnt deal with the complaint  very well, especially as it didnt give 
referral rights to this service,  he didnt think it had done anything wrong. This was because  
he felt IPA was entitled to rely on the engineers  evidence from the time of attendance.
As Mrs N didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think the complaint  
should be upheld.  I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs N and her representative but 
I will explain  why.
I can understand how very frustrating this must be for Mrs N as she knows  what was and 
wasnt said at the time the engineer attended. But I have to base my decision on the 
available evidence. And the attending engineer has been clear  that the problem had been 
ongoing according to Mrs N.
Ive considered Mrs N and her representatives  account in detail and that of IPA. I dont think  
that the engineer would have anything to gain from not telling the truth.  And its possible the 
fan failing  could well have happened over time.  I know Mrs Ns representative  feels  that the 
engineer has been  untruthful. He feels the disclosure of the commercial  contract  between  
the engineer and IPA may shed  some light on this. But I dont think  that is necessary and it is 
commercially sensitive  information anyway. Without anything  to suggest otherwise Im 
satisfied that the engineer acted reasonably and professionally. 
I know Mrs Ns representative says that the boiler  was in full working  order  when it was 
serviced in January 2018. Indeed he has provided  a copy of the service  record. But I havent 
been provided with any report or detail surrounding the condition of the fan at that time. And 
it is possible that the fan deteriorated in the eight month period after it was serviced.
Ref: DRN22758852Ive asked Mrs Ns representative  what they did to get the boiler repaired or if they could 
provide some evidence  supporting their position that the damage  wasnt  pre-existing.  And it 
would seem that the boiler hasnt been  repaired. Without any independent evidence I cant  
say that IPA has done anything wrong.  But I would expect IPA to reconsider its position  if 
Mrs N provides any evidence to support her position  that the problem with the fan wasnt 
pre-existing. 
So, despite  my natural  sympathy for Mrs N I dont think IPA has acted unreasonably in 
declining the claim.  The policy doesnt  cover problems that pre-date the policy  or are due to 
lack of proper  maintenance . And without  any evidence to the contrary I cant say it has 
acted unreasonably. Plus, I note that the attending  engineer noted  other  issues in relation to 
the electrics with the boiler that would need looking at privately as well.
I know Mrs Ns representative has also raised  questions around the timescales involved in 
responding to the home emergency. And I agree  that the response  times  could have  been  
quicker. But I think the main concern is the failure  to repair the boiler and I dont  think the 
response time overly  affected things here. It is understandable  that gas boiler  emergency  
attendance was stretched at that time of year.  And I think the impact was minimal  as it 
appears that Mrs N has lived with the problem since - although I accept that any delay is 
frustrating.
Finally, I agree that IPA shouldve told Mrs N that she was able to complain to this service if 
she wasnt happy. But I dont think this has affected  things as she did complain  to us and we 
have considered her complaint in full. And I can see that the investigator has highlighted the 
failings here to IPA in any event.
So, from the evidence  available I think that IPA has acted reasonably in following its 
engineers guidance. I say this as there isnt any independent evidence to support Mrs Ns 
position and I would  expect there to be. However,  if Mrs N gains any supporting evidence 
from an independent engineer I would  expect IPA to look at things afresh.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2275885