K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
RCI Financial  Services  Limited, trading as Renault Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr A under a hire purchase agreement with Renault Finance that 
he signed in June 2017. He says that there have been on-going  faults with the cars multi-
media system including  issues with the GPS system,  the phone  linking to the system and it 
not receiving traffic announcements.  He says that he first noticed the issues  within  a few 
weeks of the car being supplied to him but ignored them until they became more frequent.  
He returned the car to the dealer  in June 2018  and repairs were attempted. But issues with 
the multi-media system  continued and the car was returned to the dealer on multiple  
occasions but the issues are still present.
Mr A complained to Renault Finance in January 2019 and said that he wanted  to reject the 
car. It said that the reported issues were not presented to the dealer until June 2018 and no 
fault was found.  It said that all repairs  needed had been completed under  warranty and it 
would not support rejection of the car. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained 
to this service. Renault Finance has since offered £750 to the dealer to help Mr A get a 
replacement car.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that a 
reasonable person would expect the media  unit on a new car to display such faults less than 
a year after it was supplied. She didnt think that the car was durable and thought that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to allow Mr A to reject the car. She 
recommended that it should: unwind his finance  agreement and update  his credit file 
accordingly; refund his deposit of £5,487.49 (with interest); and pay him £250 to cover the 
distress and inconvenience that this matter had caused him.
Renault Finance  has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that, whilst  it disagrees  with the outcome, it accepts the adjudicators 
recommendations other than the refund of Mr As deposit. It says that it would be fair and 
reasonable for it to refund the deposit  pro-rata  to the time that Mr A has had the car and that 
8% interest is unrealistic. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Renault Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr A. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to him was a new car and I consider 
that it was reasonable for him to expect  that it would be free from even minor defects. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the car 
must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
Ref: DRN25261632There are clearly issues with the cars multi-media  system. Mr A says that he first noticed the 
issues within a few weeks of the car being supplied to him but ignored them  until they 
became more frequent. He returned  the car to the dealer for repairs  to the system  about a 
year after the car was supplied to him  and further repairs  have been attempted - but Mr A 
has provided evidence  to show that its still faulty.  I dont consider that its reasonable to 
expect a new car to have  issues  such as these and I consider it to be more  likely than not 
that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr A. 
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mr A to reject  the car 
and for him to be returned, as nearly  as is practicable, to the position that he would have  
been in if the car hadnt been supplied to him. So I consider that Renault  Finance should end 
the hire purchase  agreement, arrange for the car to be collected from Mr A and to refund  the 
deposit that he paid for the car (with interest).  Mr A has been able to use the car and has 
made the monthly payments  under  the agreement. I consider that Renault  Finance should 
keep the monthly  payments as payment for the use that Mr A has had from the car. 
I consider that refunding the deposit  in full and not refunding  any monthly payments is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A was supplied with a car that wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality, hes been  deprived  of the use of the money that he paid as the deposit  
and I dont consider  that it would be fair or reasonable  to deny him the ability  to use that 
deposit towards another car (if he chooses to do so).
8% is the current rate of interest payable on judgment debts and customers  often  have to 
pay a higher rate of interest  if theyve borrowed money to cover a loss or make a payment. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that a different rate of interest 
would be appropriate  in these circumstances. So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable for 
Renault Finance  to refund Mr As deposit in full and to pay interest on that deposit  at the rate 
that Ive specified below.
These events have clearly  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr A. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Renault Finance to pay him £250 to compensate him for that distress 
and inconvenience   and to remove the hire purchase agreement from his credit  file.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and I order RCI Financial 
Services Limited, trading  as Renault Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr A  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr A the deposit of £5,487.49 that he paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Remove the hire purchase agreement from Mr As credit  file.
5.Pay £250 to Mr A to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
Ref: DRN25261633HM Revenue & Customs  requires Renault Finance to deduct  tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 3 above. Renault  Finance must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax 
its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2526163