K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited. She says that it has made 
errors when  making  pension payments  to her which have resulted in her receiving a tax bill 
from HMRC.
background
Mrs C has a pension with Aviva. During  the tax year 2017/18 she requested two drawdown 
payments from the pension fund. Some time after the payments were made she received a 
tax bill for almost £2,000.  Mrs C believes the tax bill has arisen because Aviva  didnt  process 
the payments  correctly  and told HMRC that the pension income was her only income when it 
wasnt. Aviva must have known she had other  income as she was still making pension 
contributions into the pension  fund.
Aviva didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that it had made the payments to her in the correct 
way by applying  the relevant tax code.  It also said that it had explained that additional tax 
may arise after payments  were made.
Mrs C didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service.  
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He didnt think that it should  be upheld.  He 
was satisfied that Aviva had made  the drawdown payments in line with the tax codes HMRC 
expected it to apply. Aviva  had made  it clear  that there may be additional tax to pay. He 
explained that tax deducted  from the first drawdown  payment had then been  refunded  at the 
time of the second payment because of the way the tax codes  had been  applied. The 
second payment  had set out that there  was a tax refund.
Mrs C didnt agree with the adjudicator.  She explained that her fear was that if she made 
another drawdown payment this would result in her being overtaxed.  
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I agree  with the adjudicator. I dont  uphold this complaint. Im satisfied that Aviva calculated  
any tax payable in accordance with the tax codes it held for Mrs C. The payment it made in 
June 2017 was taxed in line with an emergency  tax code but on a month one basis.  This 
can result  in a higher  tax deduction. Thats part of the explanation for what happened here. 
When Mrs C made  a later drawdown during the same tax year, the total amount drawn down 
was within  the nil rate band of the emergency tax code. So this meant no tax was considered 
payable and the tax deducted from the first payment  was refunded in the second payment. 
The overall effect was that Mrs C had paid no tax on the two sums drawn down.
The correspondence with the second payment  explained that tax had been refunded and 
said that Mrs C may not actually be entitled  to a refund. That would depend  on her 
circumstances and any other income  she may have. Mrs C did have another  income  and so 
tax was payable  and thats what led to the claim from HMRC.
Ref: DRN26469982But at the time Aviva  made the payments it was applying the relevant tax codes. It was only 
in September  2018 that it received a personal  tax code for Mrs C. This tax code meant that 
all payments to her from that point onwards would be subject to tax.
I can understand Mrs Cs upset when she received a tax bill. But I dont think Aviva  was 
responsible for that. It used the correct tax codes  and told her that the second payment 
involved a tax refund.  Its correspondence said that she may not be entitled  to that refund 
and tax may be payable.  It is true that Aviva gave information to HMRC suggesting that this 
pension was Mrs Cs only income.  That wasnt correct. But equally, theres nothing to 
indicate that this information led to HMRC not providing Aviva  with a more  accurate tax code 
for Mrs C sooner than it did. So its not clear that it made any difference. And as I have said,  
Aviva always  warned that tax may be payable on the drawdown  payments.
I dont believe Avivas  actions will result in Mrs C facing any additional  tax liabilities. Theres  
no reason to believe shell be paying  tax on tax thats already been  paid, as she fears.  
my final decision
So for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2646998