K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that MYJAR  Limited  gave  her loans that she couldnt afford.
background
Miss D took out six short term loans  with MYJAR.  Loan 1 was repayable by one repayment, 
Loans 2 and 4 were  repayable by three  monthly  instalments, Loan 3 was repayable  by six 
monthly instalments  and Loans 5 and 6 were repayable by 12 monthly instalments. All of the 
loans have been repaid.  Miss Ds loan history  is as follows:-
LoanDate  
TakenDate  
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 08/01/2016 29/01/2016 1 £100.00 £116.80
2 01/02/2016 29/04/2016 3 £275.00 £132.45
3 01/05/2016 28/10/2016 6 £400.00 £118.79
4 30/10/2016 06/01/2017 3 £300.00 £146.78
5 06/01/2017 09/01/2018 12 £700.00 £104.27
6 09/01/2018 31/12/2018 12 £325.00 £49.10
MYJAR said that it had asked Miss D for her income and regular expenditure and it 
conducted a credit check. It also took into account Miss Ds borrowing from other lenders 
and a minimum amount  for household expenditure. MYJAR told this service that Loans 3 
and 4 were clearly unsuitable  for Miss D as her disposable income (as calculated  by 
MYJAR) didnt cover her repayments. So it said it would refund all interest and charges paid 
by Miss D on these loans plus 8% statutory  interest and it would remove the adverse entries 
for these  loans on Miss Ds credit  file.  
The adjudicators first view didnt take account of MYJARs offer on Loans 3 and 4, but he 
upheld the complaint about Loans 5 and 6. 
MYJAR disagreed and responded  by referring  to its offer. It also said that the loan amounts 
didnt always increase and the monthly repayments decreased so there was no reason to 
believe the loan repayments were unaffordable.  
The adjudicator then issued a second  view to take account of MYJARs  offer.  He said that as 
the offer was in line with this services  approach, he wouldnt investigate Loans 3 and 4. But 
he also recommended  that Loans  5 and 6 should  be upheld as by Loan 5 Miss Ds overall  
pattern of borrowing showed that she was persistently  reliant on short  term loans.
MYJAR responded  to say that the increased  checks it carried  out, as shown in its business 
file, were proportionate.  MYJAR also said that due to the lack of information in the 
adjudicators view, it wasnt certain that its data was considered by the adjudicator. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN21148672As MYJAR  has offered to settle Loans  3 and 4, I havent investigated these loans below. But 
I have taken them into account when assessing the affordability of Miss Ds other loans and 
included MYJARs proposed redress for these loans  in my award.
For all of Miss Ds loans  the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
MYJAR has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss D. I note from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Miss Ds income as well as details about her housing  costs, 
Ref: DRN21148673other monthly expenses  and other  credit  commitments. MYJAR said that it made  
adjustments to these  figures using its own internal affordability calculations.  
I also note that MYJAR carried out credit checks and Ive seen a summary of its credit  
checks which I will refer to below. 
Ive also seen Miss Ds credit report.  This showed that Miss D had around three  defaulted 
accounts in June 2013 and August 2014. These occurred  at least 16 months before her 
application for Loan 1 indicating that Miss D had historic financial issues  which shed 
appeared to have recovered from. Otherwise Ive not seen any other  adverse information  on 
Miss Ds credit report that I think should have caused additional concerns to MYJAR before 
Loans 1 and 2.   
Ive thought about whether MYJARs  checks were proportionate for the loans. I note that for 
Loans 1 and 2, Miss D needed to pay between £116.80 and £132.45 to repay  them. I can 
see that the repayments were relatively  modest compared to the income of £1,100 Miss D 
declared before Loans 1 and 2.  
I can also see that MYJARs credit checks before Loan 1 showed that Miss D hadnt opened 
any new accounts in the previous three months and that her unsecured  loan balances  were 
estimated to be £264. I think  its unlikely that Miss Ds other borrowing might have suggested 
to MYJAR  that her finances were  under  pressure.  Overall  the checks dont appear to contain 
anything that I think  should have caused additional concerns to the lender about Miss Ds 
financial situation. I cant see that weve received an indebtedness report  at the time of 
Loan 2 so I dont know  what MYJAR would have seen on that. But, I dont  think  the 
repayment amounts  on Loans 1 and 2 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused 
Miss D financial  difficulty.
I think that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing Loans 1 and 2 were  
proportionate. And given  Miss Ds repayment amounts for Loans 1 and 2, what was 
apparent about  her circumstances at the time,  and that these were her first loans with the 
lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to ask her for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at this stage there wasnt anything in the information Miss D provided or the information  
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what she was saying. So I dont think MYJAR was wrong to give Loans 1 and 2 to 
Miss D.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending with Miss D to see if there  was a point 
at which  MYJAR should reasonably have seen  that further lending  was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Ds case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 5. I say this because:
By Loan  5, Miss D had borrowed five loans from MYJAR in around  a year with barely  
a break  between the repayment of one loan and the next loan being taken out. 
Loans 2 onwards had been taken within two days of the previous loan being  repaid. 
So I think MYJAR ought to have  realised it was more likely  than not that Miss D was 
Ref: DRN21148674having to borrow  another  loan to cover  the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances.
Miss D wasnt  making any real inroads to the amounts she owed MYJAR and the 
amount borrowed  on Loan 5 was the highest  shed borrowed from MYJAR during her 
borrowing history with it.
I can see that as MYJAR didnt stop lending at this point Miss D went  on to take out another  
loan for a further twelve month period on the day she repaid Loan 5. By approving  this loan, 
MYJAR was extending Miss Ds indebtedness  by a further year. I think that Miss D lost out 
because MYJAR continued  to provide  borrowing from Loan 5 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ds indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Miss Ds ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
The fact that all the loans were repaid does  not mean that they were repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Miss D undue difficulty. 
I note that MYJAR  was concerned that the data it had provided hadnt been  considered.  I 
would like to reassure it that I have considered the information  it provided to us in its 
business file and its credit checks.  But I havent  recreated affordability assessments of the 
loans in dispute. This is because I think the number of loans and the pattern of lending here 
are of concern. 
I note that MYJAR  said that the amounts Miss D borrowed  did not continue to increase. I 
acknowledge that the amounts Miss D borrowed fluctuated. But all the loans taken from 
Loan 3 onwards were substantially higher than Miss Ds previous loans. And even though  
the amounts Miss D borrowed varied,  I think MYJAR acted unfairly by allowing Miss D to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
I also think that Miss Ds borrowing history might have suggested to MYJAR that it was likely 
her finances  were under strain, and that she was most likely borrowing to support her day to 
day living costs and debt repayments rather than for a one-off emergency.  Miss D continued  
to reborrow in a way that suggested  a long-term dependence  on expensive short-term  credit.  
And when  a consumer  borrows  numerous  loans over a long period of time, its most likely 
that the loans  arent being used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
As MYJAR  will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost lending 
firms that a high volume of relending..may  be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending 
patterns. And I think that is the case here.
So I dont  think MYJAR should  have given  Miss D Loans 5 and 6, and I think  it needs  to pay 
Miss D some  compensation relating to these loans along with what  it has already offered in 
relation to Loans 3 and 4. 
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Ref: DRN21148675Refund all interest  and charges Miss D paid on Loans 3 to 6 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ds credit file; and
Remove all entries about Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss D paid on Loans 3 to 6 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 3 and 4 from Miss Ds credit file; and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 5 and 6 from Miss Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114867