K820x#14complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the mortgage advice she received from Bank  of Scotland Plc 
(trading as Halifax) in 2014. She says she was told her mortgage balance would be around 
£1,500 in January 2020, but shes recently  discovered itll actually  be around £3,300 instead.
background 
Ms K applied for this mortgage in 2014 and it completed on 2 January 2015. Ms K borrowed 
£15,000 on a repayment basis over a six-year  term. The monthly payment was around £230.
When Ms K received her annual mortgage  statement at the start of 2019  she contacted 
Halifax as she said it didnt look like the account  was on track  to only have £1,500 
outstanding in January 2020 which is what she said shed been told. 
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Ms K referred  her complaint to us. Our adjudicator  didnt 
uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ms K didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Ms K wont take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed her complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
I dont doubt that this is very important for Ms K but although Ive read and considered the 
whole file Ill keep  my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  
point its not because Ive not considered  it but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it 
in order to reach the right outcome.
Ms K is basing her complaint on some figures scribbled on some paperwork. She says the 
adviser wrote these and they show she was told thered be £1,500 left in January  2020. 
Ms K has said Can  I ask, if the Halifax doesnt believe this then can they explain what  the 
£1,500 means  on the calculations [the adviser]  put on the piece of paper? What do they 
think it equates  to, when [the adviser] told me it would be the balance in January  2020.
Thats easy  to answer; the figure £1,500 could relate  to many different  things.  Ive had a look 
at the figures  and Ive found  two other  possible explanations very quickly:
The first is that Ms K borrowed £15,000  and theres also 10% written on the paperwork. 
The mortgage Ms K entered into allowed her to overpay 10% of the balance  each year,  
a sum which equates  to £1,500. So that note could relate  to the amount Ms K was 
allowed to overpay each year.
The second, which I think is the most likely,  is that the adviser  carried  out various  
different calculations based  on different monthly  payment  amounts. This is shown by:
o  A figure of 272 next to the number 5; if you look at the mortgage over a five-year  
term the monthly payment needed would  have been about  £272. 
o  Underneath this is the figure 231, which is the approximate monthly payment over 
the six-year term Ms K took.
o  Then theres the figure 250 by the 1500, and if the mortgage  was taken over a 
six-year term,  but Ms K slightly  overpaid each month  so she paid £250 rather than 
Ref: DRN24652522£231, then at January 2020 the outstanding balance would have been around the 
£1,500 that Ms K says was discussed.
This is pure conjecture,  and I only mention  it to show  Ms K that there could be other 
explanations for the figures she says the adviser wrote. When  considering any complaint like 
this, as Ms K is the one bringing the complaint against Halifax, to uphold the complaint 
Ms Ks version needs to be more  likely  than Halifaxs version; not just as likely. And having 
considered everything  I cant  say Ms Ks version  is anything more than just as likely.
Finally, Ms K has said the recommendation letter says she needed  her monthly  payments 
not to change for a minimum period of five years  and no longer than five years on all her 
loan. Shes  right, it does say that. But that relates to the recommendation to take a five-year 
fixed-rate product, and doesnt relate  to the overall  mortgage term. Whilst it does say she 
needed a loan term that finishes before her retirement, it also says she had a maximum 
amount of £240  that she was willing to commit to her monthly payments. 
Something had to give, and Ms K couldnt  have  obtained a five-year  fixed  rate mortgage that 
would have allowed  her to repay a £15,000  mortgage over a five-year term (or leaving just 
£1,500 outstanding at the end of the five years), whilst only paying  a maximum of £240  a 
month. Ms K could have shopped around, but the interest rate she would have needed to 
meet all those requirements simply wasnt available  at the time she applied for this 
mortgage.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied this mortgage wasnt  unsuitable  for Ms K, and so 
I dont think Halifax has done  anything wrong here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2465252