K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  delayed handling his claim on his motor 
insurance policy and then declined it and cancelled his policy. He wants compensation.
background
Mr M transferred the registration of his partner, Miss Rs, car to himself.  Miss R said she 
didnt think there was any finance  on the car and said she was shown proof of this when she 
bought it five months previously. Mr M insured  the car with Aviva and he made a claim for 
the cars  theft two weeks after the policy started. 
Aviva investigated the claim and five months later it cancelled  the policy from the claim  date. 
It also declined the first and a later claim for damage  to another car on the policy. It said that 
Mr S, Miss Rs previous  partner, had finance  on the car and it was unclear  who the cars 
legal owner was. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Aviva  
was entitled by the policy terms  and conditions to reject the claim and cancel the policy if it 
had evidence that a claim was exaggerated or dishonest. Aviva had noted discrepancies in 
how the car had been purchased, who the legal owner was and that Mr M hadnt  disclosed 
points on his licence.  She thought Aviva had reasonably considered  the evidence  available 
and she couldnt  say it had acted incorrectly. She thought Avivas offer of £300 for its delays 
in coming to this decision was fair and reasonable.
Mr Ms representative asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  So its come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Aviva relied on a condition in Mr Ms policy that said if it thinks  a claim is dishonest or 
exaggerated it wont pay the claim and may cancel the policy  from the date of the claim. So 
Ive looked to see if Aviva has reasonably investigated the claim and considered the 
evidence available  before  making  its decision. 
Aviva said there had been numerous inconsistencies provided about the circumstances of 
the purchase of the car. It obtained this information  from what Mr M told it when he took out 
his policy, accounts  provided by Mr M and Miss R, evidence from the finance company and 
an independent investigation.
I can see that there were  different accounts of how the car was bought. Mr M said Miss R 
had bought it from an online site and hed then re-registered it to himself.  Aviva couldnt find 
this online  ad. But it found a later one placed by Miss R. Mr Ms representative said that Mr S 
had bought the car for Miss R. Miss R said shed  then paid Mr S cash  for the car. But Ive 
seen evidence that Mr S was still making payments for the car when it was stolen. He said 
Ms R hadnt  repaid him for the instalments. 
Ref: DRN21781592Mr M and Miss R said there wasnt finance on the car when  he bought it. But Aviva found  
evidence from the finance company that Mr S still had finance owing on the car. Ive seen 
evidence to support  this. 
So Aviva said it couldnt establish who the cars  legal owner was. Aviva  also thought there 
were inconsistencies  in the descriptions  of the cars  finance. Miss R said shed been  shown  
a check that the car didnt have any finance when she bought it. I have seen evidence 
provided by Mr M and Ms R that there wasnt finance on the car when Mr S bought it from 
the first owner. But the finance company said Mr S was still making  payments for the car 
when it was stolen.  
Aviva also noted that Mr M hadnt  told it about  points  on his licence when he took out his 
policy. But, as his policy had already  been  cancelled, it said this was no longer relevant.
So I think Aviva  reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence before 
deciding to reject the claim and cancel the policy because of the inconsistencies in accounts 
about the ownership and finance  of the car. 
Aviva said it hadnt acted efficiently in dealing with Mr Ms claim.  It offered him £300 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused by the delays. From what I can see, 
there were delays caused by both sides. But I think Aviva could have avoided  some delays 
and given Mr M its decision  sooner. So I think its offer is fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with the level Id award in similar circumstances.  I dont require it to increase this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2178159