K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver  Account (SA) in 2008. 
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In September  2008 Mr C took out a SA which incurred a monthly  fee.
Mr C says that when he was sold the SA, he was told it was the right account for him and he 
wasnt offered a fee free account. He says the SA was unsuitable for him.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint  but Mr C disagrees so the complaint comes 
to me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
I think that Lloyds  mis-sold  the SA to Mr C and Ill explain  why.
Lloyds says it recommended the SA to Mr C and advised him to buy it. So Lloyds was 
required to determine  whether it was suitable  for him or not.
Mr C took out the SA in September 2008.  He was young and he says he had not had a fee 
free bank account before.
The benefits  of the SA included European  family travel insurance; AA car breakdown  
service; and mobile phone insurance.  It cost £7.95 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he did not have a car or a mobile phone  and I think  its 
more likely than not that his income was not high. Mr C says he did travel in Europe up to 3 
times a year.  
Lloyds has provided  evidence that it discussed the SA with Mr C in a meeting, although the 
record it has provided is illegible. 
However Lloyds has not provided any evidence that Mr C had a car until at least  July 2010; 
or a mobile phone until at least December 2010. And Ive seen no evidence that he had a 
family or beneficiaries that would be eligible for the family travel  insurance.
Lloyds has not provided any evidence that Mr C used  the car breakdown service or 
registered for the mobile phone insurance  until 2013. From the evidence he also only 
appears to have travelled abroad twice  in 2009 and twice in 2011  and made  no claims.
Ref: DRN28965402Lloyds says that the car breakdown service covered him in any car and whether he was the 
driver or not. But Ive seen no evidence he was frequently travelling in other cars. Lloyds 
also says that in its discussion with him he was planning to buy a mobile  phone, but this is 
clearly not the same  as having a phone at the time.  
I have found Mr Cs testimony to be credible  and consistent. In my view the SA was a 
substantial and expensive  product  and at the time of the sale I think  its more likely  than not 
that Lloyds had little evidence or reason to think that Mr C would use very much  of it or that it 
was suitable for him. If he had wanted  to get travel insurance which Lloyds has argued that 
he used, it could have  advised him to buy it separately for a much  lower cost. So I think  its 
more likely than not that Mr C thought he had to or ought to take the SA based on what  
Lloyds said to him, but it was unsuitable for him at that time. 
So I think its more likely  than not that when Lloyds  recommended the SA to Mr C in 2008, 
the SA was unsuitable for him and I think Mr C lost out as a result.
For clarity I note that Mr C took out a Gold  Account with Lloyds in July 2013. Mr C is clear 
that he is not complaining about the sale of the Gold Account. He is only complaining  about  
the sale of the Silver Account (SA). So my decision is only about  the sale of the SA and the 
redress I describe below is only in relation to the SA.
putting things right
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to: 
Pay Mr C the amount Mr C paid each month for the SA.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr C has saved money  because of a better rate on his overdraft by having the 
packaged account and Lloyds can show exactly how much Mr C saved, it may deduct 
his savings from the amount it pays him  but only after it has calculated  the two points 
above. Lloyds  must  explain  clearly  and simply to Mr C how it has worked  out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr C accepted my decision.
Lloyds sent a legible copy of the record of the discussion it had with Mr C at the time of the 
sale and the signed application form.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28965403Id already taken  into account that Lloyds  had discussed the SA with Mr C and advised him 
to take it, and Id accepted that he signed  an application form for it. So having  looked at the 
legible documents that Lloyds sent me in its response, my conclusions remain as outlined in 
my provisional findings above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold Mr Cs complaint and require  Lloyds Bank Plc to 
pay redress  to Mr C as outlined in my provisional putting things right  paragraph above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2896540