K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that TSB Bank plc allowed further  fraudulent transactions on her account  
after fraud was initially  discovered.
background 
Miss S has a classic account  with TSB which she uses for everyday transactions. In early  
March 2018 she was contacted by TSB as it had noted suspicious activity  on her account.  
This included transactions abroad  and an account check  by Netflix; no money  was debited 
by Netflix at this time. TSB stopped the transactions, cancelled Miss S existing card and 
issued her with a new one. 
However, on 13 March 2018  a transaction was made to Tastecard following a request for 
payment under the old card details. Miss S called TSB to dispute it, it was immediately 
refunded and further requests blocked.  In April 2018  a payment for £9.99 was made  to 
Netflix and some transactions to M&S and Homebargains were  made.  Miss S complained 
about these as she didnt authorise them.  
TSB were satisfied Miss S likely made  the M&S and Homebargains transactions  as they 
were made by CHIP  and PIN and Miss S had said her card had stayed with her and she 
hadnt shared  her PIN details. It also declined to refund the Netflix payment as this had been 
made using  the new card and it didnt think there was sufficient  time for the new card to be 
compromised. So it referred Miss S to Netflix. Netflix explained the new card details had 
been provided by TSB but it agreed the account looked fraudulent so cancelled  it and 
refunded the transaction. 
Miss S has asked us to look into her complaint about the transactions to Tastecard and 
Netflix. Our adjudicator  was satisfied the disputed transactions had been refunded 
(Tastecard had been refunded twice) and so Miss S no longer had any financial loss. But 
she asked TSB to offer compensation as both Tastecard  and Netflix  had only obtained her 
new card details because  they were  provided  by it. TSB confirmed it had blocked further 
payments to Tastecard but it hadnt  done  the same  with Netflix and so it agreed to pay £100 
compensation. Our adjudicator felt this was fair but Miss S doesnt believe this is sufficient   
she is still without a card as she is worried about further fraud  happening.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is unfortunate Miss S has been  the victim of a fraudster. When unauthorised transactions 
are made I would expect  a bank to refund them. Im pleased to see TSB refunded the 
Tastecard transaction  straight away. 
I know Miss S is concerned this transaction went through. But this happened on 13 March 
2018, soon after she was sent her new card and only a few days  after the previous  fraud  had 
been discovered. It seems likely to me this was connected to the previous fraud on the 
account, but it hadnt yet come to light as there  were  no previous transactions  for Tastecard 
on the account to dispute.  So I dont think TSB was aware this was something Miss S hadnt  
authorised. And because  of that there wouldnt have been  any reason for it to block  the initial 
transaction. As it refunded  the transaction when it was notified it wasnt authorised Im 
satisfied it acted fairly (in fact the transaction was refunded twice).
Ref: DRN23829992I do, however,  think TSB should have  done more in relation to Netflix. When  the previous 
fraud was flagged to Miss S, she confirmed  she didnt  have an account with Netflix. Although 
no payments were taken  at this time, TSB was on notice a fraudulent account had been set 
up and so it should have blocked any future  payments  to Netflix. But it didnt do so and £9.99  
was taken from the account on 9 April 2018.  And rather than recognise its error in allowing 
the transaction and providing  the new card details, it referred  Miss S to Netflix. And it was 
only as a result of Netflixs actions that Miss S received a refund. 
I therefore dont  find TSB acted fairly  or reasonably in relation to the Netflix  transaction.  It 
was on notice of the fraudulent account  and so it should have realised its error as soon  as 
Miss S notified it. By not doing so and referring  her to Netflix she was put to some  
inconvenience by not only notifying TSB of the disputed transaction but also by having to 
follow this matter up herself. I agree with the adjudicator that Miss S should be fairly 
compensated for that. In all the circumstances I find £100 it has agreed  to pay to be fair for 
the trouble she has been put to. 
I understand Miss S is worried about  the future security of her card details  and so hasnt 
agreed to a new card from TSB. It is unfortunate she has been the victim of fraud and 
whether or not she wants a new card is a decision for her to make.  All I can say is that if 
there are any further transactions  that werent authorised by her, she can ask TSB to look 
into those. I appreciate this may be of little comfort.  But I cant  account for future  events that 
may or may not happen.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank  plc to pay Miss S £100  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2382999