K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr M and Miss C say HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr M and Miss C and HSBC a provisional  decision to explain why I didnt  think the PPI 
was mis-sold but why HSBC should  refund some  of the PPI premiums in full and pay back 
some of the cost of the rest. I said Id consider anything else Mr M and Miss C and HSBC 
wanted to give me by 22 February 2019. I said if HSBC and Mr M and Miss C replied sooner 
I could issue my decision sooner. Mr M and Miss C did reply sooner with more information. 
HSBC replied saying  it didnt have anything else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Miss Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr M bought  the PPI when he took out a mortgage.  The policy covered unemployment and 
disability for Mr M only. Before the PPI was set up, Mr M signed a separate PPI declaration 
to say he wanted and agreed  to the cover.  He also signed a separate direct  debit  to pay for 
it. So I think Mr M agreed to the PPI knowing it was something separate  from the mortgage.
Mr M has said the adviser was pushy  and gave the impression  that he had to take the policy.  
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think Mr M was pressured into buying  the PPI. Also,  
although I dont  know exactly  what was discussed, Mr Ms mortgage  offer described the PPI 
as optional insurance . Taking into account the paperwork that in my view also made it clear  
the PPI was separate from the mortgage, on balance I think  HSBC  likely made it clear the 
PPI was optional.  So I think Mr M chose to take it and HSBC  made it clear he didnt have to.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And from 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr M was in paid work  
and eligible for the policy.  And I think it was possible at the time of the sale that in future he 
might be without work, and could  register as unemployed  and be actively seeking  work. Or 
he might  in future suffer illness and be too sick to work. So I think  Mr M couldve claimed on 
the disability or unemployment cover if the circumstances arose,  from what  Ive seen of the 
policy terms. So although Ive thought  about what Mr M has said about this, I dont think 
Mr M was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover.
Also the PPI helped protect a mortgage  a large, long term liability secured on Mr Ms 
home. For a successful unemployment  or sickness claim, the PPI would pay out for up to 
twelve months  and on top of any payments Mr M received for sickness or redundancy. And 
by helping with the mortgage costs, the PPI benefit would help protect  Mr Ms savings at 
what could be a difficult time if he were sick or out of work. Mr M has said his partner 
couldve covered  the payments in those  circumstances. But I still think  the household faced 
a loss of income  in those circumstances that meant  Mr M had a need for the cover.
Ref: DRN26931282I say this taking into account  what Mr M has said about the business  he worked for looking 
after him if need be, and there  being  enough  money in the business to pay him if he came 
out of work. I havent seen anything to show that the business had to cover Mr M like this. 
But, in any case,  the business could only cover Mr M like this if it were successful enough. I 
dont see how the adviser could  have  been  sure the business Mr M worked for would be 
successful enough  in future to provide this sort of cover  especially if a lack of work led to 
Mr M being able to claim the PPI unemployment benefit. So in my view the possibility that 
the business might look after him if he wasnt working didnt make  it wrong  for HSBC  to 
recommend that Mr M consider taking  the cover. And I still think  the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take the cover. So it looks to me like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And, for the reasons  Ive already given above, it seems like the cover wouldve been  
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the cover was affordable. Taking 
everything into account, I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Mr M off 
taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr M and Miss Cs points, including what  theyve said about being 
asked to sign and not being  shown the small print. But in the light of what Ive already said 
further above how the PPI was presented, I think the fact Mr M was taking the cover,  and its 
optional nature, was made clear. 
Mr M and Miss C say when they went to re-mortgage they had significantly more savings. 
And they point out that the advisers notes say they didnt want  the cover. But, for the 
reasons Ive given  above, Im not persuaded this was the situation when the PPI was taken 
for the mortgage  in 2005.
Mr M and Miss C have said HSBC agreed with them that the PPI served no purpose in 
February 2006. I havent seen enough to agree  that this is what was said at that time. But 
notes from October say Mr M and Miss C turned down PPI at that time because neither of 
you are concerned about redundancy. And I think its likely this was their attitude for the 
whole mortgage  at that time. 
Mr M and Miss C have also sent notes  from the end of August 2006 that are very similar. 
The notes say Mr M rejected PPI because you are not concerned about redundancy. So I 
think at that time HSBC  was aware  that Mr M didnt want to pay for redundancy cover.  And 
so I think its fair for HSBC to refund in full the PPI premiums paid from that point onwards.
For the remainder of the premiums, what Ive said above means  HSBC  doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M and Miss C. But HSBC will pay back  some of the cost 
of that PPI to Mr M and Miss C because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M and Miss C about that. Because HSBC didnt tell 
Mr M and Miss C, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. I think that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN26931283HSBC should  refund in full all PPI premiums Mr M and Miss C paid from 30 August 2006 
inclusive. HSBC should also pay Mr M and Miss C simple interest at 8%* per year on each 
payment from when they paid it until they get it back. HSBC  can deduct from this redress 
any refund  it has already  made of these premiums.
For the remaining  premiums HSBC has to pay back to Mr M and Miss C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  HSBC should also pay 
back to Mr M and Miss C any extra interest they paid because  of that. So HSBC  should pay 
back to Mr M and Miss C the extra  they paid each month because the commission  and profit 
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. HSBC should  also pay Mr M and Miss C 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*HSBC has to take basic  rate tax off this interest.  Mr M and Miss C can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. HSBC UK Bank  Plc should put things  right by doing what Ive 
said above.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M and Miss C. But HSBC  UK Bank Plc has to pay back  the premiums 
paid by Mr M and Miss C from 30 August 2006 and, for the rest of the premiums,  pay back 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2693128