K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC Bank  Plc stopped a payment he made online to a relative,  closed 
his account and didnt give him the money  which had been in his account. 
background
In October  2017, Mr H logged into his online  banking and transferred £200 to a relative.  His 
relative was abroad  studying. This is why Mr H was sending  him funds. 
A few days  after the transfer Mr Hs relative  called him to tell him he never received the 
money. Mr H called HSBC and was told he needed  to provide some additional information.  
Mr H says this was on 7 November 2017 and the bank records say that the call happened on        
6 November 2017.
Mr H called HSBC on 9 November and the complaint  department apologised for the delay. 
Mr H called into branch  a week later and was told his account  had been closed on                 
8 November 2017 and he would receive  a letter and a cheque for the remaining balance  in 
the post. 
Mr H called back to the branch  on a number of occasions as he didnt  received the funds or 
an explanation  as to why his account  was closed.  
Mr H complained to HSBC in December about  the issue he had. HSBC  didnt  issue  a final 
response because  Mr H got in touch with our service and we started  looking into the case  for 
him. 
Our investigator looked at the case and didnt uphold it. She explained she didnt think HSBC 
had done anything wrong in either  withholding  Mr Hs funds or closing his account.
Mr H disagreed and asked that this case be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. 
HSBC is expected to adopt a set of procedures for administrating accounts, making funds 
available, dealing with requests to make payments from accounts and closing accounts. In 
doing so, HSBC is expected to comply with their legal and regulatory obligations.
the transfer to his relative
Before HSBC could  process Mr Hs transfer to his relative they asked him to provide some 
additional information. I dont think it is unreasonable for the bank to ask for additional  
information when  money is being transferred abroad.  Mr H provided  this information in 
November 2017  following  a call with HSBC.
Ref: DRN25655932At this time HSBC was carrying out a review on Mr Hs account. I do believe it wouldve been  
helpful for them to explain  to Mr H in November  that they were reviewing his account. So,   
Mr H wouldve known there  was a possibility that his account would close  and the payment 
to his relative wouldnt be processed. 
Following the review HSBC decided to close Mr Hs account. And they decided they would 
close the account immediately. As a result of this Mr Hs transfer  to his relative was 
cancelled. I recognise  how frustrating - and inconvenient - it is to not be able to make 
desired transactions. But in this case Im satisfied there is an explanation for why the 
transaction was not processed. This is because HSBC made a decision to close Mr Hs 
account it wasnt able to process  the transfer. 
reviewing the account and the decision to close the account
A bank  is entitled  to end their banking relationship with a customer  by closing  accounts
they hold with it; just the same as a customer of a bank is entitled  to decide to end the
relationship themselves. No explanation is required  to be provided and I cant fairly and
reasonably require the bank to provide banking services simply because  a person, or
business, is already  a customer and wants to remain  so. 
However, HSBC must follow their policies and procedures when administering  the closure of 
the account. HSBCs  terms and condition allow them to close  an account without providing 
prior notice. And HSBC were relying on that term when they closed the account. So Im 
satisfied in Mr Hs individual circumstances  HSBC were entitled to close his account  and 
followed the correct  process. 
Taking everything into account,  I cant say HSBC acted inappropriately, in dealing  with        
Mr Hs account over the period that the funds havent been accessible by him, or in how it 
closed his accounts.
access to funds
Im mindful that Mr H hasnt  received access to funds  that were  in his account  when the
account closed.  Im satisfied that in Mr Hs individual circumstances the bank is entitled to 
hold his funds  even though the account  has closed. 
HSBC are following  their legal and regulatory obligations and this is the reason why Mr H 
hasnt been able to access his funds.  Because of this, I consider there is no basis on which  
to say HSBCs actions  and position have, in my view, been  unfair  or unreasonable.  
Given my conclusions, although I acknowledge Mr H believes that he hasnt been  treated
fairly. I dont  consider  that theres  any basis on which I can fairly and reasonably require
HSBC to release  the funds to Mr H, pay compensation, provide any further explanations or 
take any other action.
Ref: DRN25655933my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against HSBC  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565593