K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about  the amount they have been told they still owe on their 
secured loan with Elderbridge Limited.  Theyve  calculated that theyve  already  made 
payments totalling  more  than the amount of the original loan, but still owe over £50,000. 
They have also said they werent told when their loan administration  was transferred from 
the original provider to Elderbridge in 2016.
background
In 2007 Mr and Mrs S took out a £73,000  loan which was secured on their home. The term 
of the loan was 20 years. The interest  rate chargeable was variable  and at the time it started  
was 7.6%.  The interest rate has remained in the region of 7% throughout.
In 2011 Mr and Mrs S experienced a period of financial difficulties where  they either missed 
payments completely or paid less than was due. It was not until the spring of 2013 that they 
began to make the full contractual  payments and by this time the arrears  had reached  
almost £8,000. It appears the arrears  were capitalised into the loan amount, which means  
that the amount was added to the capital balance  to be paid off over the remaining term of 
the loan with a higher monthly payment due. From the time the arrears started to build the 
balance attracted interest that hadnt been  planned for within the original loan agreement.  
At the end of 2015 Mr and Mrs S missed a further two monthly  payments due to illness. 
From February 2016 they paid £30-40  extra per month to reduce the arrears.  However,  
further payments  were  missed in June 2018, February 2019, March 2019.  
Elderbridge also agreed  that Mr and Mrs S could make payments below the contractual 
monthly amount  from September 2019.  This again added to the arrears  balance.
Elderbridge responded to Mr and Mrs S complaint in April 2019, but it didnt uphold the 
complaint. It provided a complete  breakdown  of the loan payments to show  the arrears 
balance Mr and Mrs S had been given was correct. It apologised if they felt a telephone 
message asking them to contact it about the arrears on the account  had been  threatening in 
tone; this was not its intention. It also confirmed that a payment  arrangement  entered  into to 
clear the June 2018 missed payment had been for a three-month  period, not six months  as 
Mr and Mrs S believed.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with the response they received from Elderbridge  and referred 
the complaint  to this service. One of our investigators considered  the complaint, but didnt 
recommend that it be upheld.  Mr  and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and 
asked for a second  opinion on their complaint. They pointed out that they had made nearly 
£100,000 in payments and believe they have  paid too much interest.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr and Mrs S has said they werent  told the administration of their loan had been 
passed to Elderbridge in 2016. As our investigator  explained, the lender does have the right 
to make such arrangements. I am also aware that notification was sent to all consumers at 
the time of the change so they were aware  and understood  when the payment details on 
Ref: DRN21963132their bank statements  changed. So, while Mr and Mrs S may not remember  receiving this 
letter, I think it most likely it was sent to them.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs S are disappointed about the outstanding balance on their 
account, but I havent seen anything that indicates  Elderbridge has made  any mistakes in 
calculating the amount  owed. As our investigator explained, in the early years of such  
arrangements the majority of the payments made  go to pay interest  rather  than capital. 
Mortgages and secured  loans will attract a lot of interest over the term and, depending  on 
the interest rates applied, the total payments can amount to more than the original 
borrowing. 
In addition, the earlier arrears were  added to the loan balance  in 2013. Both this and the 
subsequent arrears will have meant  that additional  interest has been payable. Although extra  
payments were being made toward repaying  the arrears, it was a modest amount and further 
payments were missed  which increased  that balance  again. 
It appears Mr and Mrs S have been  treated fairly  during the periods they have  been  in 
financial difficulty and Elderbridge has done what it can with payment arrangements  to assist  
them both during those periods and when trying  to reduce the resultant arrears. I havent 
seen any evidence to indicate Elderbridge has done anything wrong or made any errors.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 13 September 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2196313