K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains about charges and fees applied to her account by Lloyds Bank Plc and 
says they havent taken  account of her personal  circumstances  in the way they have  dealt 
with her.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October  2019,  a copy of which  is attached as it forms 
part of this final decision. Both the parties have commented on the provisional decision and 
Ive summarised their comments here.
Miss T says she regularly became distressed during calls to Lloyds from 2006 onwards. She 
says thats when her financial  difficulties began  and that Lloyds suggested she open  a credit 
card account. She says they took a long time to send the card to her, so in the meantime 
she had to use her bank account for spending.  She says thats when  the bank charges 
started and shes never recovered financially from that point.
Miss T says that Lloyds knew from October 2009 that she was in distress and financial 
difficulty. She says they agreed in 2014  to refund all their charges from the previous six 
years. But she thinks  the amount they refunded  only amounted  to around one years worth  of 
fees. And she says the default  should  have been  backdated  to before 2014 because  Lloyds 
were aware before  that of the difficulties she was experiencing.
In relation to Lloyds  appointment  of a debt collection  agency,  Miss T says its not correct  
that the agency has a vulnerable team.  She says both agencies were unaware  of her 
vulnerability and that they contacted her by text, letter and phone calls - all of which  she 
found intimidating. She says she had to speak  to them on the phone  to explain her situation, 
after which they agreed to stop communication. She says this was at great  cost to her, 
health-wise.
In my provisional decision,  I referred  to a court ruling  from 2009  which  said that bank 
charges cant be challenged on the basis of fairness. Miss T says that, because she is in 
financial hardship, the ruling  doesnt apply to her.
Lloyds say they believe they acted  fairly  and tried to support Miss T. They refer in particular 
to the fact that they backdated  the account  and have already  refunded  fees. They  say its a 
difficult balance to strike between helping a customer in the short term and taking a long 
term approach. They  say that if they were to close customers  accounts and apply a default 
at the first sign of difficulty, it could cause issues for customers in the long run. They say its 
fair to give the customer a chance to get things back on track in the first instance. And that 
they did this in Miss Ts case by putting a control in place to stop fees if the overdraft limit 
was exceeded.
Lloyds also say that Miss T was managing her account during 2014 with no sign of financial 
hardship. Theyve queried why they should  refund fees back to 2014 if the default date of 
April 2016 is fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive considered all the 
Ref: DRN21964722comments and new information provided  to me by both parties since I wrote  my provisional 
decision. Ive taken all of this information  into account in making this decision, but Ive 
focused here on the issues  I think are most relevant.
Miss T has given me lots of information about  her situation dating back to before 2013.  I 
explained in my provisional decision  that I can only look back as far as 28 March  2013 when 
considering this complaint. Miss T has provided  further details and evidence of her health 
issues. She considers  her circumstances to be exceptional and says she thinks  this service 
should be able to look further  back into her complaint on that basis. Im grateful to Miss T for 
the additional information shes  provided.  I understand  her strength of feeling  here so I know 
she will be disappointed with this aspect of my decision. But I havent seen anything which 
changes my mind about the extent to which I can consider her complaint.
Miss T has provided  a letter from Lloyds  dated  12 August 2014 in which  they acknowledge 
that she is in financial  hardship. The letter confirms that Miss T contacted  them in 2009  to 
make them aware of her financial  difficulties  and acknowledges that they didnt  offer any 
support at the time.  The letter says they will pay compensation of £250 to acknowledge the 
upset and frustration  caused by this and that they will refund charges incurred in the 
previous six years. The sum of around £500 was credited to Miss Ts account in August 
2014. That letter gave  Miss T the option of referring the issue to this service within six 
months. She didnt  bring a complaint to us until 2019. So I dont have the power to look back 
over the complaint as it was put to Lloyds in 2014.  Im looking at the complaint  which  was 
put to this service  in 2019 and I can look back into that as far as 28 March 2013.
I said in my provisional decision that Lloyds should refund to Miss T all interest, charges and 
fees applied to the account from June 2014  onwards. I used that date because  the 
information I had before indicated that Lloyds only became aware of Miss Ts circumstances  
at that point. However, the letter now provided  by Miss T confirms that Lloyds were made 
aware of her financial difficulties in October  2009  but failed to take appropriate action. This 
means that, for the entire period of time which I have the power to look into, Lloyds were 
aware of Miss Ts financial position. In light of this, Im amending my findings. I now think  
that the redress for this complaint should date back to 28 March  2013. 
I realise there is overlap between this date and the letter  from Lloyds dated 12 August 2014. 
But one aspect of this complaint is Miss Ts request for a breakdown of the fees which  have 
been applied  to her account.  I provisionally recommended that Lloyds should provide to 
Miss T a calculation of all interest,  charges and fees applied to the account together with 
confirmation of what they have already refunded. These calculations  and confirmations  
should now go back to 28 March 2013,  for the reasons above.  The amount which Lloyds 
should refund to Miss T is the difference between the two figures. So any refunds which  
have already been made to Miss T will be taken into account in the calculation of the amount 
now due to her, meaning she wont be refunded for the same charges twice.
In relation to the Supreme  Court ruling,  I said in my provisional decision that it meant I 
wouldnt ask Lloyds to refund charges  on the grounds of fairness.  But I went on to consider 
whether there were other reasons why they should  refund  any charges. And I concluded  that 
Lloyds were aware of Miss Ts personal circumstances, including  her financial difficulties. 
And on that basis, I thought they should refund all interest, charges and fees from the date of 
their knowledge.  My thoughts on that point  havent changed, other  than to amend the date 
which the redress should go back to as Ive said above.
Ref: DRN21964723Ive considered Miss Ts comments about  Lloyds appointment  of the debt collection agency.  
I realise this had a significant impact on her. But I understand Lloyds have now taken the 
account back in-house, which I think is a fair approach here. Lloyds have already paid £100 
to Miss T as compensation for unwanted  telephone contact. I still think  thats a reasonable 
amount so Im not going to ask them to do any more about  that.
Ive taken account of Lloyds  comments and I understand the difficult  balance  a bank has to 
strike in a situation  like this. But the information  available to me confirms  that Lloyds were  
aware of Miss Ts situation even earlier than I found  previously. And theyve acknowledged  
in letters  to her that they didnt do enough  at the time.
Lloyds say that, after their letter of August 2014, Miss T was able to move  forward with the 
account. They say that shows it was the right approach  to try and keep the account on track, 
rather than sending it to Recoveries at that point. I think it was reasonable not to send the 
account to Recoveries. But, for the reasons above  and in my provisional decision, I think  
Lloyds should  have done more at the time to recognise Miss Ts circumstances. They say it 
was clear that Miss T was experiencing difficulties again from 2016, which  is why they 
backdated the default to then. I said in my provisional decision that I didnt think Lloyds 
needed to backdate the default any further. That was because I cant say how things would 
have turned out if Lloyds had acted differently from 2013/2014. I havent changed my mind 
about that, so Im not going to ask Lloyds to backdate the default any further than they 
already have. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc must:
provide to Miss T a calculation of all interest, charges and fees applied to her account 
from 28 March 2013 onwards;
provide to Miss T a breakdown of the interest, charges and fees theyve  refunded 
from 28 March 2013 to date; and
refund  to Miss T all interest, charges and fees applied to the account from 
28 March 2013 onwards  which  havent already been  refunded. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21964724copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss T complains about charges and fees applied  to her account by Lloyds Bank PLC and says they 
havent taken account of her personal circumstances  in the way they have dealt with her.
background
Miss T had a Lloyds account  with an agreed overdraft facility. While the overdraft was in use, Lloyds 
applied interest, charges  and fees to the account. Since around  2010, Miss T has suffered with health 
issues which have had a significant and ongoing impact on her life. She isnt able to work and says 
she has been  in financial  difficulty  for around the last ten years.
Miss T says that, in around 2013, she contacted a debt charity and made a proposal to Lloyds to 
repay the overdraft. But no repayment plan was put in place. In 2015,  Lloyds passed Miss Ts account  
to their Collections  department.  In late 2017, the account was closed and transferred to an external 
debt collection agency.  Miss T raised concerns  about this so Lloyds brought  the account  back  in-
house. In around January 2019 it was transferred to another debt collection agency.  
Miss T says that fees and charges have  been  applied  to her account unfairly and incorrectly since 
2006. She says shes asked  Lloyds to add up all the charges for her but they havent done so. Shes  
unable to do this herself as a result  of her health issues.
Miss T says that her health  conditions make it very difficult for her to deal with Lloyds and manage the 
issues surrounding the account. She finds telephone contact  very difficult  and says that Lloyds 
continued to communicate with her in this way even though she had asked them not to. Miss T says 
that Lloyds have  been  aware of her vulnerable  status  since 2010 but she doesnt think theyve taken 
account of it in the way they have dealt with her or the account. Miss T says that the involvement  of 
the debt collection  agency  has caused her further distress and has impacted on her health.
When Miss T complained to Lloyds, they said they didnt  think  theyd done anything  wrong by 
transferring her account  to the debt collection agency. But they offered to bring it back  in-house if that 
was what Miss T wanted.  Lloyds accepted theyd made a mistake by not closing  her account  earlier, 
which would have stopped  interest,  charges and phone communications from their Collections team. 
They said they should have done  this in April 2016, so theyve refunded all charges applied  to the 
account since  then. They say theyve backdated the default on Miss Ts credit file to April 2016. And 
they say theyve already paid Miss T compensation of £100 as an apology. 
Miss T wasnt  happy with Lloyds response, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said that, under the rules which apply to this service,  we could only look at whats 
happened since March  2013. So she investigated the complaint from that date onwards. She thought  
that Lloyds were aware of Miss Ts situation from June 2014 and that they could have done more to 
help her at that stage.  She recommended that they refund all interest and charges on the account  
from June  2014. But she didnt think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to have appointed a specialist 
debt collection agency  in 2019.
Lloyds werent happy with our investigators  findings. They say they did take steps to help Miss T from 
2014. They say that, in December  2015, they refunded fees of around £300 dating back  to March that 
year. They say that, with hindsight, its easy to say that the account should have been referred for 
recovery in 2014. But that, at the time, they were  trying to support Miss T and bring the account  back  
on track, rather than sending it for recovery and applying a default  at the first sign of difficulty.
Ref: DRN21964725Miss T didnt agree with our investigators findings either. She questions  the decision that some of her 
complaint is out of time, on the basis that her circumstances are exceptional.  She says she was too ill 
to challenge the bank charges before now. She maintains that theyre unfair. And she says that, 
because shes too unwell to add up all the charges  which  have  been applied over a number of years,  
Lloyds should have done this for her as a reasonable  adjustment.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
jurisdiction
Im going to start by considering the scope of our jurisdiction here, because  Miss T has said she 
thinks we should be able to look further back into her complaint. The dispute resolution rules  (DISP) 
which apply to this service  set out what we can and cant look at.
DISP 2.8.2 says that the Financial Ombudsman Service cannot consider a complaint which is referred  
to us more than (a) six years after the event  complained  of; or (if later)  (b) three years from the date 
on which the complainant became aware  (or ought reasonably to have  become aware) that he had 
cause for complaint.
This is the rule on which  our investigator based her view.  The rule does  allow us to consider  an older 
complaint if there are exceptional circumstances which mean the complainant  couldnt comply with 
the time limits. Miss T says this was the case for her. I realise contact with the bank has been 
extremely difficult for Miss T for a long time. But I can see that she has managed to communicate with 
them from time to time,  even though  it affects her health. And she says shes  been in contact with 
third party organisations over a number  of years, most notably a debt charity. So, whilst I realise  it 
wouldnt have been without considerable difficulty, I do think Miss T could have brought  her complaint 
earlier.
As the charges Miss T is complaining about date back to 2006, I need to consider when Miss T ought 
reasonably to have been aware  that she had cause to complain about them.  Our investigator thought  
that was in 2014,  or 2015  at the latest.  Looking  at all the available information, I agree that late 2015 
was the very latest that Miss T should have become aware of cause to complain. So she needed  to 
bring her complaint by late 2018 for us to be able to look back  that far. As the complaint was brought 
to us in 2019, we can only look back  six years from then, to 28 March  2013.  So Ill look at the charges  
and fees applied by Lloyds since then.
bank charges and fees
Part of Miss Ts complaint is that Lloyds charges are unfair. The charges  Miss T is complaining about  
were considered by a court case in 2009, which  concluded that they couldnt  be challenged  on the 
basis of fairness. Although  Im not limited  to the position a court  might reach, I havent seen anything  
here to suggest that the charges were unfair. So I wont be asking Lloyds to refund them for this 
reason.
Ive gone on to consider whether the charges  were applied correctly. I havent seen  anything  to 
indicate that Lloyds didnt apply the charges in line with the terms and conditions  of the account. 
Lloyds can charge  interest and fees when a customer uses  an overdraft to borrow  money and the 
charges depend on whether its a planned or unplanned overdraft. Ive looked  at Miss Ts statements 
and, from what Ive seen, the charges have been applied correctly. So I wont be asking Lloyds to 
refund them on this basis  either.
But another  relevant consideration for me in deciding this complaint is whether or not Lloyds knew 
about Miss Ts personal circumstances. She says she was experiencing  financial difficulty  and that 
her health issues affected her ability to manage her account.
Ref: DRN21964726The information Ive seen shows that Miss T contacted Lloyds  in June 2014 and told them  she was 
worried about  her finances. They noted that she was potentially in financial difficulty  at that point. The 
following month,  Lloyds notes record that Miss T was in financial stress  and was in contact with a 
debt charity. And in August 2014, Lloyds noted  that Miss T was in difficulty due to illness.  So Im 
satisfied they were aware of her financial  position from June 2014 and her health issues from August 
2014. I havent  seen anything which makes me think they should have known of her situation before 
that.
I can understand Lloyds comment  that its easier with hindsight to say that they should  have acted  
differently in 2014. But I think  that, based on the information available  to them at the time,  they should  
have done more  to assist Miss T then. Shed been a customer for a long time and was being 
proactive in telling them about her situation.  I think the information  she gave them and the status of 
her account  at that time should have  made them  act differently.
In these circumstances, its difficult  to know what would  or shouldve  happened if Lloyds had acted  
more positively  and sympathetically at the time. So I wont be telling Lloyds that they need to 
backdate the default any further than they already have. But I think that any steps Lloyds should have 
taken wouldve limited  the cost to Miss T of managing her account. So I think  that Lloyds should  
refund all the interest and charges applied to Miss Ts account from June 2014 onwards. They say 
theyve already refunded charges between March and December 2015 and from April 2016 until the 
account was closed. 
Miss T says she cant add up the charges and interest herself  or check whats  been refunded. She 
says shes  asked Lloyds to do that for her and I think thats a reasonable  request here.  So I think 
Lloyds should add up all the charges and interest which  theyve applied to Miss Ts account from June 
2014 and confirm  the refunds theyve  made in that period and provide their calculations  to Miss T. 
The difference  between the two figures is what they should now refund to Miss T.
management of the account
The final aspect of Miss Ts complaint which I need to consider is the way Lloyds have interacted  with 
her and particularly their decision to refer her account to a debt collection agency. Miss T is unhappy 
that Lloyds or their agents continued to contact her by phone when  she says shed asked them not to. 
The information available to me indicates  that in May 2016 Miss T asked Lloyds not to communicate  
with her by phone. I havent  seen anything which confirms  she made  this request any earlier. Lloyds  
say the compensation of £100 which  theyve already  paid to Miss T covered this element of the 
complaint. I think that was a reasonable amount in the circumstances so Im not going to ask them  to 
do any more. 
As to the appointment of the debt collection agency, Lloyds terms and conditions  dont limit their 
ability to transfer  their rights or interests in the account. So I find that they were entitled to refer the 
account to an agency and it was up to them as a business to decide  whether they wanted to do that. 
The first time Lloyds transferred the account to a debt collection agency, Miss T asked for it to be 
brought back in-house. So I can see why shes upset that her account has now been passed to 
another agency. But Lloyds  have explained that the agency theyre  using now has a dedicated team 
which can assist vulnerable customers. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Lloyds to appoint  
them. And theyve offered to take the account back in-house if Miss T wants them to, which I think  is 
fair.
Ref: DRN21964727my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to:
provide to Miss T a calculation of all interest,  charges  and fees applied to her account from 
June 2014 onwards;
provide to Miss T confirmation of the interest, charges and fees theyve refunded  from June 
2014 to date; and
refund to Miss T all interest, charges  and fees applied to the account from June 2014 
onwards which havent already been refunded. 
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2196472