K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy Lloyds Bank Plc havent  sent some  of his credit  card statements to his 
home address. 
background
Mr B contacted Lloyds  to let them know he hadnt received his June 2018  credit card 
statement and that upon receiving the July 2018 statement, he saw he was charged a late 
payment fee and interest. Mr B had also contacted Lloyds in 2014  and 2017 about not 
receiving particular credit card statements. 
Mr B has asked  for all fees and interest to be refunded and hes also asked for an 
explanation from Lloyds as to why hes not receiving some  of his credit  card statements to 
his home  address.
Lloyds apologised  for not responding  to Mr Bs concerns sooner and offered him £125 as 
compensation for the inconvenience caused.  Lloyds told us they correctly applied  the fees 
and interest to Mr Bs account and that they hold an accurate address for Mr B on their 
systems. So Lloyds didnt think it was their error  that Mr B hadnt  received some of his 
statements. They also offered Mr B the option of managing his account  via online and 
telephone banking. 
This case was considered  by two of our case handlers. They  thought Lloyds had been 
sending the credit card statements to the right address  so overall,  they didnt think Lloyds  
had done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed and said he believes there  was something 
wrong with Lloyds postal procedure. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  not to uphold the complaint 
and Ill explain why. 
Have Lloyds done  anything wrong in not sending Mr B his credit card statements?
I can appreciate how frustrating it must be for Mr B not to have received some  of his 
statements. Lloyds have  sent me copies  of some of Mr Bs credit card statements from 2014 
to 2018.
I appreciate Mr B says Lloyds should still send him  credit card statements even if there  
wasnt any activity or outstanding balance on the account. The account terms and conditions  
explain we will provide  you with a statement each month there has been activity  on your 
account, a payment is required  or if you owe us anything at your statement date. So I dont 
think Lloyds did anything  wrong in not sending Mr Bs statements in January 2018 to 
April 2018 when there was no activity or an outstanding balance  on his credit  card account 
as this was in line with the terms and conditions.
On the credit  card statements, the second line of Mr Bs address  appears to be incomplete, 
but the rest of it including the postcode  is correct.  Mr B has told us the area he lives in is 
known as what appears as the second  line of his address on the statements. Mr B doesnt 
Ref: DRN29278682think the incomplete address should be the cause of the problem - he says the name of the 
house has remained unchanged for a number of years and the postcode is exclusive  to a 
small number of properties in his road.  
Mr B believes there may be a problem with Lloyds preferred mail carrier who are failing to 
deliver his credit card statements. Mr B also mentions this issue has happened to one of his 
family members. Weve made enquiries with Lloyds about this and they have no record of 
Mr Bs credit  card statements being undelivered or returned. I havent seen any information 
that makes me think there is a wide scale problem with their mailing carrier and if there was, 
Id expect it to have come to Lloyds attention sooner. Im unable to comment  on the issue 
Mr Bs family member  may be experiencing with Lloyds. 
There is no requirement that the statements  be sent by recorded  delivery . Lloyds have 
offered Mr B other methods of managing his account such  as online or telephone  banking. 
Mr B has said he doesnt wish to use these facilities and this is up to him. But I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Lloyds to suggest  other  ways  of monitoring his account.
Did Lloyds apply any late fees and interest  correctly?
I note Mr Bs comment that he wants a refund of all interest charged and fees applied  for all 
the times  hes failed  to receive his statements. 
Lloyds terms and conditions say a fee can be charged if the minimum repayment isnt made 
by the due date and that interest will also be calculated daily on the total amount owed. The 
terms and conditions also say Mr B must pay the minimum  payment due even if he didnt 
receive his monthly  statements. In circumstances where the minimum repayment wasnt  
made by Mr B, Lloyds  charged a late fee and applied interest where  Mr B didnt clear the 
outstanding balance. I think it was fair for them to do this, given  that there were various 
methods open  to Mr B to manage his account,  and his payment due dates were around the 
same time every month.
Do I think Lloyds offer is fair?
Lloyds offered Mr B £125 for not responding to his concerns sooner despite receiving his 
letters in 2018.  I think the offer of £125  compensation fairly recognises the inconvenience 
caused to Mr B in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but unfortunately, we cant 
always get to the bottom of things that have gone wrong. If Mr B isnt confident in the service 
Lloyds are providing, its for him to decide  whether to continue with this account.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Ref: DRN29278683Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2927868