K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  applied a different rate of interest to a loan he 
took with them to the one they initially gave to him. 
background
Mr T brought  his complaint to us a he was unhappy with the response hed received from 
HSBC. In respect of the rate of interest offered they didnt uphold his complaint and said they 
were really sorry  if Mr T felt the marketing letter from them  gave off the impression that the 
loan would be approved with a 6.7%  APR.  They  said that marketing  letter explained that the 
rate offered  is representative  and therefore,  subject to change.  So it may not be the rate hed 
receive. They also offered  sincere  apologies  for the poor experience Mr T went through 
when he closed the loan early. They told him feedback had been provided  to the 
representative and his manager,  so that further training and improvements can be 
considered. And they refunded him the £810.65  interest as promised.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint, he found HSBC had acted fairly when dealing  
with the complaint. He thought HSBC acknowledged incorrect information  regarding the loan 
APR had been given to Mr T and the bank  had compensated  him to a level which the 
investigator thought  was fair in the circumstances. And he also thought the debit interest 
charge was applied in line with the loan terms but that HSBC  had acted  fairly  when  it agreed  
to waive  this charge  based on what Mr T was told when he contacted them to cancel the 
loan.
Mr T didnt  agree. He felt the investigator was unclear in his understanding of this case when 
he found the offer from HSBC was conditional/pre-check.  Mr T said this wasnt the case. The 
offer hed received was a formal offer with a rate of 6.7% and it was offered after a credit 
check had been  done. He asked  for an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion  so I shant repeat that here.  Theres not a great deal I can add to what the 
investigators already  told Mr T. I think  hes covered most points  quite clearly.  
From the records HSBC have sent I can see Mr T originally called them at 14.19 on 9 April 
2019 and queried the rate on the loan being 12.9% not 6.7% as he believed.  In the call 
HSBC told him that was a bank error and offered Mr T £100 compensation. Mr T accepted  
the compensation and proceeded with the loan that day at the higher rate of 12.9%. 
HSBC later told Mr T the admission  in the call was an error  and that marketing letter 
explained that the rate offered is representative  and therefore, subject to change. I cant  
disagree with that and Ill explain  why. 
All the information  Ive seen satisfies me the offer made to Mr T was subject to further  
approval. The covering  letter of 9 April 2019  from HSBC to Mr T making  the offer clearly 
states that its conditional and goes on to list a number of those.  The final one of those 
conditions is confirmation  of Mr Ts monthly income. The letter goes on to ask the applicant 
Ref: DRN23780612to note that rates  are subject to status  and our assessment of your financial circumstances. 
We consider a combination of factors to calculate  the rate of interest that is applied to your 
personal loan,  including your past account history, your past credit  history and other 
personal details  that we hold. So I cant see that HSBC  did anything  wrong  when they 
offered him the loan at the higher rate.
But even if I were to find that HSBC  had made  a mistake in the rate offered, I cant  see Mr T 
has suffered any loss here. Although  they didnt have to - as hed cancelled the loan just 
outside the 14 day cooling off period - HSBC  agreed to refund Mr T the interest  hed paid. 
And theyve  paid him £100 compensation which I wouldve  considered a reasonable 
response for any inconvenience had a mistake been made.
So, for the reasons Ive explained  I think HSBC have already  responded reasonably  to this 
complaint and I dont  require  them to take any further action here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378061