K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly  recorded late payment  markers on his credit 
file.
background
Mr M had raised a previous complaint against Lloyds. He was told the bank wouldnt record 
anything on his credit  file while it was being investigated. But Lloyds had backdated 
Mr Ms missed  payments.  And itd added markers  to his credit  record. So he wants  them  
removing.
Lloyds said it was sorry Mr M thought  it wouldnt report anything  while  it was investigating his 
complaint. The bank said it had a responsibility  to report accurate and up-to-date information 
to the credit  reference  agencies. 
During Mr Ms conversation with Lloyds in September 2018 there had been some initial 
confusion as the call had been quite  distorted.  Lloyds said its agent didnt fully understand 
what Mr M was asking.  But itd been  made clear at the end of the call the bank would have 
to report to the credit agencies that the account  was overdrawn. This had also been 
confirmed during an earlier call in May 2018. But Lloyds apologised for any confusion 
caused during  the difficult call. And it credited  £200 to Mr Ms account.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Lloyds response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He explained  Lloyds had a duty to supply  accurate 
information to the credit  agencies. And he hadnt  seen any evidence that Mr M had been  told 
his credit file wouldnt  be affected by his overdraft.
Mr M didnt  agree. Hed asked Lloyds  not to record anything on his credit file. And Lloyds 
shouldve explained  in writing what would happen. So hes asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. He had raised a complaint against Lloyds. And he was 
sure Lloyds had said it wouldnt record anything on his credit  file while it was being 
investigated. So Ive looked carefully  at everything  Mr M and Lloyds  have said. 
During Mr Ms conversation with Lloyds in May 2018 the bank  said the account would be put 
on hold while the complaint was looked  into. And this may be where some of the confusion 
has arisen.
Mr Ms account was overdrawn and Lloyds explained the account  would be defaulted if the 
overdraft wasnt cleared. The default  would  be recorded on Mr Ms credit file for six years.  
Lloyds confirmed any action against  the account  would be put on hold during the 
investigation. But it also explained to Mr M that the account would still show  as being in 
arrears.
Ref: DRN29057222As our investigator has explained, banks have a responsibility to report how an account  has 
been managed.  Mr Ms account had exceeded its limit. So it was reported in the same  way a 
late payment might  be reported  on a credit card account. Theres nothing to suggest Lloyds 
made any mistakes that led to Mr Ms overdraft. So the bank had to report  the true position 
on the account to the credit agencies. And the overdrawn position was recorded  until the 
balance was repaid.
I do appreciate how upsetting  this must  be for Mr M. And I realise  the markers on his credit 
file are affecting his ability to raise a mortgage. But, based on everything  Ive seen, I cant 
really say Lloyds has done  anything wrong.  Mr M had an unauthorised overdraft. And his 
account wouldve  have  been placed  in default  if Mr M hadnt cleared the outstanding 
balance.
Lloyds did agree to suspend  that process  while it investigated Mr Ms previous  complaint. 
But I do think it was made clear to him that the status of the account would still be reported  
to the credit  reference  agencies. As Ive explained,  Lloyds has to report  accurately how 
accounts are being managed. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest the reports were  
incorrect or the overdraft  had been  created due to any mistake  by the bank.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. And I realise he feels it wasnt explained 
to him in a clear  manner. But I cant say Lloyds has made any mistakes. And I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2905722