K820x#14complaint
Miss P and Ms S complain that they cant access money on a pre-paid card issued by a 
company that was subsequently taken  over by Wirecard Card Solutions  Limited  (Wirecard).
To settle  matters they would like Wirecard to allow them to access  their funds.
background
Miss P and Ms S are represented in their complaint  by Mr P. In 2016  Miss P and Ms S 
received  €600  each  when a flight theyd booked was cancelled. The funds were loaded on a 
prepaid Visa card provided by a company Ill refer to as C. Wirecard has since taken over 
Cs prepaid card services.
Miss P and Ms S didnt  open the envelope  containing the prepaid cards  until recently and 
found the cards had already expired. They complained to Wirecard and asked for access  to 
their funds. Wirecard  said it hadnt done  anything wrong because the card was only valid for 
one year in accordance with the terms and conditions.  Wirecard suggested they should  
approach the airline to see if it would extend the pre-paid card or provide a refund.
Unhappy with Wirecards response they referred their complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt think their complaint should be upheld. He looked at the user guide for the 
prepaid card and noted that the funds were stated to be available to use up to the expiry date. 
The guide also made clear that the reserved balance belongs to us and in case of situations 
including.card expiry.the Issuer reserves  its right to retain  the unspent reserved balance 
remaining on your card.
He didnt think Wirecard had made an error because he didnt  think  it was responsible for Miss P 
and Ms S opening the envelope after the cards  had expired.
He thought  Wirecard had acted reasonably in suggesting that the parties should contact the 
airline to find out if it could  extend the pre-paid card or if it would pay compensation to an 
account of their choice.
Mr P disagrees completely  with the adjudicators view. In response our adjudicator thought  it 
was unreasonable  to assume that a prepaid  card doesnt have an expiry date. Mr P doesnt 
agree that the money should be forfeit after the expiry date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss P and Ms S were disappointed to discover  their prepaid cards 
had expired by the time theyd opened the envelope.  The question I need  to ask myself  is 
whether Wirecard was at fault here.  I dont think it was so Ill explain why.
Mr P thinks  the money on the card shouldnt be forfeited  just because the prepaid card 
expired and he referred us to some situations  where this isnt the case.  I appreciate his 
concerns but Im not able to comment on the way other  businesses  operate.  Im afraid our 
service doesnt have the power to make  any finding  about the enforceability of a provision  
Ref: DRN26766332whereby funds are forfeited once a prepaid card has expired. That would be a matter for a 
court to decide.
However, I can and have looked  at whether they were treated fairly by Wirecard  . By way of 
background airlines are required to pay compensation in certain circumstances. The relevant  
regulations say that if compensation  is provided by way of travel vouchers or other  services  
this must be with the signed agreement of the passenger. I think  its more likely  than not that 
they chose to accept  the prepaid card at the time.
In any event, its not unusual for prepaid  cards  to have an expiry  date. The User Guide 
makes clear  that the reserved balance will be available for you to use up to the expiry  date 
on the last card you are given. I understand that the prepaid cards were  valid for one year 
which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
I think it would have  been clear to them  - had they opened the envelope - that the cards had 
an expiry date. I cant fairly hold Wirecard responsible for Miss P and Ms S failing to open  
the envelope for such a long time after the prepaid cards  were issued. So I think  Wirecard 
treated them  fairly.
Im sorry  this isnt the outcome Miss P and Ms S were  hoping for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P and Ms S 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2676633