K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with what U K Insurance Limited (UKI) did after he made a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
background
Mr A has legal expenses  insurance with UKI. In October  last year a judge said a surveyor  
should be instructed  to help resolve a boundary  dispute between Mr A and his neighbour. 
Mr A was unhappy with the report the surveyor then produced. He contacted  UKI at the end 
of November as he wanted to pursue a professional  negligence claim against the surveyor. 
UKI said this was something  it could potentially fund but asked  for evidence Mr A had 
entered into a contract with the surveyor (and when that was). It says despite sending a 
number of reminders this wasnt provided until April this year. It then referred  the matter to 
panel solicitors to see if the claim had reasonable prospects of success  (as required by the 
policy terms). Mr A says he did provide the requested information earlier but UKI delayed in 
considering this. And this delay adversely impacted his court case. 
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had done anything wrong as he didnt think Mr A had 
provided the information UKI requested prior to April this year. Mr A didnt agree. So I need 
to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A has a number of different complaints with UKI about matters  relating to his 
dispute with his neighbours. But in this decision Im only considering  the claim hes made for 
professional negligence against the surveyor  and in particular whether theres  been  any 
delay by UKI in progressing this. 
Mr As policy  does  cover him for contract  disputes but not where the contract  was entered  
into before  the policy started.  So I think it was reasonable UKI wanted  evidence to show 
Mr A had entered into a contract  with the surveyor and what the date of that contract was. 
And I can see it explained this information was required when  it first registered  his claim. It 
also asked Mr A for this in December and again in March following further contact from him 
about this issue.  It looks  like Mr A did intend  to provide UKI with a copy of his instructions to 
the surveyor in January.  Unfortunately  he appears to have sent that email to himself  in error. 
It does appear he sent this information to UKI in March. But that email only included  his 
instructions to the surveyor.  It doesnt appear the surveyors  acceptance of those  instructions  
was provided to UKI until April. And there  doesnt  appear to have been any delay by UKI in 
then referring the matter  to panel  solicitors  for them to assess whether the claim enjoyed 
reasonable prospects of success.  
Ref: DRN24980672I dont think it would  have  been reasonable to expect UKI to do that until it was in possession 
of the information it had requested about the contract. And I can see it did tell Mr A his claim  
wouldnt move  forward until this was received. I know  Mr A was dealing with a number of 
other claims  at this time and I can understand why he might have become confused about 
what was required.  But I dont think thats because  of anything UKI got wrong. So I wont be 
asking it to take any further action.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 24 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2498067