K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that FirstRand Bank  Limited  (trading as MotoNovo Finance MotoNovo)  
didnt explain the administration fees that would be added to the final payment on her hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  and that these fees were too high.
Background
Mrs P entered into a HPA with MotoNovo in February 2016. The final amount she 
needed to pay under this agreement was £293.77. 
Mrs P said that her regular payments were  £134.77 and there was a £10 option to 
purchase fee. She said the remaining £149 of the final payment was an administration  
fee. Mrs P said that the administration fee wasnt explained to her when she entered  into 
the agreement  and that MotoNovo hadnt given her an adequate explanation regarding  
this charge. 
MotoNovo said that the fees were  set out in the original agreement  that Mrs P signed. It 
said by signing the agreement Mrs P had agreed to its terms and agreed that everything 
had been verbally  explained to her.
Mrs P didnt  agree and brought her complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs P doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and reasons for it.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons:
Mrs P signed the HPA and in doing  so agreed  to its terms and conditions. I have 
looked through the agreement and can see that on the first page it sets out that there  
will be 35 monthly  payments of £134.77  followed  by a final payment of £293.77. 
Therefore I find it reasonable to accept that Mrs P should have  been  aware  of how 
much the final payment  would  be. If she wasnt happy with this then she could have  
raised it at the time.
The agreement also contains a box setting out the costs of the agreement. This 
includes the deposit, cost of credit  and interest  as well as setting  out the two 
administration fees (Admin Fee Part A £199 and Admin Fee Part B £149) and the 
purchase fee of £10. Therefore I find that Mrs P was provided with the information 
she needed to be aware that the agreement included two administration  fees and a 
purchase fee. The second administration  fee (Part B) was included  in her final 
payment along  with the purchase  fee.
Mrs P has said the fees werent explained to her at the outset.  I cannot  say what  was 
said at the point of supply.  However  the HPA and the pre contract  credit  information 
both set out the fees and the payment amounts. Mrs P signed the agreement and so 
she accepted  the terms including the payment amounts. Had she not ben happy with 
the fees she could have challenged  these at the time.
Ref: DRN21381342There is nothing to suggest that the fees were misrepresented  in any way to Mrs P 
and the agreement sets out the costs  and payments due so I do not find that 
MotoNovo was wrong to charge the final payment amount.
Mrs P said that she wasnt provided  with the service she should  have  been  on the 
calls. I have listed to the calls and I think she was provided  with a reasonable level of 
service. On the call in February  the final payment was explained to her and then 
further information regarding the administration fee was given in the April call.
Mrs P said that when she has challenged what the extra £159 was for she was told 
that it was to do with paperwork  for the car and then she was told it was to do with 
removal of checks from her credit file. She said she could do this for free. She also 
said that the ownership didnt need  to be transferred  to her as she already owned the 
car.
I note the comments that Mrs P has made.  However, in the signature box of the 
agreement it clearly  states that Mrs P will not become the owner of the vehicle until 
all the payments have  been made.  The terms of the agreement  further state  that 
The Vehicle shall remain our property  until you pay the Option to Purchase  Fee or 
the Final Payment, as the case may be. As already noted  the last payment amount 
was set out on the agreement. I understand her comments about the cost of the work 
involved in the final transfer but I also accept that MotoNovo  will have set an 
administration fee to cover its operational costs  of the agreement. As this was set out 
on the agreement, and Mrs P signed the agreement, I cannot say it is unfair for this 
to be charged.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against FirstRand Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2138134