K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that George Banco Limited  (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Miss S was given a single  loan by GBL. She borrowed £4,200 in October 2015 that she 
agreed to repay in 60 monthly instalments. A family  member agreed to act as guarantor for 
her borrowing.  Although Miss S faced a number of problems making her repayments  on this 
loan, it was fully repaid  in April 2017.
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the checks 
GBL had done  before agreeing the loan had been sufficient. And he thought that better  
checks would have  led to GBL deciding that the loan wasnt  sustainably affordable for 
Miss S. So he asked GBL to pay Miss S some  compensation.
GBL didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Miss S accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss Ss complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time GBL gave this loan to Miss S required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so GBL had to think about  whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Miss S. In practice  
this meant  that GBL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Miss S 
undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other  words, it wasnt enough  for GBL to simply 
think about the likelihood of it getting  its money  back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Miss S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN27852912the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether GBL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Miss S.
GBL gathered some information  from Miss S before  it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It then used some industry statistical  data 
to revise Miss Ss declared expenditure upwards and validated what  Miss S had said about 
her income. And it checked her credit  file. The checks on Miss Ss credit file showed  that she 
was heavily indebted to a large number of other lenders  something I will discuss  further 
later in this decision.
Miss S was entering into a significant commitment with GBL. She would need to make  
monthly repayments for a period of five years. So I would expect that GBL would want  to 
gather, and independently check,  some  detailed information about  Miss Ss financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I dont  think that the checks  it did were  
enough. I think it would have been  proportionate  for GBL to independently  check  the true 
state of Miss Ss finances before agreeing the loan.  
But although  I dont  think the checks GBL did before agreeing the loan were  sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean  that Miss Ss complaint should  succeed. Id also need to be persuaded 
that what I consider  to be proportionate checks would have shown GBL that Miss S couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked  at Miss Ss bank statements, and what  
shes told us and GBL about her financial situation,  to see what better checks  would have 
shown GBL.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that GBL 
should have carried  out. I do think GBL needed evidence to corroborate what Miss S said 
was happening with her finances.  And looking at her bank statements is one way of 
achieving that although there are of course many other ways that level of detail could be 
established. But I think that by looking at Miss Ss bank statements I can get a good idea of 
what better checks might have shown.
As I said earlier Miss S was heavily indebted  to a large number of other lenders when she 
asked GBL for this loan.  This was something  that GBL saw from its credit  checks and 
discussed with Miss S before  agreeing  the loan. At that time GBLs own calculations  
suggested that Miss S needed  to repay  more  each month to other  lenders than she was 
earning. That was clearly an unsustainable  position.
Ref: DRN27852913GBL discussed Miss Ss finances with her. And although it no longer holds a recording of 
that call, it has provided us with a copy of the notes that it took at the time. Those show  that 
Miss S acknowledged that she had fallen into a payday trap and was looking for a personal 
loan to refinance her borrowing. GBL estimated that by refinancing  her payday loans Miss S 
would increase her disposable income by £1,239.  And based on the rest of the information  
Miss S had provided, and its own estimate of her expenditure, GBL calculated  that Miss S 
would have £72 left over each  month after making her repayments on the new loan.
As I said earlier Miss S was entering a significant  commitment with GBL. And £72 isnt a 
great deal to be left with each month, for the next five years,  to cover the costs of any 
unexpected emergencies that would  be likely  to arise.  And to even reach  that level of surplus 
income would  require Miss S to use much  of her borrowing  to refinance her other lending.
Miss S had already clearly demonstrated that she found it difficult managing her money. And 
whilst I accept that some of those problems  were caused by repetitive short term borrowing 
I dont think it was reasonable  for GBL to expect  that its loan would cause the sort of 
resolution that would  be needed to make the repayments sustainably affordable. Miss S 
simply didnt have sufficient disposable  income, or a reasonable track record  of carefully  
managing her money, to suggest  that this loan could be repaid in a sustainable manner. So 
I dont think GBL should have given this loan to Miss S and it needs  to pay her some 
compensation.
And, although clearly  with the benefit of hindsight, Miss S did find it difficult  to make her 
repayments. Within  just a few weeks  of taking this loan Miss S began to borrow once again 
from payday lenders.  That meant that Miss S struggled to make her repayments on the loan 
GBL had given her, and so GBL started  asking her guarantor to make  the repayments  on 
her behalf.
By that time Miss Ss guarantor was seriously  ill. And so it would be reasonable to expect 
that GBL should take care in how it approached those  requests.  But that is not something 
that I should consider as part of a complaint  that is solely between Miss S and GBL.
I have however looked at the contact  between Miss S and GBL during the time she had the 
loan. In particular  Miss S has told us that GBL offered her a top up on her loan whilst she 
was facing problems  making her repayments.  And she says that the settlement figure  she 
was asked to pay was more than the original loan amount  despite  having made a large 
number of monthly repayments.
The emails  that GBL sent to Miss S about  topping up her loan seem to have been  of a 
relatively generic  nature. They didnt for example say that Miss S had already been 
approved for additional lending  instead  they used words such as excellent  chance or 
consider offering. And, as one of the emails  explained, any request  would  need  to be 
considered with regard to Miss Ss current  circumstances and the affordability  of the new 
repayments. So I dont  think GBL did anything  wrong in sending these offers to Miss S.
The loan agreement  that Miss S signed clearly  set out the total amount that she would need 
to repay  on the loan  that amount was of course considerably  more  than she had borrowed 
given the term of the loan and the interest rate being charged.  And the agreement also set 
out that if Miss S wanted to repay  the loan early,  a rebate of the interest payable would be 
calculated in line with the terms of the Consumer Credit Act. So I think  it was entirely 
reasonable that the amount she was asked to pay, when repaying  the loan early, was more 
than her original borrowing.
Ref: DRN27852914putting things right
I dont think GBL should have agreed  to give Miss S the loan she took in October 2015. So 
GBL should;
refund  all the interest and charges Miss S paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ss credit  file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires GBL to take off tax from this interest.  GBL must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct  George Banco Limited to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785291