K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about compensation offered by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  following the stress  
caused by Lloyds handling  of his account  after he agreed to a Packaged Bank Account 
(PBA) with an overdraft in February 2012.    
background
After Mr B was sold the PBA he reached his overdraft limit and his account  went  to the 
collections team in April 2012. Mr B says he was struggling financially at the time and had to 
constantly speak  to Lloyds and ask for his money. Mr B says he found this stressful  because 
he didnt have access to his benefits and asked Lloyds for compensation. Lloyds offered 
Mr B £310  compensation, £30 towards  his costs of calls and £200.90 compensatory interest. 
It also sent a £466.34  refund of interest  and charges to the collection company holding 
Mr Bs outstanding debt.  
Mr B was unhappy with the offer so he asked us to review the complaint. Lloyds initially  
raised an issue with this service reviewing  any charges applied  to the account in 2011  as 
this was more  than six years ago. Lloyds also said its offer was fair. 
Following a conversation  with our investigator, Lloyds again objected  to us considering the 
complaint as it believes it was made out of time.  Mr B has told our investigator he couldnt 
bring the complaint in time because he wasnt well enough. Our investigator felt we could 
consider part of this complaint. He said this service couldnt look at events before 
January 2013.  But he felt Lloyds should offer to write off Mr Bs debt and amend the date the 
default was added to his credit file after considering events  that happened  from 
January 2013.  Lloyds  agreed with the investigator. But Mr B disagreed. He thinks Lloyds 
should pay him more  compensation.  
So this complaint has now been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont have a free hand to consider all complaints referred  to us. The industry  regulator  
has set out rules which determine what  complaints we can consider, from whom  and when.  
The time limits that apply  in this case are that a complaint has to be made within six years of 
the event complained about or, if later, within three  years of when the consumer knew or 
ought reasonably  to have known they had cause for complaint. 
I can consider a complaint made  outside of these timescales when the financial business 
has consented to the complaint being considered,  Mr B has a written acknowledgement  or 
some other record of the complaint  having been  received,  or where  the delay in raising a 
complaint was caused by exceptional circumstances. Lloyds hasnt consented  to all of this 
complaint being  considered and, to be clear, it doesnt have to. So I must consider whether 
the complaint  was made within the time limits  set out in our rules.
In this case Lloyds  records  show that Mr B agreed to take out a PBA and overdraft.  And he 
was then overdrawn in March 2012.  The account went  to collections before being defaulted 
Ref: DRN27070802two years later. Mr B didnt complain to the bank until January 2019,  which  was more than 
six years  after the sale of the PBA.  However,  Mr B is also not happy with the way he was 
treated by Lloyds after the sale of the PBA.  And the stress in having to call Lloyds  to access 
his benefits. 
Im satisfied that the stress caused  by this situation  to Mr B plus the interest and charges 
applied to his account after January 2013  can be considered by this service as Mr B has 
complained less than six years after these events. Ive therefore split Mr Bs complaint into 
two sections so its clearer what this service can and cannot consider. 
Issues Mr B is unhappy about before January 2013
I need to consider when Mr B knew (or ought reasonably to have known) he had cause for 
complaint about  the PBA. And Lloyds  handling of his account (including interest and 
charges applied).  In my view he would have known what was happening to his account 
immediately as a result of his new overdraft. Interest and charges appeared on his bank 
statements, and he and the collections team at Lloyds had numerous conversations about 
his account over a two year period before it was defaulted. Im satisfied this is more  than 
three years from when he ought  reasonably  to have known he could complain to this service.  
Im able to consider any exceptional circumstances which I believe could have stopped  Mr B 
from bringing a complaint  earlier. I note Mr B has been dealing with a serious mental  health  
condition. However,  despite  my sympathy for Mr Bs situation, I believe he could have  
brought his complaint to us sooner or asked someone to help him bring the complaint on his 
behalf. And I havent seen any medical  evidence  to show  Mr B wasnt  capable of bringing a 
complaint since he was given the lending. Therefore, although  he has suffered ill health,  Im 
not satisfied this would have stopped him from knowing  he could make a complaint about 
this matter since 2012. 
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman  Service  has no 
power to consider Mr Bs complaint about  Lloyds  in relation to matters he has complained to 
this service about before January 2013.  
Issues Mr B is unhappy about from January 2013
Mr B states he made Lloyds aware  of his mental health condition in 2011 and it should pay 
him more  compensation. Lloyds has mentioned it has no reason to disbelieve  Mr B in 
relation to his mental health and has offered  compensation in recognition  for the way it 
handled this issue.  However, I can only take this information into account  for events which  
happened after January 2013. 
Lloyds has agreed  to pay Mr B compensation of £540.90 in total, write off the debt and 
amend the date of Mr Bs default on his credit file. This means the default  on this account  will 
start from January 2013 and last for six years. So this will now drop off his credit file. 
I note that Mr B had the benefit  of the money that Lloyds lent to him in 2012. But because he 
is unlikely to repay the loan, due to his mental health and being long term unemployed, Im 
satisfied the offer from Lloyds to write off Mr Bs debt and amend the default  on his credit  file 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I believe Lloyds should have acted sooner than it did when defaulting Mr Bs account. And 
Im satisfied it didnt treat Mr B fairly when trying to recover the debt from him after 
Ref: DRN27070803January 2013.  But I think  the total compensation it has offered is fair in the circumstances 
and fairly  recognises  the way Mr B was treated.  
Because of this, I dont believe Lloyds should  make  any further award to Mr B. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold Mr Bs complaint about issues  after 
January 2013  against Lloyds Bank Plc. Lloyds should wind back  the debt on this complaint 
and amend Mr Bs credit file to show the account  was defaulted in January 2013. Lloyds 
should buy back the debt from the debt collectors and confirm  with Mr B this has now been 
written off.  
I make  no further award against Lloyds Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2707080