K820x#14complaint
Miss L has complained  Bank of Scotland plc (the bank) wont refund money of hers that 
was transferred to someone she didnt intend  it to be transferred to.
background
A large  sum was transferred electronically from Miss Ls account with the bank to a third 
party (the payee), who I understand is known to Miss L. Miss L said at first that shed been  
in a hurry and had transferred the money  to the payee by mistake. Later  she said shed 
given instructions for the transfer  to be made to her savings account and a glitch at the bank 
meant the money  had gone  to the wrong person/account. 
It took Miss L quite  a few days to realise her mistake. When  she contacted the bank, the 
bank tried the same day to recover the money, but without success.  
The payee  offered to enter into a payment plan with Miss L in order  to repay  the money 
over a period  of time,  but Miss L said this was unacceptable to her. She said the bank 
should refund her the money and should  itself enter  into the payment plan with the payee.
The bank investigated Miss Ls complaint but didnt uphold  it. The bank said it had done  
nothing wrong  and had merely followed Miss Ls instructions  in carrying  out the transfer.  The 
bank said it had tried unsuccessfully to recover Miss Ls money on a best endeavours 
basis. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ls complaint. She too concluded the bank hadnt done 
anything wrong. 
In reply, Miss L said:
As above: a glitch at the bank meant the money  went to the payee instead  of to her 
savings account.
Normally the bank  asked her by text to confirm her instructions. The bank didnt do 
so on this occasion. If it had done  so, the mistaken  transfer wouldnt have happened.
Miss L had heard  the payee had used the money to pay off a credit card with the 
bank. This meant the money had still been  in the banks  system  so it should have 
been easy, or easier, for the bank  to get some  or all of the money  back.
The banks actions  had left Miss L in severe financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Miss L but I too 
have concluded  her complaint doesnt  succeed.
I think Miss Ls glitch explanation is unlikely. Theres nothing in the evidence  provided by 
the bank to indicate Miss L intended, or gave instructions,  to transfer  the money to her 
savings account.  Nor is it apparent why a glitch would result in Miss Ls money being 
transferred to the payee.
Ref: DRN26346362The banks records indicate Miss L verified her transfer instructions via the mobile app. I 
dont think the bank is at fault for not requiring or asking Miss L to verify her instructions by 
another means.
Information about the payee is confidential.  However, having reviewed the evidence Im 
satisfied the bank used its best endeavours to recover Miss Ls money. Its unfortunate the 
banks efforts werent successful but that wasnt the banks fault.
I note the investigator  has given  Miss L information  about how she might be able to obtain 
help from an agency regarding her financial difficulties. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2634636