K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) should pay him the money  
for a mobile phone he sold as it was received by the buyer.  
background
Mr A sold a mobile phone  to an overseas  buyer, who paid him using PayPal. 
The buyer later raised a dispute with PayPal  that they had not received the phone. PayPal 
investigated this and found  in the buyers favour. It said that delivery information did not 
match the shipping  address that it held for the buyer. Because  of this PayPal reversed the 
payment for the mobile phone to the buyer  and in doing so pointed to its terms and 
conditions related to proof of delivery:   
11.9 What is Proof of Delivery?
Proof of Delivery for tangible items means online documentation from a postal company that 
includes all of the following:  
a.A status  of delivered  (or equivalent)  and the date of delivery.
b.The recipients address, showing at least the city/country or postcode (or 
international equivalent). 
In complaining about this Mr A said he had evidence that the buyer had received the phone.   
Our investigator looked into this matter and said that PayPal should pay Mr A the money for 
the sale of the mobile phone. They  said that the delivery address wasnt entirely  incorrect  
when comparing relevant details of the overseas addresses. And they were persuaded the 
buyer did receive the phone. 
PayPal disagreed with this. So the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
To be clear this decision only deals with this complaint as explained above. Mr As other 
complaint against  PayPal  is being  dealt with under a different reference  number  at this 
service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so Ive decided to 
uphold this complaint  Ill explain  why. 
I note what PayPal say about its terms and conditions especially in relation to proof of 
delivery; mainly that the index number and address  the phone was delivered to does not 
match the address details  it holds  for the buyer.  Having looked into this, the index  used to 
deliver the parcel wasnt entirely incorrect. The fact there wasnt  an exact  match doesnt 
necessarily mean the buyer didnt receive  the parcel. 
Further, PayPals terms and conditions  relating  to proof of delivery arent the only relevant 
consideration here when determining whats fair and reasonable. In his submissions, Mr A 
has given information  that he says shows he was corresponding by email with the buyer 
about the phone after he sent it. PayPal has confirmed the email  address it holds for the 
Ref: DRN25032492buyer. I note that this matches the address on the information Mr A has given  which 
includes computer screenshots of the email chain.  In broad terms, the email conversation 
relates to the phone not working  in the buyers  country, possibly because of compatibility 
issues. Theres also an image of a phone screen  which displays text about  issues  with the 
SIM card. 
Having closely reviewed  this information, Im satisfied  its reliable  evidence  that is relevant to 
the dispute about whether  the buyer  received the phone. If PayPal failed to consider this 
when it attempted  to resolve the dispute  between Mr A and the buyer, then it risked treating 
Mr A unfairly.
Im satisfied on balance  that the email chain is evidence enough to conclude the buyer did 
receive the phone. I say that because the email  address matches  the address PayPal holds 
for the buyer, and I havent seen anything that would  indicate this wasnt the buyer  
corresponding with Mr A. 
And I consider that if I were to apply the proof of delivery terms exclusively  here without 
giving weight to the other  evidence, which Ive already said on balance shows  the buyer  did 
receive the phone, it would result in an unfair  outcome. It follows  that I must conclude  that 
PayPal is acting unfairly in depriving Mr A of the sale proceeds on the basis that the item 
was not received by the buyer
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint. PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
must pay Mr A: 
£924  which is the amount the phone was sold for;
add simple annual  interest of 8% from the time Mr As payment was reversed up until 
when PayPal make this payment to him. If PayPal deducts income tax from this 
interest, it must give Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2503249