K820x#14complaint
Mr S says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2010.  He says he could not have claimed  on the policy  as he wasnt working and he 
had a serious medical condition.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in July 2010  in connection 
with an unsecured personal  loan. The policy was added to Mr S account when he applied  
for the loan. The loan was for £15,000  and was to be repaid over a period  of 5 years.
The policy provided  life cover only for Mr S and it cost £10.11  each month and would, 
following a successful claim, have repaid the outstanding loan. Mr S repaid the loan early 
and the loan account was closed in February 2013.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Unfortunately, Barclays hasnt been  able to provide a copy  of the call recording. So I dont  
know what was said in the discussion between Mr S and the Barclays representative. But 
the bank has given me details of the script  that it says its telephone  staff wouldve used in 
2010 when Mr S took out the loan and the PPI policy was sold. And based on this script and 
what we know about the sales process , Im satisfied it was optional and that Mr S chose  to 
purchase it. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time.  Mr S told us that he was retired 
and that he has a serious medical condition  so the policy was unsuitable for him. But the 
policy he bought  provided life cover  only  it didnt provide  unemployment cover  or accident 
and sickness cover  so he could still have benefitted from it in full even though he was 
retired. Ive also carefully  looked  at the terms and conditions of the policy, and although 
there were exclusions associated with the life cover on this policy, Mr S pre-existing medical  
condition wasnt excluded. So the policy wouldve paid out in the unfortunate event of Mr S 
death.
Its possible the information Barclays provided about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Mr S chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations that mightve  made it more  
difficult to make a successful claim. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently  
affordable. The loan agreement records the cost of the policy as £10.11 per month and, as a 
regular premium, it could  be cancelled at any point if Mr S decided he no longer wanted the 
cover or could no longer afford it. So I think it unlikely  he wouldve made a different decision 
if better information had been provided.  On balance I think  he would still have taken out the 
policy.
Ref: DRN24056832Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. 
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Barclays Bank UK PLC has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay back  to 
Mr S any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay back to Mr S the extra  he paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405683