K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained about Lloyds  Bank  General Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim 
under his home insurance policy after his property  was damaged by an escape of water.
 
background
In April 2018, water from a burst pipe caused damage to Mr Fs home. He made a claim 
under his policy which Lloyds accepted. It agreed to cover the cost for him and his family to 
stay in alternative accommodation (AA) until the property could be made habitable again. It 
also agreed to pay a disturbance allowance (DA) of £25 a day to cover  additional  expenses  
which Mr F and his family might  incur while in AA.
Lloyds appointed a company (which Ill call P) to carry out drying  of the property.  It also 
appointed a personal claims  consultant  (PCC)  to oversee Mr Fs claim.
In May 2018, Mr F became unhappy at the time it was taking for P to dry out the property 
and its lack of communication. He complained to Lloyds. It explained that the drying  process 
could sometimes take longer  than anticipated. It offered £25 compensation for Ps poor 
communication which Mr F accepted.  
Meanwhile, Mr F was interested in appointing his own contractor to carry out the repair  
works. He provided Lloyds with a repair quote of £12,910. However, Lloyds advised him that 
this was higher  than the cost of using its own contractor and that the most it could offer as a 
cash settlement was £10,505.
Lloyds also arranged for a specialist to visit the property and provide a quote for replacing 
the carpet.  However,  due to a miscommunication by Lloyds, the specialist provided a quote  
which included the cost of replacing  laminate and lino floorings. Lloyds afterwards explained 
to Mr F that these costs  fell under the buildings cover rather than contents, and had 
therefore already  been accounted  for in the cash settlement offer.
In June 2018, Mr F again complained to Lloyds. He said that it was delaying in making 
payment to him for his AA and this was leaving him in financial difficulty; its settlement offer 
was too low; its PCC was failing to communicate  properly; and that there had been a 
miscommunication with the specialist over the carpet quote.
Following receipt of the complaint, Lloyds  agreed to remove the PCC  from overseeing  the 
claim. It arranged for another contractor to scope the required work. This produced an 
estimate of £11,613. The contractor estimated that, including  drying time, the work should  
take six weeks to complete. Lloyds amended its cash settlement offer accordingly  and 
furthermore said it would  cover AA costs and other  sundry expenses for a six week  period 
(which was until the end of July 2018).
On 22 June 2018, Mr F accepted Lloyds cash settlement offer.  However, he said that his 
preferred contractor couldnt start work immediately and so he expected to remain  in AA for 
nine further weeks  (until the end of August 2018). He asked that Lloyds cover  this cost.
Lloyds agreed  to pay the cash settlement.  However, it didnt agree to pay AA for the 
extended period.
Ref: DRN23557112In the event, an administrative error meant  that the cash settlement wasnt paid to Mr F until 
23 July 2018,  which was one month after he had accepted the offer and was the date that 
his contractor was due to start work.
Lloyds issued a final response on Mr Fs complaint on 30 July 2018.  It noted that the cash 
settlement offer had now been  accepted and that his contractor had now started work. It 
accepted there had been failures in its communication. It also accepted that it could have 
acted quicker in offering to get a third quote and that there  had been  a delay before it issued 
the payment of the cash settlement. It arranged to pay £175 compensation for its poor service.
After issuing its final response letter, Lloyds agreed  to carry on paying the AA and DA costs 
beyond the end of July but said it would review this on a weekly basis as it needed to 
understand from Mr Fs contractor how the works were progressing and why the property 
wasnt habitable.
In the event, Lloyds  carried  on paying AA and DA costs until almost  the end of August 2018 
when the property became habitable  once again  and Mr F and his family were  able to move 
back in.
In January 2019, Mr F contacted  Lloyds to say he still hadnt received a response 
concerning the complaint hed made in June 2018  about the late payment of his AA.
Lloyds acknowledged  that it had overlooked this point in its final response of 30 July 2018. 
It noted that it had now paid all of Mr Fs AA costs. However, it admitted that it should  have 
agreed to pay the AA costs sooner and not delayed  issuing  payment. It paid him £100 for 
any inconvenience suffered and, having noted  that Mr F had found  it necessary to pay the 
AA costs using his credit card, offered to pay interest fees he may have incurred.
Mr F was unhappy at Lloyds response. He referred  his complaint to us. He acknowledged 
that he hadnt incurred any interest  charges on his credit card.  He nonetheless felt the 
compensation hed been  offered  was inadequate for the overall trouble to which  hed been  
put by Lloyds poor handling of the claim.  He also raised a concern that the cash settlement 
hadnt taken account of all the work  necessary in his bathroom.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She was 
satisfied the cash  settlement  had taken account of the work  required in the bathroom. She 
nonetheless thought that Lloyds had made various  errors in its handling of the claim which 
had caused stress and inconvenience to Mr F. She thought it should pay him a further £200 
compensation.
Lloyds didnt accept  the investigators  findings. It pointed out it had already paid Mr F £300  
compensation, as well as offered to pay any interest charges he may have incurred. It 
considered that total compensation of £500  was excessive in this case.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
Ref: DRN23557113my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
The file notes show that the cash settlement took account of the work  required in Mr Fs 
bathroom. This included  not only replacement of the floor but also the removal  and 
reinstatement of the door and sanitary ware. Im satisfied this was fair.
However, I consider  that Lloyds handling of the claim was generally poor. Mr F repeatedly 
drew attention to the fact he was struggling  to pay his hotel bill but Lloyds  didnt offer any 
way to relieve the financial pressure on him and overlooked his complaint when he made it. 
There were two weeks of payments, amounting  to over £1,000, which Lloyds somehow  
missed altogether and which Mr F had to chase up some time later.  As a result of Lloyds 
failure to address his concerns, Mr F continued to face stress over ability to pay for his AA 
throughout the claim. I consider this would  have been very worrying for him.
I further consider  that when there was disagreement  over the cost of the repair  work,  Lloyds  
should have acted quicker in getting  another quote rather  than agreeing to this only after 
Mr F had made a complaint. 
And there were other problems, such as the confusion over the carpet quote and the failure 
to issue the cash  settlement  payment  until a month  after it had been  agreed.
I note that Lloyds failed to immediately appoint a new PCC after the original PCC was 
removed from the claim. I consider that this led to a lack of communication with Mr F and a 
failure to manage  the claim properly, as outlined  above.  
After taking everything into account, I consider  it fair that Lloyds should pay Mr F a further  
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  to pay Mr F a further £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2355711