K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  for a 
mortgage.
background
Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1998, and increased the cover alongside her 
further advances  in 2001 and 2003. Mrs D paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium, 
which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage  payments in case  she was off work  sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.  
Having done that, Ive decided that Mrs Ds PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Each time Mrs D took out or extended the PPI, she signed and submitted an application form 
specifically for the policy. This was separate to her applications for the mortgage or further 
advances  applying  for PPI was not part and parcel of the lending.  She also filled out direct 
debit mandates  to pay for the policy on each occasion, and it was paid separately  to the 
mortgage  it wasnt  a cost that was necessarily included. Ive not seen any evidence which 
shows that the PPI was displayed as compulsory, nor any wider  problems  with Lloyds sales  
process from the time.  And Mrs D appears to have known she had the policy,  as she made a 
claim on it in 1999. Overall, I think that Lloyds made  Mrs D aware she had a choice about  
buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it  though  I can understand if she no longer 
recalls doing so after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs D, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it looks  like 
Mrs D was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions or 
limitations.
Mrs D said she had an unusual amount of sick pay. Our adjudicator  queried  this with her and 
her representative, but theyve not given us any further evidence about  this. In any case, the 
PPI offered  Mrs D quite comprehensive  cover,  and it also covered her in case she lost her 
job, which she doesnt seem to have had any alternative protection  for. Further,  the 
mortgage was a significant,  long-term commitment, and there was no guarantee that Mrs D 
would have the same work benefits  in the years to come. And its worth  bearing in mind  that 
if Mrs D fell behind on her mortgage,  she couldve lost her home.  So it seems the PPI 
couldve been useful  for her in protecting her home and providing  some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN23754612Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mrs D about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Mrs D chose to take out PPI, so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover. 
As I explained above, Mrs D wasnt affected  by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover, 
and it couldve been useful for her in case something went  wrong. And the PPI was paid on 
a rolling monthly  basis, so Mrs D could  cancel it at any time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2375461