K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc, trading as helpucover.co.uk unfairly 
refused to pay her claim under pet policy.
background
Miss W made  a claim for her dog for the vet fees in removing his ear canal due to ongoing 
issues on 28 February 2018. However, Pinnacle  on reading through the entire vet history  for 
her dog saw he had been treated for ear issues during  the first 14 days of the policy starting.  
Therefore, it said it couldnt pay her claim.  
Miss W took out her policy on 13 April 2012 and her dog visited  the vet on 24 April 2012 and 
received treatment for his ears. 
Pinnacle acknowledged it has previously paid a claim in 2017 relating to her dogs  ear 
treatment. However, Miss W says it paid two claims concerning her dogs  ears. Once by a 
claim made on 16 March 2017  and the second by a claim made on 21 August 2017. It 
apologised for this and offered to pay Miss W £300 compensation, which she refused.
Unhappy Miss W brought her complaint to us. The investigator ultimately didnt uphold her 
complaint. Miss W disagreed and so her complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 April and said the following:
When Mrs W took out her policy in 2012,  it said in the policy summary and the policy  
terms that no claims will be paid for illnesses suffered in the first 14 days of the policy  
starting. This in effect means  that should  the pet suffer any illness within  those first 
14 days that condition  is then not covered for the life of the policy. Here, Miss W has 
a lifetime policy covering  her dog. 
This term is not unusual  and is in virtually every pet policy available on the market.  
The reason  for this is that pet policies, in common with other insurance policies have 
a 14-day cooling off period where  the policyholder can cancel  the policy and receive  
a full refund  of the premium paid.  Therefore, any illness suffered during these first 14 
days is considered  in effect a pre-existing condition and therefore excluded.  I dont  
consider this unfair or unusual.  Further, it was also properly highlighted in the policy 
summary as well as the policy document.
Its clear in the vet history  that Miss Ws dog had itchy ears on 24 April 2012, which 
was medicated.  That continued through May when  the dog was seen on 9 May and 
more medication was prescribed.  Then again on 23 May. On 19 July 2012, the left 
ear was noted to be slightly  pink. On 7 August, the left ear was still itchy.  Ear 
problems then resurfaced on 17 January 2014  with more medication. Ears were still 
inflamed on examination on 14 November 2014.  And more ear medication was 
prescribed on 26 November 2015. Further  issues arose in 2016.  
So I do think  the ear problems have been  ongoing  since Miss W took her dog to the 
vet on 24 April 2012. I dont consider  theres  enough evidence  to show  the issues, 
which occurred in 2016 to be at all, separate and distinct  from the previous ear 
issues. I consider Miss Ws dog did indeed present with ear problems in the first 14 
days of the policy starting.  The vet history clearly shows an ongoing sporadic ear 
Ref: DRN27540492problem from the very start. So I dont consider Pinnacle is wrong  to exclude it, as a 
condition starting within  the first 14 days of the policy cover.
Miss W claimed  £958.35 for ear problems on 16 March 2016 and then claimed  
£817.32 on 21 August  2016 for further ear problems. Both of which Pinnacle paid. 
However I think Pinnacle should  have noted this when Miss W first claimed in relation  
to her dogs  ears in March  2016. It correctly said as that was its mistake  it would  not 
ask Miss W to refund the claims it paid in relation  to her dogs ears.
However, by paying both claims in 2016, it significantly mismanaged Miss Ws and 
indeed her vets expectations. Had Miss W and indeed her vet been aware no cover  
was provided for her dogs ears its possible the treatment plan for Miss Ws dog 
might have been different. I consider this possibly therefore potentially  prejudiced  
Miss W given she now has to pay her vet fees in the not insignificant sum of 
£1,777.48, which Miss W told us she borrowed from her neighbour to pay. And 
obviously, Miss W is deeply distressed by this.
Consequently, I dont consider the compensation Pinnacle offered to Miss W of £300  
to be sufficient. I think it should increase that by another £200 making the total 
compensation payable to be £500.
Pinnacle had nothing further  to add to my provisional decision. Miss W disagreed  with my 
provisional decision and made several  points, which Ive summarised as follows:  
She doesnt believe her dog attended the vet for his ears in January 2014  or in November 
2014. Initially when  her dog first attended  the vet in April 2012, the suspected diagnosis was 
either an allergy or ear mites. Miss W said she never claimed anything for any allergy  as he 
was tested for it or diagnosed  with it until July 2017.  Her dog was then prescribed steroids,  
which worked well. Miss W believes her dog had two distinct  different conditions affecting  his 
ears. 
Miss W also wanted to know if we had consulted any independent clinical advice.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an evidence-based service. We examine and make  a decision on the basis of the 
evidence thats  provided to us by both parties. We do not routinely consult independent 
clinicians to help us make  our decisions as our decisions  are solely based on what  is fair and 
reasonable having regard  to the evidence and arguments of both parties. 
The entry in the vet history for 17 January 2014 clearly talks of the diagnosis being redish 
ears + anal gland  problem.  The entry for 14 November 2014  clearly says ears  mildly 
inflamed. So clearly, Miss Ws dogs ears were discussed on these dates by her vet given  
the entries made.
It actually doesnt  matter whether or not Miss Ws dog had two different issues  going on with 
his ears,  the issue  is that during the first 14 days of this policy commencing, Miss Ws dog 
had an issue with his ears,  which  was treated by her vet. Therefore, the exclusion is for 
Ref: DRN27540493anything to do with her dogs ears, not just one specific issue. This is commonly done by 
virtually all pet insurance providers in these circumstances  so I dont find it unusual.  
Therefore, I dont consider that Pinnacle did anything wrong in deciding this. However, I do 
think it should have  done this the first time Miss W made any claim for her dogs ears. I 
remain of the view that in paying two claims relating to her dogs ears, it wrongly  
mismanaged Miss Ws expectations and indeed her vet on which claims would be covered 
going forward. 
I also remain of the view that the £300 compensation Pinnacle offered to pay Miss W for this 
is too low. Therefore, I consider it should  pay her a total of £500 compensation.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my provisional  decision  that I uphold  this complaint in part.
I now require Pinnacle Insurance Plc, trading as helpucover.co.uk to pay Miss W a total of 
£500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754049