K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Ms H have  complained about  issues that arose when refurbishment works were 
undertaken to the commercial property held in their SIPPs  (self invested personal pensions) 
with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited.
background
Ive considered this complaint before. I issued a provisional decision on 23 July 2021.   Ive 
recapped what I said about what had happened, the issues and my provisional findings. 
Mr Ws and Ms Hs SIPPs hold their respective  shares (45% for Mr W and 55% for Ms H) in 
a commercial property (which is subject to a mortgage) from which  their business  used to 
operate. When the business came to an end the property was let to a third party company on 
a full repairing  lease.  The tenant was responsible for the rent, business rates, utilities and 
repairs. The lease expired in December 2016.  The tenant vacated  the property in January 
2017 without undertaking dilapidations work  as required by the lease. Dilapidations  of 
£39,150 were later agreed. Suffolk  Life received that payment on 5 April 2017.
Mr W and Ms H wanted to carry out repairs and refurbishments as quickly as possible so the 
property could be re let. While the property was empty,  as well as continuing to have  to meet  
the mortgage payments, Mr W and Ms H had to pay business rates, insurance premiums 
and utility bills. Those  outgoings, plus the contractors fees for carrying out the works to the 
property and any legal or other fees, are charged  proportionately to the SIPPs  via a property 
account. Mr W and Ms H dont have day to day access to that account. They receive  annual  
statements and they can make telephone or email  enquiries. Suffolk Life also keeps Mr W 
and Ms H informed as to whether there are sufficient funds to meet  payments due. 
While the property was empty,  repairs and refurbishments were  undertaken. Problems  arose 
about the contracting process. Mr W and Ms H say they werent properly informed as to 
Suffolk Lifes requirements. There was also an overpayment of the mortgage, an error about 
a VAT reclaim  (which resulted in the balance held in the property account being overstated) 
and a data protection breach. 
Suffolk Life issued a final response on 30 August  2017, having treated what  Ms H said 
during a telephone call on 10 August 2017 as a complaint. Mr W and Ms H wrote on 24 
September 2017 setting out their complaints  in detail. There  was then further 
correspondence. 
Suffolk Life accepted  that, in some respects, its service had fallen below the level Mr W and 
Ms H were  entitled to expect. Suffolk  Life offered to waive its fees (estimated  to be at least 
£500) for dealing  with the building works  and the change of tenant. And it offered £100 each 
to Mr W and Ms H for the data breach. Mr W and Ms H didnt think  that was adequate and 
referred their complaint  to us on 27 February  2018.
One of our adjudicators looked  into what had happened.  He upheld  the complaint. He said 
thered been a lack of timely and accurate information from Suffolk Life as to its 
requirements. That, and cost considerations, had led to Mr W and Ms H not following the 
process correctly which had caused late payments to and disputes with contractors. Thered 
also been a serious  accounting error  which had led Mr W and Ms H to believe there was 
more money available than was actually  the case. That had caused overspending and 
additional contributions were  then required. And there was a serious data breach which  had 
Ref: DRN28332202caused severe embarrassment. It was also possible that the re letting of the property and the 
resumption of rental  income had been delayed. 
The adjudicator didnt think Suffolk  Lifes offers reflected  the seriousness of the failings or 
the degree of distress  caused, particularly in respect of the data breach. He suggested an 
award of £2,000 (to include the £500 fees forgone and the £200 already offered). 
Suffolk Life didnt accept that. It maintained  the compensation it had offered was fair and 
reasonable. It said it had made two errors: first, in relation to a tax claim which  meant funds 
had to be returned to HMRC;  secondly  there was a minor data breach  a contractor was 
copied into a cash flow analysis email outlining  the shortfall in funds.  Suffolk Life said all the 
other issues and difficulties arose because Mr W and Ms H engaged contractors externally, 
without funding in place and not taking into account Suffolk Lifes need to comply with 
regulations.  
Mr W and Ms H didnt  accept the adjudicators view either. As the adjudicator  didnt think  
there was any prospect  of the matter  being  settled, he said hed be referring  the matter  to an 
ombudsman. 
More recently weve asked Suffolk Life for some  further information, including  transaction  
histories for the SIPPs,  copies of correspondence  exchanged and call recordings. We also 
asked Mr W and Ms H, amongst other things, to say what theyd have  done  differently but for 
the accounting error and if theyd have been  aware  that the account balance was lower. Ive 
included the further points  they made below where Ive set out the four areas  of complaint 
and, in summary, what the parties  say about what happened. Ive added  a section about 
how Mr W and Ms H say theyve been impacted overall. 
contracting issues
Mr W and Ms H say:
Suffolk Life didnt advise them as to its requirements about  instructing contractors to 
undertake refurbishment work. That caused disputes with the contractors and led to 
delays when, and as Suffolk  Life knew,  time was of the essence  to refurbish and re 
let the property. 
Ms H advised Suffolk Life in a telephone call on 28 April 2017 that she and Mr W 
would be project managing the work themselves. Ms H asked  about  Suffolk  Lifes  
procedural requirements. She was told all Suffolk Life needed  were  two quotes, a 
copy of the contractors Professional Indemnity Insurance  (PII) certificate and 
Construction Industry Scheme (CIS)  number if applicable. She wasnt told that 
independent contractors had to sign a contract  with Suffolk  Life prior to the 
commencement of works.  Suffolk  Life didnt provide details of the overall contracting  
process or a copy of its developing property fact sheet. Suffolk Life had pointed  to the 
amended terms and conditions sent to Mr W and Ms H on 10 February 2017. But 
Suffolk Life failed to advise as to its requirements  when details were specifically 
requested on 28 April 2017. 
In emails sent on 14 May 2017, 26 May 2017 and 31 May 2017,  Ms H provided 
breakdowns of the repair  costs plus supporting PII and CIS documentation and 
requested confirmation that Suffolk  Life was satisfied with the documentation  so that 
work could commence on the dates given. Suffolk Life didnt reply until 6 June 2017. 
Suffolk Life said it couldnt contract  with any of the contractors  as it held insufficient 
funds. By then re roofing had already started (on 17 May 2017) as had electrical 
Ref: DRN28332203works (on 6 June 2017). 
After telephone  discussions it was agreed  that the work could proceed and on the 
basis that funds would  be credited. And most of the contractors  agreed,  albeit 
somewhat reluctantly, to sign retrospective  contracts. But the electrician wasnt 
willing to do that. Ms H hadnt told him hed need to sign a contract as Suffolk Life 
hadnt told her that. He took legal advice  and sought payment direct from Ms H. He 
instructed solicitors  who wrote to Ms H on 6 November 2017 seeking  recovery of a 
debt of £2,284.91  for work undertaken.  The matter was ultimately settled. But Ms H 
was concerned  as to the impact on her reputation, both with local tradesmen (and not 
just the electrician)  and local solicitors. 
Suffolk Life says:
Contracts were required to protect the SIPPs by ensuring that fixed  costings were 
agreed prior to works commencing and to make the contractors responsible for the 
quality of the works, materials  used and dealing with any health and safety or 
construction notifications to ensure  the project  was compliant. 
Mr W and Ms H shouldve been  aware  of the requirements to have contracts in place. 
The SIPP terms and conditions and the property guide are supplied  when the SIPP  is 
established or a property acquired  into the SIPP. Mr W and Ms H signed the SIPP 
application form to confirm theyd been  provided with copy documents and had read 
and understood  them.  
It is also Suffolk Lifes responsibility to keep  Mr W and Ms H informed of any 
changes. Suffolk Life sent a copy of its amended terms and conditions  on 10 
February 2017 which set out more clearly the parties responsibilities  in property 
investments. The section on developing property included the requirement, where 
building works  are undertaken, for contracts to be entered  into. And the need  for 
sufficient funding  to be in place. Here the cost of the works exceeded the 
dilapidations sum received  from the previous tenant. Suffolk Life couldnt  contract  for 
the work  until funding  was in place.  
Suffolk Life did outline the need for multiple quotes, confirmation of PII and CIS 
requirements during  the telephone call on 28 April 2017.  Contractual requirements 
werent mentioned.  And, although Ms H was told that full details  of Suffolk Lifes 
requirements would be sent,  the developing property factsheet wasnt forwarded. But 
Suffolk Lifes email of 6 June 2017  (which included the VAT credit which was later 
reclaimed) confirmed  the funding  position of SIPP and that Suffolk  Life was unable  to 
contract for any works  until sufficient funds were  available.  
Suffolk Life apologised that it hadnt responded to Ms Hs emails  sent in May 2017 
until 6 June 2017. But a slow response  shouldnt  have  been taken as authority to 
proceed. Ms Hs emails sought authority to proceed  which  demonstrated that she 
and Mr W understood that Suffolk  Lifes approval,  prior to any works commencing,  
was required.  The first opportunity Suffolk  Life had to review Mr Ws and Ms Hs 
emails was 1 June 2017. It wasnt possible  to get contracts drawn  up, agreed and 
signed before works commenced. 
Suffolk  Life had agreed to complete the administration in respect of the building  
works without passing a charge (usually  in the region of £500 but could be more)  on 
to Mr W and Ms H.
overpayment of mortgage
Mr W and Ms H say:
Ref: DRN28332204The mortgage was overpaid in June  2017. Suffolk Life told them  there were 
insufficient funds  to meet the August 2017 payment and demanded further monies. 
Mr W and Ms H checked the property account, identified the error and told Suffolk 
Life. It notified the bank that the August payment had already been made and a 
further payment  was suspended. Suffolk Life sought to minimise the error by saying it 
was due to computer changeover problems and no apology was given.  And the error 
was only rectified as a result of Mr W and Ms Hs intervention.
A statement of the property account  on 10 August 2017 (with entries up to 8 August 
2017) showed that the overpayment  error  hadnt  been rectified even though  Suffolk 
Life had been  put on notice of the issue by the bank  two months  previously.
Suffolk Life says:
There was an error  which meant  two payments  were made  at the beginning of June 
2017. Suffolk Life was contacted by the bank about the overpayment  and agreement 
reached to skip the loan payment for July 2017.  Unfortunately, and despite a 
(internal) request  to amend  the payment, the July 2017 payment was still made. 
Suffolk Life cant say why that was. But the August 2017 payment was then missed  
to bring the account up to date. 
It isnt the case that the loan overpayment and VAT reclaim  error were both on 2 
June 2017 and both due to computer problems. VAT reclaims and loan repayments 
are processed by different teams and were both actioned manually. The mistakes 
were down  to (separate)  human errors. 
accounting error (resulting in VAT being  incorrectly  reclaimed from HMRC)
Mr W and Ms H say:
On 28 April 2017 Suffolk Life told Ms H that £37,216.33 was available  for 
refurbishment of the property.  Mr W and Ms H calculated  they could afford to have all 
the repairs done and the roof replaced. Theyd  be able to meet four months  loan 
repayments, assuming the property was re let in September 2017. After paying  the 
professional fees, which only fell due when a tenant was found, they calculated 
theyd have a credit balance of about  £4,300.
On 6 June 2017 Suffolk Life advised  that the funds available for refurbishment were 
£40,673.28. The figure was inflated  as it included VAT which had been reclaimed but 
which had to be paid back to HMRC. Mr W and Ms H relied on the higher, incorrect,  
figure in calculating  funds available for repairs and other  outgoings. It appeared 
theyd have a credit balance of about  £11,100.
Suffolk  Life didnt  notify them thered been an error. Its unclear when the error  was 
discovered, although the overclaim was repaid  to HMRC on 2 August 2017. Suffolk 
Life sent an email  on 7 August 2017  saying  there were insufficient  funds  in the 
property account  to discharge  a contractors invoice. Mr W and Ms H didnt 
understand why and asked  for a print out of the property account which they received 
on 10 August  2017. They queried the payments from and to HMRC. Suffolk Life 
advised by telephone on 12 August 2017 that it was a VAT accounting error. Suffolk  
Life also said, if monies werent credited, the property would have  to be sold.  
From various telephone calls during the week 14 to 18 August 2017 Mr W and Ms H 
found out that Suffolk Life had taken  legal advice.  It seems that advice  initially given 
by solicitors was then revised  and resulted in the VAT being repaid. 
The figures are confusing. The VAT credit was £9,101.14. But sum repaid was 
Ref: DRN28332205£8,066.36. And an email  from Suffolk  Life sent on 23 August 2017 refers to 
£7,833.33 being reclaimed. The actual sum was unclear.
Suffolk Life says:
An accounting error was made  on the property account in respect  of VAT reclaimed 
in error. Suffolk Life accepts  it shouldve notified  Mr W and Ms H of the error  as soon 
as it was discovered.
It didnt  agree that incorrect information  as to the funds available  influenced Mr Ws 
and Ms Hs decisions as to the level of works.  The VAT reclaim wasnt  received until 
2 June 2017 and the incorrect  (higher)  figure for funds available  wasnt confirmed 
until 6 June 2017. In an email of 14 May 2017  Mr W and Ms H had confirmed their 
intention to replace all three  roofs  as the difference between the costs of replacing 
and repairing  was so little. 
Quotes  for electrical work, decorating  and re carpeting were received prior to 31 May 
2017 and before  the VAT reclaim was incorrectly allocated.  Quotes  totalled  about 
£45,000 and exceeded,  not just the dilapidation  costs,  but also the funds  available in 
the account. 
The majority of the contractors had been appointed prior to the misallocation  of 
funds. The roofing  work was due to be completed by 14 June 2017. If funds hadnt 
been incorrectly allocated Suffolk Lifes email of 6 June  2017  wouldve reflected a 
much higher contribution required to meet the costs of repairs  that Mr W and Ms H 
already authorised. 
That email confirmed that where  the property was vacant and building works were 
being undertaken, Suffolk Life required sufficient funds  to meet  six months loan 
repayments. At Mr Ws and Ms Hs request that was reduced to three months with 
the proviso that if, after three months, a tenant  wasnt in place,  additional funds would 
be required to meet ongoing liabilities. Contributions  were made in July 2017  but no 
further funds  were  received,  despite  Mr W and Ms H being  aware  there were minimal 
surplus funds  available to meet building works costs.
The invoices  received  reflected an increase in costs which further  impacted  on the 
lack of available funds.  
When a lack of funds  was identified Suffolk Life didnt  look into that further before 
contacting Mr W and Ms H. The developing property team were  unaware that the 
VAT reclaim had been incorrectly processed and then reversed  that had been 
actioned by the accounts team. Suffolk Life accepted that thered been a lack of 
communication between the two teams. Feedback had been given.
data breach
Mr W and Ms H say:
An email sent to Ms H on 23 August 2017,  which contained highly confidential  and 
sensitive financial  information,  was copied to a contractor. He acknowledged the 
email early on 24 August 2017 and queried why it had been  sent to him. Ms H 
emailed Suffolk Life that day alerting it to the data breach  and asking how it had 
arisen. Suffolk Life responded an hour or so later and apologised for sending the 
email to the contractor. Suffolk Life also telephoned  Mr W to apologise. During  the 
call Mr W was also told there was an overspend and, unless rectified,  the property 
would be sold.
The contractor  has been asked to delete the email but theres  no guarantee hes 
done so. In any event  he cant unknow the information. Mr W and Ms H dont know  
how or if hes used  the information and have no control over how he may use it in the 
Ref: DRN28332206future, intentionally  or otherwise. Theres been a total loss of control  of the data. 
Theres a real risk of reputational damage as all the tradesmen are local and the 
contractor knows  all of them, including those who were unpaid at the time of the 
breach. The future impact of the breach  isnt known but could affect  their ability  to let 
the property  at a commercial  rent. The breach is particularly damaging  for Ms H. 
Shes done  voluntary  work  alongside the contractor for many years for the same  
organisation and has many  mutual  acquaintances 
Mr W and Ms H sought details of the policies Suffolk Life have in place about data 
protection, including procedures to notify  breaches, containment  and evaluation of 
loss caused. 
Suffolk Life has apologised  for the data breach. It says:
It was a genuine error. The individual concerned  was fully aware of his error.  
Feedback has been given. Companywide  communications have been issued to raise 
awareness. All staff are completing  data protection training. The responsibility  to 
safeguard data is taken  very seriously.  Robust data protection  frameworks  are in 
place but unfortunately breaches can occur  when manual processes are undertaken. 
Immediate steps were taken to rectify  the situation in line with standards set by the 
ICO (Information Commissioners Office) with whom concerns  can be raised.  
An apology has been given and compensation of £100 each was sent to Mr W and 
Ms H for the inconvenience and embarrassment Suffolk Life accepts was caused. It 
doesnt know why the cheque for Ms H wasnt enclosed with the relevant letter as 
both cheques were  requested and issued at same time.  But, as the cheque wasnt  
cashed, it had been cancelled and a replacement  issued and posted.  
The disclosure didnt  cause a dispute with the contractor. He was paid in full following 
Mr Ws and Ms Hs email  of 10 July 2017 (despite some work remaining 
outstanding). There was no reason for him not to complete the work as hed already 
been paid in full and so he wouldnt be concerned he might  not get paid.  
 Suffolk Life isnt required to provide information  about its data protection processes 
and procedures or minutes  of internal meetings. 
how Mr W and Ms H say theyve been impacted  overall
During the course of an expensive refurbishment  process,  Suffolk Life made  a 
catalogue of admitted  errors (including  communication failures; incorrect  accounting; 
and a data protection breach) which affected  their financial  decision making.  When  
the accounting error was identified they had to divert funds into the SIPPs  which 
caused them  personal financial hardship.  
The re roofing  work started  on 18 May 2017 but was suspended on 24 May 2017 due 
to planning requirements.  Work  restarted on 8 June 2017 and was completed  on 27 
June 2017. On 6 June  2017, when work was suspended, Suffolk  Life gave Ms H an 
inflated figure for funds held in the property account. Mr W and Ms H relied on that 
and thought they had sufficient funds to replace all three roof areas.
At the time they werent committed to re roofing all three areas.  If theyd known they 
had less money theyd  have re roofed one area only. The invoice for all three roofs  
was £22,248 including  VAT.  The estimate to re roof only one area was £10,560  
including VAT,  a difference of £11,688.  By the time they were  told of the error,  the 
work had been completed. 
If theyd have been given correct information  about the contracting process, theyd 
have appointed professional contractors whod tendered initially and confirmed the 
works wouldve  taken  three months,  so starting  in April 2017 and finishing at the end 
Ref: DRN28332207of June 2017. Theyd then have been able to complete a lease with either of two 
tenants with whom terms had been agreed. The delay meant they lost those tenants 
and the property remained unlet until April 2018.  
That was a loss of rental income  of £20,625.  And they had to meet the rates  which 
were £8,104. They had to fund the shortfall by making unplanned contributions.  Ms H 
paid in over £28,750  over this period (£18,665  more than she anticipated  when 
planning the refurbishment in March/April 2017). The increased  contributions  
exceeded tax relievable amounts. Mr W didnt suffer any tax penalties but he had to 
fund the shortfall  with a similar level of contributions,  either borrowed incurring 
interest or losing  interest.  
Compensation needs to reflect the damage caused. Theyve spent much time 
dealing with the complaint  - about  100 hours  for Ms H and about 50 hours for Mr W. 
They are both working and with family  commitments their time is limited. The cost of 
their time charged professionally  is between £150 and £275 an hour.  They suggest 
£20,000 as a starting point for compensation.  
The data protection breach continues to be felt particularly  by Ms H. The information  
disclosed has been discussed locally much to her embarrassment. Many of the 
contractors are known to her personally and she cant use them again, especially as 
she was threatened  with court  proceedings by one of them.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im conscious that the parties  have been  waiting some time. The complaint isnt 
straightforward and involves a number of issues. A lot of information has been provided. I 
think it would  be helpful to set out my thoughts so far and give both parties a further chance 
to comment. My views  might change, depending on further comments made. 
Before I deal with the four complaint areas as set out above, Ive seen that Mr W and Ms H 
were unhappy  that Suffolk Life issued a final response in advance  of their letter  of 24 
September 2017 setting out their complaints  in detail.  And that Mr W and Ms H sought,  
unsuccessfully, to persuade Suffolk Life that the six month period for referral of their 
complaint to this service  hadnt begun to run. 
I can understand Mr Ws and Ms Hs position.  But, even if there is ongoing correspondence, 
that wont mean that an earlier  issued final response  wont  stand, provided its clear that the 
six month deadline originally given still applies.  Its largely a matter for the business 
concerned when it considers it appropriate  to issue a final response. 
I also note there was some, albeit fairly minor, confusion on Suffolk Lifes  part about the six 
month period.  Suffolk Life said, in its letter dated  25 October 2017, that the six months  had 
started to run from Suffolk Lifes letter of 17 August 2017. That was wrong and the 17 August 
2017 letter  didnt contain referral rights. But Suffolk Life corrected that and clarified, in its 
letter dated  8 December 2017,  that the six months  ran from 30 August 2017.  The complaint 
was referred to us at the end of February 2018 and within that six month period. Any 
confusion didnt cause  any detriment to Mr W and Ms H and their complaint was referred  to 
us in time.  
Ive considered Mr Ws and Ms Hs complaints under the same headings as previously.
Ref: DRN28332208contracting issues
Suffolk Life wasnt required to give advice. But Mr W and Ms H werent seeking advice as 
such, more information as to Suffolk Lifes requirements when  carrying out works to the 
property held in their SIPPs.  
Ive looked first at the documents Mr W and Ms H got when they set up their SIPPs.  The 
SIPPs were established  because they were  buying  the commercial  property  from which their 
business operated  and which would  be leased back to their business. So, from the outset, 
the provisions about investing in property were  relevant. 
The SIPP terms and conditions contain  a lengthy  section about investments  in property, 
including specific provisions about developing property. They  say, amongst other things,  that 
building works  may only be undertaken with Suffolk Lifes prior written agreement. And that, 
before agreeing, Suffolk  Life will require quotes from at least two independent contractors. 
Ring fenced funding  (including any lending) must  also be in place before contracts  are 
signed by Suffolk  Life. Any contractor must also be a CIS member,  work to a fixed price and 
agree to use Suffolk Lifes standard documentation.
I think Mr W and Ms H would also have received  Suffolk Lifes property guide which included 
more details about property renovations, although the provisions  about  developing the 
property may not have  been at the forefront of Mr Ws and Ms Hs minds  when  they first set 
up the SIPPs. It was only some years later, when the property had been  let to a third party 
whose tenancy  had terminated,  that renovating the property was on the agenda.
But Mr W and Ms H were  sent (in February  2017) an updated property guide. It included a 
post purchase section.  It deals (see section 16) with developments and renovations. It 
refers, amongst other things, to the need  for Suffolk Life to agree any works. The 
requirements include obtaining separate quotations  from at least  two different contractors;  
the work  being  completed in most cases by a single independent contractor who will be 
instructed by Suffolk Life (after a construction phase plan has been  provided); a contract 
between Suffolk Life and the contractor (using Suffolk Lifes  precedent documentation) with 
the contractor being  a CIS member. And funding for the works and all associated costs,  
including VAT, must be held in the SIPP before any contracts can be signed and works 
formally instigated. 
I can see why Suffolk  Life might argue that Mr W and Ms H ought to have been aware of its 
requirements  it seems they received  up to date information at a time when it was relevant, 
given their plans  to refurbish the property. 
But theres no dispute that Ms H did specifically ask Suffolk Life, during a telephone call on 
28 April 2017, what its requirements  were. I agree with Mr W and Ms H that the telephone 
conversation was key and a trigger for Suffolk Life to make sure that its requirements were  
made clear to Mr W and Ms H who, and as Suffolk Life knew, were keen to get on with the 
works so that the property could be re let and generate  an income. As a matter of good 
customer service,  and regardless of what information Mr W and Ms H may have been given 
when they set up their SIPPs or more recently,  Suffolk Life should have made sure that full 
details of Suffolk Lifes requirements  and the process that would apply were given.  
Suffolk Life accepts that it missed  opportunities to remind Mr W and Ms H of its process and 
requirements. During the call on 28 April 2017  the need for contracts wasnt mentioned  and 
Suffolk Life failed to supply after the call, and as promised during the call, full details, 
Ref: DRN28332209including a copy of its developing  property factsheet.  It seems that all Ms H was told was 
that Suffolk  Life needed two quotes  and CIS and PII certificates. 
Suffolk Life has explained why contracts  are required  to protect  the SIPP. I dont think  
theres any argument about  that. The issue is Suffolk Lifes failure  to point that out during the 
telephone call on 28 April 2017. Or follow that call up with full information, including the 
developing property  factsheet. 
I think there was another issue too. It was made  clear that Suffolk Life did need to approve 
the work  (and it seems from her emails  sent in May 2017 that Ms H understood that).  But 
Suffolk Life accepts that it was slow to reply to those emails.  I agree with Suffolk Life that, 
strictly speaking,  that shouldnt have been  taken as approval. But Suffolk  Life did know that 
Mr W and Ms H wanted to commence the works  as quickly as possible so that the property  
could be re let. I dont  know  why Suffolk  Life was unable to reply until 6 June 2017. I think, 
especially as Suffolk  Life knew the situation was urgent, an earlier reply shouldve been  sent 
or a telephone call made. 
Although I can see why Suffolk  Life says Mr W and Ms H shouldnt  have gone ahead without 
formal approval, I can understand why Mr W and Ms H may have  viewed things differently. 
They were  unaware  of the need  for contracts  to be in place  and I think  it was understandable 
if they thought,  given  that theyd complied  with Suffolk Lifes  requirements  as to quotations 
and PII and CIS, that approval would be more or less a formality. I dont doubt, if Ms H had 
been told that Suffolk Life needed to enter into contracts with each of the contractors, that 
shed have accepted that and the work would only have gone  ahead if those contracts had 
been in place. But, as things stood,  I can see why Mr W and Ms H perhaps thought  there 
wasnt a problem in going ahead. 
Suffolk Life has also pointed to the fact that ring fenced funding  shouldve been  in place to 
cover all the project costs.  And it says that funding issues were a root cause of the 
difficulties.  But I think, to some extent,  thats  linked to the contracts issue.  Ordinarily Suffolk 
Life wouldnt  have signed a contract(s) for the work  without  full funding being  in place. 
Because Ms H wasnt told about  the need  for contracts,  the contractors had already started 
work and so the funding situation wasnt straightforward and involved  Mr W and Ms H having  
to make further contributions. 
That said,  I think Mr W and Ms H shouldve kept a close  eye on the costs  and any extra work 
agreed. They knew that the costs exceeded the dilapidations sum paid by the previous 
tenant. There was always likely to be a shortfall which  theyd have to meet by making further 
contributions. I dont see that they can say those  extra and to some extent unplanned  
contributions amounted  to a financial loss. They represented the costs  of the works 
undertaken and so were payable in any event.  I presume  Mr W and Ms H got value for the 
work that was undertaken.   
Mr W and Mr H have  suggested that, had they known about the contracting  requirements, 
theyd have appointed professional contractors. And that would have meant  the work 
wouldve finished at the end of June 2017 and theyd  have  been  able to have new tenants  in 
place from then. But Mr W and Ms H have also said they decided to project  manage  the 
work themselves as there  was a very substantial  costs saving in using independent 
contractors. Given the costs saving Im not convinced theyd have done things differently and 
used a single contractor.
Ref: DRN283322010And, even  if they had used a single contractor,  I dont see theres  any guarantee that the 
works wouldve been completed  any quicker. It isnt uncommon (and some  might say usual) 
for building  works to overrun, even with a professional project manager in place. And, 
although I note what Mr W and Ms H say about  losing  two prospective tenants, I think  its 
very difficult to establish causation and be fairly  sure that, if things had been done  differently, 
the works  wouldve been finished earlier or, even if that was the case, that either of the two 
proposed tenancies would definitely have gone  ahead. So I cant  say that Mr W and Ms H 
have suffered financial loss in terms of lost rent and having to meet  the rates  themselves 
until the property  was re let which wasnt until 2018.
It seems  that Suffolk Lifes preference would have been for a single, main contractor to have 
been used too  the property guide refers to the work generally being undertaken by a single 
independent contractor, as does the developing property factsheet.  That means that, 
generally, Suffolk Life would enter into a contract, as landlord, with a single contractor. 
Dealing with multiple  contractors made things more complicated for Suffolk Life. I think that 
couldve been reflected in increased property management fees which,  as the factsheet sets 
out, are on a time cost basis. But Suffolk Life has waived its fees anyway.
In the main,  the contracting  issues were resolved by retrospective contracts being signed. 
But the electrician  wasnt happy to sign a contract after the event. I can to some extent 
understand why he took that stance.  I think, in the end, Suffolk Life did pay him and the 
issue was resolved. But serious problems did arise  Ms H received a demand for payment 
from solicitors  instructed by the electrician. I think that would have been very upsetting and 
worrying for her as well as having possible  personal  and professional ramifications for her. 
overpayment of mortgage
It seems  that there were several issues here: first, an overpayment  was made; secondly, the 
initial attempt to put that right by missing a payment  didnt work and so the overpayment 
wasnt corrected until the following  month.  And Mr W and Ms H werent told about  the error 
when it first happened. Theres  also some  suggestion they were told it was due to computer  
problems when that wasnt the case.  
Ideally, I think Suffolk  Life should be able to explain exactly what  went  wrong and why steps 
taken initially to correct  the error werent successful.  But I dont see much point in pressing 
for explanations which  it seems Suffolk Life cant now provide  and when the overpayment 
was, in the end, corrected. 
Suffolk Life has also accepted that it should have contacted Mr W and Ms H about  the error 
as soon as it came  to light. Instead, because things hadnt been sorted out by August 2017, 
it seems they were asked  for funds to meet  the mortgage payment and which werent  in fact 
required given the uncorrected overpayment.   Mr W and Ms H also had to work  out for 
themselves what had happened by checking  the property account. 
While theres no financial  loss, Mr W and Ms H have suffered inconvenience. I can in 
particular understand their annoyance  that the error wasnt  brought  to their attention  when it 
happened. And why that has meant a further  loss of confidence in Suffolk  Life.   
accounting error (resulting in VAT being  incorrectly  reclaimed from HMRC)
Suffolk Life gave Mr W and Ms H an incorrect and inflated figure for the funds held in the 
property account.  In recognition of its admitted error Suffolk Life has agreed  to waive its 
Ref: DRN283322011usual time costed fee for dealing  with the transaction. I think thats probably fair enough, at 
least in terms of compensating Mr W and Ms H for any inconvenience theyve suffered as a 
result of this aspect of the matter. 
Mr W and Ms H have  said they cant see any fees being applied and then refunded.  But I 
think the explanation might be, as Suffolk  Life agreed to waive  its fees, that it simply hasnt  
applied those fees to the SIPP  accounts and so theres no debit and corresponding credit 
entries. Id ask Suffolk Life, in response  to this provisional decision,  to confirm the position. 
I further note whats  been  said about the VAT reclaim figures being confusing. Again Id ask 
Suffolk Life to clarify the position. Im referring  here to what Mr W and Ms H say about the 
VAT credit being £9,101.14, the sum repaid £8,066.36 and a figure of £7,833.33  having also 
been mentioned.    
Mr W and Ms H have  mentioned further fees of £2,722 which  they say Suffolk  Life said they 
needed to pay. But I cant immediately see what any other fees might have been charged  
and which  are relevant  to this complaint. If Mr W and Ms H have  queries  about any other 
fees (including agents charges deducted) that Suffolk Life has charged  they should  query  
those items  with Suffolk Life direct. 
Suffolk Life accepts that Mr W and Ms H werent  told when the VAT reclaim error was 
deducted. Or how it had arisen  and that thered been legal involvement. As Ive said above 
and in connection with the overpayment, Suffolk  Life should have been transparent and 
informed Mr W and Ms H as soon as Suffolk Life knew there was a problem.  
I note that two different teams were involved  one dealing  with the VAT reclaim and the 
other the building  works. But, and as Suffolk  Life accepts, communication  could have been 
better. It seems that Mr W and Ms H had to work  out for themselves what  had happened by 
looking at the entries  on the property account. I think the team dealing with the building  
works and whether there  was sufficient funding in place could and should have looked into 
things more before contacting Mr W and Ms H and simply saying they needed to make 
further contributions. Again I think Suffolk  Lifes failure to deal with things properly caused  
inconvenience to Mr W and Ms H. 
Mr W and Ms H also say that its caused them financial  loss in that theyve spent more 
money than they wouldve done  if they hadnt  been given an inflated  figure.  I understand 
thats on the roof  they went ahead and replaced  all three areas  of the roof instead of just 
repairing one area with the difference  in price being some  £11,688.  Work had started on 28 
May 2017. That was before Ms H was given an inflated figure for the property account. Ms H 
says she and Mr W werent  committed to having the more extensive work done.  But Id have  
thought the scope of the work and the cost wouldve been agreed before work commenced.  
And the extra contributions Mr W and Ms H had to make to cover  the project  costs  werent  
limited to the £11,688 differential.  
And, that aside, I note Ms Hs email to Suffolk  Life on 4 July 2017 which read as follows:  
Re-roofing  There are 3 roofs  on the property & extension. [Company name] tendered to 
repair the high roof only. The cost of the scaffolding and repairs (highlighted yellow in the 
tender) is £13,351  + vat. We were  however  advised that it was highly likely that the roof 
needed replacing in its entire and were given  verbal quotation of £40  60,000 for re-roofing. 
[Name of contractor] whom has provided  alternative quotes has advised that the high roof 
must be replaced and cannot be repaired. The cost of this including  scaffolding is £8,800 
Ref: DRN283322012+vat  Estimate  1. He has advised  that the long roof plus the lean to needs replacing as well. 
He has quoted for repairing £3,400 +vat  Estimate 2 and replacing  these 2 roofs at £5,860 
+ vat estimate 3 £790 + vat estimate  4. Given that we have had extensive problems with 
water ingress from all 3 roofs into the property  and the small differential between repairing  
and replacing  we have decided to replace  all 3 roofs at a total cost of £15,450  + vat. We feel 
that this will be the best long term solution for the secure future  of the property.
From that it seems  the decision to undertake the more extensive work was driven  by the 
advice that all three roof areas needed  to be replaced. Given that extensive problems had 
been experienced with all three roof areas and there  was only a small differential between 
the costs of repairing and replacing,  Mr W and Ms H had concluded that replacing all three 
roofs would be the best long term solution.  I think theyd have reached the same decision in 
any event. And I dont see theyve lost out. Theyve spent more than they might have done.  
But theyve presumably got value for the extra work  that was carried  out and which will mean 
that future  repairs wont be required.  
data breach 
I accept this was a genuine, one off, error on the part of one individual.  Copying someone in 
on an email or replying to the wrong email chain is something that can be easily done. I dont 
think it indicates systemic failings on the part of Suffolk Life or shows that it doesnt take its 
responsibilities to protect personal data seriously.  
But I do think that, to some extent, Suffolk  Life has tried to downplay  the seriousness  of the 
breach. I dont agree the breach can properly be described as minor.  The information  that 
was, albeit inadvertently, disclosed was sensitive  and, in my view,  potentially damaging. 
The email  was lengthy and detailed. It set out the available funds and the amounts due to 
the various contractors  and others, including the loan payments. It went  on to say that further 
funding would be required  the following month  to ensure the loan payment  could  be made 
and that the surveyor and solicitors whod acted could be paid. And a further three months  
float would  be needed shortly. The sums involved  were large.  A very substantial funding 
shortfall (£20,505.32)  was mentioned.  Extra  funds (£16,900 plus tax reclaimed)  had been 
paid in by Mr W and Ms H but that had only addressed a proportion  of the shortfall, 
particularly as theyd  instructed  further works and so the overall project costs had risen, 
creating an overspend of £16,742.16.
I think the inference was that Mr W and Ms H had embarked on a project  which they couldnt 
afford. And theyd then, and without  Suffolk Lifes knowledge or consent,  instructed further  
works so that the costs of the project had risen, creating  a very significant overspend, which  
meant that substantial further funding being  required,  not just to cover the costs of the 
project but to meet essential outgoings  such as the loan repayments. I think that suggests  a 
degree of irresponsibility  or at least carelessness and/or a lack of planning. I can see it 
wouldve been very embarrassing for Mr W and Ms H. And even  if the disclosure went  no 
further than the contractor  concerned.  
Once data has been disclosed there are limited steps which  can be taken to mitigate any 
damage. Suffolk Life did what  it could  it acted promptly to contact the contractor and ask 
that email was destroyed and that the information  contained wasnt  disclosed. And it has 
apologised. 
Ref: DRN283322013I take Mr W and Ms Hs point that once  someone  is in possession of information then that 
cant be undone. But the contractor concerned seems to have acted responsibly by drawing  
the disclosure to Suffolk Lifes attention  promptly. I think that tends  to suggest hed have 
abided by the request to delete the email and not use the information that it contained.  
Mr W and Ms H suggest that the content of the email was discussed with other contractors. I 
accept thats possible  but theres no real way of knowing if that was the case.  The other 
contractors could be contacted and asked  for their recollection of events but I dont see that 
would be helpful.  It would  draw unnecessary and unwanted attention to something that may 
or may not have happened  some  four years ago. 
I dont think Mr W and Ms H can point  to anything specific which suggests that the breach 
went further than the contractor  concerned  and that theyve suffered financial loss or further  
distress and inconvenience as a result. And, given that some four years has elapsed since  
the breach, Id have thought any future  and further  repercussions were unlikely.
Ive approached compensation on the basis that the breach was limited  to the contractor  
concerned although Ive borne in mind that, at the time, Mr W and Ms H wouldnt  have  
known if the breach had been contained  and theyd have been  understandably  worried  that 
the implications and damage  might be more far reaching. 
summary
Ive found, and as Suffolk Life itself has acknowledged, that Suffolk Life made several errors. 
From what  Ive seen and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  think  Mr W and Ms H 
suffered any financial  loss. In particular, and as Ive said above,  I dont agree that the claims 
for lost rental income and business rates are justified. Or that Mr W and Ms H wouldve 
spent less but for the error in including the VAT reclaim amount in the property account 
balance. So I cant agree that Mr W and Ms Hs starting figure for compensation of £20,000 
is justified. 
But they have  suffered  distress and inconvenience or trouble and upset. Although  I think that 
was substantial, Im conscious that the level of awards we make might be lower than Mr W 
and Ms H might expect. On our website we say we award compensation for distress,  
inconvenience, pain and suffering and damage  to reputation. We give some examples of 
awards for distress and inconvenience  which might be moderate (less than £500); 
substantial (£500 to £2000);  severe (£2,000 to £5,000); or extreme (£5,000 or more). 
In this case Id say that overall the distress and inconvenience (including damage to 
reputation but on the basis that was limited to the contractor  concerned  in respect of the data 
breach) was in the substantial category for both Mr W and Ms H. 
And I think Ms H has been impacted more  than Mr W. I say that taking into account what 
happened about the electrician and which impacted more on Ms H given that she was the 
recipient of the solicitors letter and that she knew the electrician personally.  It also seems 
that she knew the other contractors personally  whereas  Mr W didnt and so the data breach 
would have caused more distress to her than for Mr W.  
I think the sum the adjudicator suggested  for Mr W - £1,000  - was about right.   But because 
Ms H was more personally impacted, I think a higher  amount is appropriate. Id suggest 
£2,000. Thats also consistent with what Mr W and Ms H say about the respective time each 
Ref: DRN283322014of them  has spent dealing  with the matter.  It seems that Ms H has borne the brunt of the 
work involved. 
Suffolk Life should pay those sums to Mr W and Ms H respectively, less the £100 each 
which Suffolk Life offered  to Mr W and Ms H and assuming the cheques for those amounts 
were cashed. If not then the full amounts of £1,000  and £2,000 should be paid. 
And Suffolk  Life should, as it has already offered, waive all its fees for dealing with the 
building works  and the change of tenant.  As set out above Id ask Suffolk  Life to confirm how 
that refund/non charge  has been  accounted  for.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms H confirmed that she and Mr W had received my provisional decision. She said she 
didnt have any more  to add. The outcome wasnt as she wanted but she was prepared to 
accept my provisional decision as it meant she (and Mr W) would get some compensation 
for what had happened. She added  that shed never cashed the cheque for £100 and she 
suspected that was the same for Mr W.  Suffolk Life said it was disappointed  with the 
proposed outcome and compensation award. But, to bring the matter to a close, it too 
accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But, and in the absence  of any new 
arguments or information, my views remain as set out in my provisional decision. That 
means Im upholding the complaint for the reasons  Ive given. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Suffolk Life Pensions  Limited  should  give £1,000 to Mr W and £2,000 
to Ms H less any sums already paid.   Suffolk Life Pensions Limited  should  also waive its 
fees for dealing with the building works and change of tenant and confirm to Mr W and Ms H 
how the refund/non charge has been accounted for. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2833220