K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  about  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim under her income  protection insurance policy and to void the policy.  Aviva  did this 
because it believed Miss A had misrepresented  her medical history  on applying  for the 
policy.
background
In July 2016, Miss A applied to take out the policy, which would provide a regular benefit  if 
she were unable to work due to illness or injury.  She completed a medical questionnaire. On 
the basis of the information provided, Aviva  accepted her application and cover began.
During 2018, Miss A became unable to work due to a shoulder problem. She made a claim 
under her policy.
After obtaining  Miss As medical records, Aviva  declined the claim and voided the policy. It 
said she had failed  to answer correctly some  of the questions she had been  asked at 
application and as a result hadnt disclosed her full medical  history. It said that if it had been 
made aware  of the full information about  her medical history,  it wouldnt have offered her 
cover. It said it was satisfied that Miss A hadnt  deliberately misrepresented her situation and 
it therefore refunded  all the premiums shed paid since  the policys inception. 
Miss A was unhappy  at Avivas decision. She considered  that she had answered the 
questions truthfully. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  it 
had been fair for Aviva to take the action it did.
Miss A didnt accept  the investigators  findings. The matter has therefore  been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The questionnaire which Miss A was asked to complete at application including the following 
question:
Within the last four years  have you had, or have you taken medication for, or been advised 
to take medication  or have treatment for:
Any pain or restriction  In movement In the back, neck, shoulder or joints  (Including traumatic  
injury), a slipped disc, sciatica, rheumatic, arthritic  or muscular complaints  including gout, 
repetitive strain Injury, neuralgia or fibromyalgia?
Miss A answered yes.
Miss A was invited to select her particular problem from a drop-down list. She selected:
Ref: DRN21456532Backache (with no underlying medical  cause)
Miss A was then asked  supplementary questions about this. Im satisfied these questions 
were all clear. I list some  of these questions, and Miss As answers, below:
Q: Have  you been referred to a specialist or required hospital treatment because of a back  
condition in the last 5 years? 
A: Yes
Q: Are you fully recovered, free from restrictions in movement, with no continuing symptoms  
from your back  or neck condition?
A: Yes
Q: When did you last experience symptoms of this condition?
A: More than 1 year but less than 3 years ago
Q: During the last 5 years, how many days have you taken off work because you have been 
unable to carry out all aspects of your work,  or have you been unable  to perform all of your 
normal daily activities because of back or neck pain?
A: 5 days or less
Q: Please give details of the outcome of your specialist referral  or treatment, including  dates.
A: Lower back pain in 2012, the nerves  were  then burnt in 2015, no further Issues since this 
date
The medical evidence  shows that Miss A did indeed have a history of back  pain and 
associated symptoms. However, this problem hadnt resolved in 2015  as implied by the 
answers above. In fact, Miss A had been on repeat prescription  medication  for back  pain for 
over two years at the time she applied  for the policy. And she had visited  her GP in July 
2016, four months before taking out the policy, complaining of left leg sciatica  pain for which  
she had been  receiving physiotherapy. Her GP advised that she should  wait a few days to 
see whether her pain settled before  he would  consider referring her again  to her back 
specialist. This suggests that in the opinion of the GP the sciatica was related  to Miss As 
back problem.
I consider that in view of the medication  she was continuing to take and the relatively recent  
visit to her GP, it was incorrect  of Miss A to answer that she was fully recovered with no 
continuing symptoms  from her back condition. I also think  it was wrong for her to say that 
she last experienced  symptoms of this condition more than one year ago. And I think  it was 
wrong of her to say that shed  had no further issues since her treatment in 2015.
Miss A has said that she took the medication as a preventative measure. However, I take 
this to mean that if she stopped taking  the medication, she would suffer  pain. This being the 
case, I think she should have disclosed it rather than answered  yes to the question as to 
whether she was fully recovered from her back condition.
Miss A has said that she didnt see the full question  and that her financial adviser simply 
asked her whether  she still had symptoms. However, I note that Miss A was sent the fully 
completed questionnaire  and was asked to check it. So even if I thought  that Miss A might 
have inadvertently given a wrong  answer due to not being asked the full question, it is still 
the case that she was given  the opportunity to correct this later on and failed to do so.
Ref: DRN21456533Miss A says that in respect of her visit to the GP in July 2016 and the physiotherapy she was 
undergoing at the time, this was in relation to hip pain and wasnt  related to her lower back  
problem. However, as I have explained,  the fact that her GP was considering a referral  to 
her back  specialist indicates that he regarded  it as a back issue. And Aviva has pointed out 
that Miss As medical notes indicate  that her hip, sciatica and back pain are linked to one 
another.
In any case, even if I were  persuaded that the sciatica problem which  Miss A was 
experiencing in July 2016 was entirely unrelated to her back problem, it would have meant  
that Miss A should, in my opinion, have separately  disclosed  the sciatica  and the treatment 
shed received in response to other questions on the application. Miss A didnt do this.
There are also two consultant letters on file from January 2014 which report  that Miss A had 
been off work for the past two weeks with leg pain. I note that Miss A regards this episode as 
related to her back problem but disputes the accuracy of the reports.  She concedes, 
however, that she may have been  off for one week which she had overlooked  and would 
mean that she should have answered  her total absence over the past five years due to her 
back problem was 6-10 days.
Aviva has provided evidence that if Miss A had answered the questions correctly  about her 
medical history, it would have refused cover on the grounds she represented too much of a 
risk. Im satisfied that this is what Aviva would have  done.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that at the application stage, Aviva asked Miss A clear questions  
and she answered  them incorrectly.  If Miss A had answered these questions correctly, Aviva  
wouldnt have offered her cover. This being  the case, Im satisfied it was fair for Aviva  to 
decline her claim  and void her policy.
Aviva accepts that Miss A didnt deliberately or recklessly provide incorrect answers  but 
simply did so through carelessness. I agree with this assessment. This being the case,  I 
agree with Avivas  action  to refund all of Miss As premiums.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2145653