K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains about an annuity  she took out with Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  in 2012. She 
feels the annuity was mis-sold because she wasnt told about the open market  option nor 
was she told she could  have been entitled to an enhanced annuity  because of medical 
conditions she had at the time. Mrs T would like her annuity increased in line with her 
medical conditions.
background
Mrs T had a pension with Lloyds. In 2012, she converted her pension  into a tax-free  lump  
sum and an annuity,  also with Lloyds. She says Lloyds  didnt  advise her properly about her 
annuity. In particular, she says she wasnt told about her right to shop around for an annuity, 
known as the open market option. She says Lloyds didnt ask her about  any medical 
conditions she had at the time and so she feels shes been financially disadvantaged as a 
result.
Lloyds say it didnt advise  Mrs T but provided  her with all the necessary information  to make  
an informed decision.  It says the original retirement pack was issued to Mrs T, on 27 July 
2012 along with the key features booklet.  It says this met with regulatory requirements. It 
goes on to say after issuing this pack Mrs T contacted Lloyds  and requested  further 
information regarding her policies. A representative confirmed, via email, that it could  not 
provide policy information in an email and would be putting this in the post, along with some 
retirement figures and projections.  A detailed letter was sent to Mrs T on 7 August 2012  with 
all the requested information. 
An investigator looked into matters for Mrs T and in his first view said, he felt Lloyds had 
fulfilled their obligation to provide you with the necessary information to make  an informed  
decision on both the open market option and option of enhanced annuities. 
Mrs T then provided further information that led the investigator to change his earlier  view 
and he told Lloyds what he thought they should  do to put things right for Mrs T.
Lloyds then responded and provided  further information  that was reviewed by another  
investigator. He reviewed all the information  from both parties and issued a third view. He 
said on balance he found Lloyds to have met their regulatory obligations  by providing a 
booklet explaining  the options Mrs T should consider before making  her decision and so 
didnt ask them to do anything further.
Mrs T disagreed,  she doesnt feel this is a fair outcome and so she asked for an ombudsman  
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have reviewed all the information  
provided by both parties afresh. Having done so, Im afraid Im not going  to uphold  this 
complaint. I appreciate this will come  as a great disappointment to Mrs T, Ill explain  why.
Mrs T has raised  a number of concerns about  her annuity and other matters. My decision 
here only considers  the issues set out in the complaint heading above. The other complaints 
are being  considered separately.
Ref: DRN27935982Im also aware that that there have been  three separate views  issued on this matter  and I 
can appreciate this must have been very frustrating for Mrs T. Unfortunately,  this can 
happen when  new information comes to light as one or both parties seek to provide 
information in support  of their position.
In reaching my decision, I have taken into account relevant law, regulatory guidelines and 
industry practice at the time. Where the information I have is unclear or contradictory, as 
some of it is here,  Im required to reach  a decision on the balance of probabilities,  that is to 
say, what I think is more  likely to have  happened.
I havent been persuaded Mrs Ts annuity sale was on an advised basis.  I say this because 
theres nothing to show Mrs Ts personal  circumstances  were discussed in detail  such as a 
financial fact find or a personal  recommendation. But, as the provider of her annuity, Lloyds 
were still required to provide certain  information to Mrs T before she made a decision on her 
retirement income choices.
In March 2012, the Association of British  Insurers (ABI) published its Code of Conduct  on 
Retirement Choices. It included information  such as, but not limited to the details providers 
needed to go into about actual medical conditions that are likely to qualify for an enhanced 
annuity as well as explain if they cant provide an enhancement and signposting to sources 
of advice and support  for customers. It also required providers to give clear  and concise 
information to ensure  consumers are able to make informed decisions about  retirement  
income products  and be able to shop around. 
Ive carefully considered  the booklet  Lloyds say they enclosed with the letter on 27 July 
2012. It includes a section on shopping around (open market  option), and how to go about it. 
It also has a section on enhanced life annuities  and the health  conditions. Importantly, it says 
always check  if youre entitled to an enhanced  life with your provider. Lloyds werent  
advising Mrs T so the responsibility lies with Mrs T to either take financial advice if she was 
unsure of her options. Im satisfied the booklet  provided, meets the obligations Lloyds were 
required to meet, in providing Mrs T with the necessary information to make an informed 
decision.
I can see from the information provided, Mrs T contacted Lloyds by telephone on 27 July 
2012. During this call, she asked for information  to be sent to her regarding her pension 
policies. She also explained she had moved house  and gave the details of her new address. 
Ive looked at the letter Lloyds sent, dated the same  day, which was sent to the new address 
given. It explains Mrs T can take her retirement  benefits now and should  she wish to do so, 
she should complete  the enclosed response form. The letter  refers  to documents  enclosed 
which include a Key features document and cancellation notice, a leaflet entitled Notes on 
Documentation and a further document entitled  Your Right to Think Over Your  Options.
Mrs T has said she didnt  receive any booklet  or information regarding her options. But, she 
does confirm in her letter dated 7 August 2012,  she received the letter  dated  27 July 2012.  I 
have no reason to doubt this letter didnt include the documents referred to within.  
Ive looked carefully  at the email correspondence between  Mrs T and the Lloyds  
representative after receipt of the July letter. Theres no mention any missing information in 
her email  exchanges. As she acknowledges receipt of the letter,  Im persuaded its more  
likely than not she did receive the additional documents  referred  to, and enclosed  within  the 
Ref: DRN27935983letter. Mrs T also makes  it clear  within the emails she has decided to take her retirement  
benefits and is seeking guidance on practicalities of doing so. 
Ive then looked at the Annuity Response form which Mrs T faxed back to Lloyds with a view 
to expediting the process  in order to take her pension. She refers to being in a hurry to do 
so on more than one occasion.  The form details  two options available.  The first being the 
option to take the pension benefits with or without  a tax-free lump  sum. The second  option 
reads:
I do not require pension benefits as quoted. Please provide further figures  based on the 
following benefits. (Use the enclosed brochure to state below which  particular benefits  you 
require including  any open market option instructions)
Taking into account all the evidence available,  Im persuaded there was sufficient 
information in both the booklet and on the Annuity Response Form to meet the regulatory 
requirements at the time. I appreciate Mrs T may not recall  the information but I havent seen 
anything that suggests it wasnt sent and it was also referred to on the response form she 
signed and returned.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mrs T was hoping for but for the reasons Ive outlined 
above Im not in a position to say Lloyds have acted  unreasonably or that it should  change 
the basis on which Mrs Ts annuity provision was originally set up.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793598