K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that Experian  Limited  (Experian) prevented her from accessing her account 
when she says it was still active.
background
When Experian advised of price increases on her account access  Mrs P told them  shed like 
to end her agreement. She was therefore  informed that her membership would end on 23 
September 2018.
But she says that when she tried to access  her account on 22 September 2018 she couldnt. 
She raised  the issue with Experian  who said that they hadnt blocked her account and it was 
still available to her on 22 September.  She disputed  this and they promised to get back to 
her but didnt.
Experian have  offered  Mrs P £25 compensation because they accept there were delays 
getting back to her. However, they dont accept that the account  was prematurely blocked. 
So Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion. He 
noted that Experian were able to provide screenshots  of their internal system which showed 
Mrs P had been able to successfully login on 22 September  at about 8pm. The system also 
explained that a credit report  was generated. He was therefore persuaded that Mrs P hadnt 
been denied  access  to the account.  
He went on to consider  whether Experian had delayed  matters. He noted that theyd 
responded to Mrs Ps concerns  within  the eight week time limit their legislators, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA),  required. So he didnt think  there  was evidence to suggest  theyd 
delayed their response too much and overall,  he didnt think  they needed to take any further  
action.
But Mrs P did and she therefore asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mrs P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed the internal screenshot provided  by Experian and Im persuaded this suggests  
that Mrs P did have access to her credit file on 22 September 2018  when  she claims she 
was blocked. It also seems clear, from this internal system information,  that a credit report  
Ref: DRN28133962was generated  so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to suggest Experian  had done 
anything wrong.
They provided £25 compensation  to Mrs P for the delay  in responding to her. That also 
sounds reasonable as there  were  some delays when responding to emails but I do note that 
they provided a final response in six weeks and are allowed a little longer under the rules 
that govern them and are provided by the FCA. They  didnt need  to keep considering  the 
issue and in that final response  they correctly advised Mrs P that she could now refer her 
complaint to this service.  So, again, I dont think they need to take any further action and 
overall, I think their actions have been  fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2813396