K820x#14complaint
Ms H says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a secured loan.
background
Ms H took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 1994. Ms H paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Hs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Ms H, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  
its understandable that neither side have the original documents  from the sale.  Indeed, 
under data protection regulations, Halifax were required to dispose  of Ms Hs documents  
rather than hold onto them  for too long. Ms H doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think 
thats understandable  either  way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying  
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Ms Hs 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking it was compulsory. But I have  no evidence 
which shows thats what Halifax did here. Ms H provided a letter relating to her secured loan, 
which didnt mention PPI. But Im afraid  I dont think this shows  it was mis-sold  it was only 
a covering letter, and it may just be that it didnt mention the policy because PPI was an 
optional extra and not part of the process of applying for the loan itself. Indeed, Halifaxs 
secured loan conditions from the time describe PPI as optional and seem to say that PPI 
would only be granted if the customer specifically applied for it.
Ive not seen any wider  problems  with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor any 
indication that it was normally misleading  customers in these sales.  And this sale was too 
long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents  to defend  
itself now. So I dont  think I have  a fair basis  on which to conclude  that Halifax misled Ms H. 
I think its more likely that it followed a fairly  normal sales process and gave her a choice  
about whether  she wanted it, and that she chose it at the time  though  I can certainly 
understand if Ms H no longer remembers doing so after so long.
Ref: DRN27190152Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Ms H, or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Ms H, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Ms H wasnt affected  by any the 
policys main exclusions  or limitations. And she doesnt seem  to have had any other 
significant protection in place at all. So without  PPI, she was potentially  at serious risk if 
shed been off sick or lost her job. Its worth  bearing  in mind that this loan was Ms Hs sole 
responsibility and was secured against her home,  and if she fell behind on her payments she 
couldve lost her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  really been useful for Ms H in 
protecting her home and giving  some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Ms H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  Ms H wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful for her in case  something went wrong.  
The policy was not bad value given what it could pay out in a claim. And the PPI was paid on 
a rolling monthly  basis, so Ms H could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2719015