K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Southern  Pacific  Mortgage Limited shouldnt have offered them 
an interest only mortgage. They were unable to repay the capital when the mortgage expired 
and are worried about losing their home.  Mr and Mrs N are represented by their daughter,  
who Ill refer to as Miss N. Mr and Mrs N want to remain in their home  and receive justice for 
the mortgage being mis-sold to them.
background
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage in March 2007  for £139,500  on an interest  only basis over 
a ten-year term. The mortgage was arranged by a broker. Mr and Mrs N were  unable to 
repay the mortgage when its term expired in 2017.  
When Mr and Mrs N took out the mortgage they said it was their intention to switch to a 
repayment mortgage at a later date to ensure it was paid off, or sell the property.  Mr and 
Mrs N self-certified their income. Miss N says Mr and Mrs Ns income was inflated to make 
the mortgage appear affordable. She says SPML should have asked  for evidence of their 
income and expenditure and the repayment  vehicle. 
Mr and Mrs N say SPML didnt contact them during the mortgage to term to check how they 
intended to repay the mortgage. Instead, it wrote to them  once and they didnt open the 
letter. After  the mortgage expired, they say SPML declined the payment plans they offered  
and took court action to possess the property.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint about SPML  offering  the mortgage  should be 
upheld. She said the information about Mr and Mrs Ns income was consistent in the 
application documents and SPML wouldnt have known  if it wasnt correct. 
Our investigator said SPML hadnt  acted unreasonably in taking action to recover  the debt 
after the mortgage term expired. It took Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances into account and 
agreed to hold recovery action to allow  Mr and Mrs N time to look into their options. When 
Mr and Mrs N said they intended to sell the property, SPML had held recovery  action to 
allow them to do this. 
However, our investigator said SPML had caused  unnecessary upset. It failed to provide 
information requested  by Mr and Mrs N on three occasions in 2019 and had sent a warrant  
for possession letter  in February 2019  after it said proceedings were on hold. The 
investigator said SPML should pay compensation of £250 for this.
SPML agreed to pay the compensation. Mr and Mrs N didnt agree. On their behalf, Miss N 
said, in summary:
the mortgage was rushed through. It wasnt affordable and SPML  shouldnt  have offered 
the mortgage without proof of income  and a repayment vehicle. Mr and Mrs N fell into 
arrears soon after taking  out the mortgage.  
SPML didnt make enough effort to contact Mr and Mrs N about  their strategy to repay 
the mortgage. 
SPML used scare tactics after the mortgage  term expired.
Ref: DRN27934152My provisional decision:
As Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our investigators recommendations, the complaint was 
passed to me. I issued  a provisional  decision,  to explain what I thought about this complaint. 
I set out the following provisional findings  in my provisional decision:
the offer of the mortgage in 2007
Regulations related to mortgage lending have changed considerably  since Mr and 
Mrs N took out their mortgage.  But I have to take account of regulation  and good  
industry practice at that time when reaching my decision.
Mr and Mrs N took out a 10 year mortgage in 2007  on an interest  only basis. The 
documents say the mortgage was arranged by a broker on a non-advised basis.  The 
broker and SPML provided documents from that time, including  the mortgage 
application, the mortgage offer and correspondence.  Mr and Mrs N used the 
mortgage proceeds to re-finance their first charge  mortgage (about £94,000)  and 
second charge  mortgage (about £33,000).  They repaid unsecured debt of about 
£1,500. Fees of about £5,300 were added  to the mortgage loan.  
The mortgage application says Mr and Mrs Ns income was £30,000 each. SPML  
asked the broker  to break down Mr and Mrs Ns income between their employed and 
self employed income and to explain why the income was self certified. Miss N says 
this shows SPML knew the mortgage was unaffordable. But SPML was entitled to 
ask for more information about Mr and Mrs Ns income  which  the broker provided.  I 
dont think this means SPML knew the mortgage  wasnt affordable or that the 
information provided to it wasnt  correct.  
Mr and Mrs Ns income  was self certified,  as permitted  by regulations at that time. Mr 
and Mrs N signed a declaration to self-certify their income as £30,000 each. They  
also signed the fact find completed  with the broker, confirming it was accurate. The 
income information is consistent across the documents related to the mortgage sale.
The mortgage application says Mr and Mrs N intended to switch  to capital repayment 
in about two years. At that time, SPML didnt need  to ask for evidence  of Mr and Mrs 
Ns repayment vehicle.  
Miss N says Mr and Mrs N signed  blank forms and information was completed later, 
or that information  in the forms  was altered  by the broker  after Mr and Mrs N had 
signed. I havent seen evidence to support  this. And I cant see that SPML would 
have known if this had happened. 
I dont know if the income stated in the mortgage documents was correct or if Mr and 
Mrs N believed at the time that it was correct. Mr and Mrs N had defaults recorded on 
their credit files and had missed payments to their second charge lender, which they 
said in the mortgage application  was due to Mr N not working  for a time due to an 
injury. But this doesnt mean that SPML should have  known that the income 
information it received   which suggested the mortgage was affordable  wasnt 
correct. 
Ref: DRN27934153Contact during the mortgage term about how the mortgage would be repaid
Miss N says SPML didnt  do enough to contact  Mr and Mrs N about  their plans to 
repay the mortgage. But its hard to see how more  contact  would  have helped.  Mr 
and Mrs N struggled to maintain contractual monthly  payments on an interest only 
basis throughout the mortgage term. It seems unlikely theyd have  been  able to 
afford to switch to capital  repayment or had the means  to fund an investment vehicle.
Miss N says if the repayment plan was to sell the property,  SPML  should have 
contacted Mr and Mrs N early enough to allow  them time to organise this. SPML 
wrote to Mr and Mrs N in March 2016 saying  that the mortgage is interest only and 
they will need to make plans to repay  it. It gives examples of ways  they might  repay 
the debt  such as from investments or sale of the property.  This was a year before 
the mortgage expired, which would usually be enough time for Mr and Mrs N to try 
and sell the property  if they wanted  to do so. 
action taken by SPML to recover the debt after the mortgage term expired
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage expired in March 2017  with an unpaid  balance of about 
£143,000. 
Mr and Mrs N are a difficult  situation.  They borrowed the money from SPML,  and 
they do have to pay it back.  Fairness  requires,  as a starting point,  that they did so 
when it was due at the end of the term. However, it seems, from what Mr and Mrs N 
have said, they dont have the means  to repay  the mortgage other than by selling the 
property. There are restrictions on the property title related to debts owed to other 
creditors, and it seems  this has made  it difficult for Mr and Mrs N to sell the property.
Understandably, Mr and Mrs N have  found  this situation very upsetting. Id expect 
SPML to pay due regard  to Mr and Mrs Ns interests  and treat them  fairly.  The 
regulator issued  guidance for lenders when dealing with customers  who are unable  
to repay  their interest  only mortgages. I think this is good starting point here.
The guidance encourages lenders to communicate with customers. After  maturity, 
lenders communications with customers should  encourage  them  to contact  the firm 
to agree a resolution and set out options  available,  with warnings of the potential 
consequences of not taking action.
SPML wrote  to Mr and Mrs N about  the unpaid balance. It asked them to contact it on 
the number provided  and gave contact details for organisations  offering advice. It 
asked Mr and Mrs N to provide information about their income and expenditure. 
These letters also set out the possible consequences of not getting in contact to 
repay the debt,  including legal action to take possession and/or a visit by a field 
agent.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs N found  these letters upsetting. But I think  it was 
right for SPML to write  to them about the debt and encourage  them to remain  in 
contact with the aim of agreeing a way for the debt to be repaid.
The regulators guidance  gives examples of options  that lenders can offer customers, 
such as switching to capital repayment  or extending  the term to allow time for 
repayment or to sell the property. Id only expect SPML to offer an option  which  is 
Ref: DRN27934154likely to improve the situation for Mr and Mrs N. Ive briefly summarised what  
happened after March  2017, when the mortgage  term expired.
There was contact between Mr and Mrs N and SPML in March  2017.  SPML  said it 
couldnt offer a capital repayment  mortgage.  Mrs N asked it to extend  the mortgage  
term while they re-mortgaged  or sold the property. 
In September  and October 2017  Mr and Mrs N told SPML they were in the process of 
re-mortgaging, and SPML asked for evidence of this. Mr and Mrs N didnt provide 
information about their income and expenditure or evidence of the re-mortgage. 
SPML says it was unsuccessful in contacting them  again. It started legal action in 
February 2018. 
A court hearing scheduled for April 2018  was adjourned to allow Mr and Mrs N time 
to prepare a defence.  A court order for possession was granted  in June 2018. Mr and 
Mrs N told SPML they were selling  the property. SPML held recovery  action: however 
it didnt receive evidence the property  was being  marketed for sale. 
In September  2018 Miss N told SPML the mortgage debt would be paid by a family 
member, who was taking out a mortgage  to buy the property. 
In November 2018 Miss N asked  SPML  to hold activity due to the effect on Mr and 
Mrs Ns health. SPML put a hold on activity until January 2019. 
In mid-January 2019, SPML asked its solicitors to enforce the warrant for 
possession. It agreed  to cancel this and allow three  months for the property sale to 
complete after Mrs N called to say the sale would soon complete. Miss N says she 
sent emails to SPML and its solicitors  about  this time without a response.  Although  
SPML put recovery action  on hold in late January, it was too late for it to stop a letter 
about taking possession going to Mr and Mrs N. 
The property sale was held up as there  are restrictions on the title relating to debts 
owed to other creditors. It seems the proceeds  of the sale of the property wouldnt be 
enough to repay the mortgage loan and these other debts. 
SPML put recovery action  on hold while we looked  into Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. 
Miss N provided an update on the sale of the property recently. An email  from Mr and 
Mrs Ns solicitor says they are negotiating settlements with Mr and Mrs Ns other 
creditors with the aim of removing restrictions on the property title to allow a sale to 
go ahead. 
what should happen now?
SPML offered £150  compensation for the upset  caused when it wasnt  able to stop its 
letter about  taking  possession in late January 2019.  Its agreed  to pay another £100 
compensation for the upset caused to Mr and Mrs N by not responding to Miss Ns 
emails. I think  this is fair.
Its now nearly three years  since  the mortgage term expired. SPML  agreed  to hold 
recovery action on a number of occasions to allow Mr and Mrs N time to pursue 
options to repay the loan. It took account of their circumstances  and put a further 
Ref: DRN27934155hold on action when  told about Mr and Mrs Ns poor health. It agreed to put action on 
hold while we looked into their complaint. 
I think SPML acted fairly in allowing Mr and Mrs N time to look at other options and to 
sell the property themselves. There are difficulties with the sale of the property, due 
to restrictions on the title. SPML isnt responsible for this. However,  it seems  from 
what Mr and Mrs Ns solicitor has said, that one or more of the restrictions on title 
could be removed in the near future  which would  allow a sale to go ahead.  I think  it 
would make sense  at this point for SPML to allow Mr and Mrs N some  more time to 
see if this is possible.  
I think SPML should hold further recovery action until the end of March 2020.  
Hopefully by then Mr and Mrs N will be able to provide evidence  to SPML  that their 
creditors have agreed to remove their restrictions on title and that the sale of the 
property is progressing. 
But I must be fair to both parties here. By the end of March  it will be three years since  
the mortgage expired. If Mr and Mrs N dont provide suitable evidence  by then that 
the sale of the property  is progressing, I dont think I can fairly require SPML  to 
continue to hold recovery action. 
What happened  since my provisional decision?
I issued my provisional decision in February 2020.  Ive delayed issuing my final decision.  
First because Miss N said in February  the sale of the house was well under way  and said 
shed send evidence  of this. And then due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related  
Government restrictions, which could  have caused  difficulties for Mr and Mrs N in completing 
the sale of their property  to a family  member,  or in moving home if this fell through  and 
SPML took possession.  The property market is now active  again and the Government  has 
changed restrictions and advice related to social distancing and shielding.  So, having  
considered what  the parties have said in response  to my provisional decision, I will now 
issue a final decision.  
SPML agreed to pay compensation  and hold recovery action, in line with my provisional 
decision. Miss N disagreed with my provisional decision, on behalf of Mr and Mrs N. 
Miss N referred to advice  from a solicitor which she says supports what she says. However, 
she didnt provide a copy  of the advice.
Miss N provided a copy of an email  from a solicitor about the sale of Mr and Mrs Ns 
property, suggesting  a completion  date of 7 April 2020, subject to some outstanding matters 
and exchange  of contracts. She hasnt since updated us.
Ms N said the compensation isnt enough for Mr and Mrs Ns distress and the time shes  
spent on the complaint. She asked how I knew Mr and Mrs N had a poor credit.  And she 
referred to points shed  made in previous emails which she feels werent fully addressed.
Miss N also raised a new issue, that SPML had unfairly added  interest  and fees to the 
mortgage account.
Ref: DRN27934156my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss N said I didnt  refer to the points raised  in her emails. We provide an informal dispute  
resolution service and in line with that I dont refer to every point made by either party, or 
each item of evidence I review or rely on. I have  read and considered  Miss Ns emails.  Miss 
N asked how I knew Mr and Mrs N had a poor credit. However,  I dont think I said they had a 
poor credit. 
Miss N says £250 isnt enough compensation for Mr and Mrs Ns distress. But I think their 
worry and upset is most likely due to having  a mortgage they cant repay  without selling their 
property. I dont think its wrong for SPML to contact Mr and Mrs N about repayment,  or 
unfair that it expects the mortgage  to be repaid.  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable 
to require it to pay more compensation for Mr and Mrs Ns upset. 
Miss N asks for compensation  for the time shes spent on this complaint. However, she isnt 
the complainant  here and our rules  dont allow me to award  compensation to her. 
Miss N also raised a concern about interest  and fees which she says were  unfairly added to 
Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage account.  While  she said shed send evidence of this she hasnt 
done so. It seems likely  this is a new issue  that is, it wasnt  part of the complaint that was 
brought to us. And so I cant  deal with it here. If Mr and Mrs N remain concerned, they 
should first raise their concerns with SPML.
Having re-read the evidence  and comments,  and considered the responses to my 
provisional decision, I dont intend  to change my findings  from those set out in my provisional 
decision. I appreciate  that Miss N disagrees,  but she hasnt provided any new evidence to 
persuade me to change my findings.  But I do need to consider what  should happen now.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator issued 
guidelines. Current guidelines say that lenders  cant take or resume possession  action until 
November 2020   by which time it will be more than three years since  the mortgage  term 
expired. SPML has acted fairly in allowing Mr and Mrs N time to sell the property 
themselves, or to investigate whether they have  another route to repay the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs N will have  a few months  breathing space, before November 2020, to complete 
the sale of their property  (if this hasnt already happened). They should keep SPML informed  
about the sale. Id expect  SPML to continue to treat Mr and Mrs N fairly while the sale 
completes, which  will hopefully be soon,  and to take into account any further guidance from 
the regulator. But, ultimately, if Mr and Mrs N arent able to sell the property or otherwise 
repay the mortgage, SPML is entitled  to take possession as a last resort.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited to pay 
£250 to Mr and Mrs N.
Ref: DRN27934157Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793415