K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a hire purchase  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 2009. Mr and Mrs H say First Response  Finance  Ltd (First Response)  mis-sold them  the 
PPI. The policy was taken  out with a joint hire purchase agreement  and the loan included  an 
amount to pay for the PPI policy.  This policy only covered Mr H.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive listened  to the conversation between First Response and Mr H when the PPI was 
sold. In this call First Response made it clear the PPI was optional and didnt say 
anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs H needed  to take the PPI in order to be 
approved for the finance. First Response also explained that there was a 14 day 
cooling off period, and that Mr and Mrs H would be able to cancel the PPI within  30 
days if they decided  they didnt want it.
The credit agreement that Mr and Mrs H signed  also referred to the PPI being 
optional. Its listed as Optional Payment Protection  Insurance. On this agreement a 
tick has been placed next to the option for PPI and Mr and Mrs H have also signed 
separately to agree  to take it out. 
So with all this in mind  I think  First Response  made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs H had a 
choice about taking the PPI and that they chose to take it to cover Mr H, knowing 
they didnt have to.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. Mr H did suffer with a medical condition  at the time, but First Response  
discussed this with him during  the sales call and explained that, while he would likely 
not be covered  for any period of illness caused  by this condition, he would be 
covered for a wide range  of other  conditions.  So it seems  that Mr H chose to take the 
PPI knowing that there might  be some limitations  on his ability  to claim.  Mr H wasnt  
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover,  and he seems to 
have had a need  for the cover.  
   Its possible the information First Response gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been. 
But the cost of the policy was explained  in the sales call, and shown on the loan 
agreement  including the amount of the premium, the interest payable on the 
premium and the total cost. So I think Mr and Mrs H would have understood how 
much the PPI would  cost if they kept the policy for its full term. And given how long 
the policy could  have paid out for, if Mr H made a successful claim they couldve got 
back quite a bit more than they paid for it. 
Ref: DRN29355722I think Mr and Mrs H chose to take the PPI out - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  It also seems  like it would have  been useful for them if Mr H had been too ill 
to work or had lost his job. Ive considered  what Mr H has said about his family being 
able to help with repayments, but circumstances can change and his family may not 
have been in a position to help when needed. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium  if they 
cancelled the policy early. I dont know if First Response thought about this when it 
recommended the policy. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr and Mrs H 
thought theyd repay the loan early.  So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt right 
for Mr H.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their policy   and whether 
First Response treated them unfairly.  
First Response has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs policy  was less than half 
of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked  at how First Response has been working 
this out and based on what  weve seen  it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission 
was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed  to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think First Response treated them  unfairly. This means it 
doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2935572