K820x#14complaint
Mr and Miss S say Santander UK Plc (trading as Abbey  National) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Miss S took out a mortgage with Santander in 1988. And in 2004  they took out a 
homeowner improvement loan and bought a PPI policy. It covered Mr S for up to 12 months  
for each  successful accident and sickness claim he made.
Mr S says (among other things) he had good sick pay through his work  and so didnt need 
the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Miss Ss complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree and 
so their complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander no longer has the paperwork from the sale but thats  not surprising or 
unreasonable given how long ago it took place. I cant know  what was said to Mr and Miss S 
when they were sold PPI  which I understand happened during a meeting  at a branch. But, 
based on what we know about Santanders sales  process in branch at the time,                     
Mr and Miss S wouldve been given  a booklet  about  the cover  and would  then have signed  a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit  mandate if they wanted to go ahead with it.
From the information Ive got, I understand Mr and Miss S only bought accident and sickness  
cover for Mr S  and not, for instance,  unemployment  cover as well. And it seems they 
chose not to get cover for Miss S. I think this, and what  Ive already mentioned about 
Santanders likely sales process at the time, shows its likely there was some  discussion at 
the time with Mr and Miss S about their insurance  needs and they chose  the cover they 
wanted.
Overall, without stronger evidence to the contrary,  I think its most likely it was made  clear  to 
Mr and Miss S they had a choice about  whether to take the PPI, and they agreed to take it 
out for Mr S.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Miss S so it had to check the cover  was right for 
them. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable  for them based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time and the policy details  Ive got. They say Mr S was entitled  to six 
months full pay and six months half pay if he was off work  sick. But the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 12 months for all successful accident and 
sickness claims.
Mr and Miss S also say they had some bonds.  I dont have any details about these bonds 
and, in particular,  I dont know when they matured. So I dont  have enough information to 
Ref: DRN26037632make me think its likely having the bonds  made the PPI unsuitable for them. I say this 
bearing in mind Mr and Miss Ss loan was secured  on their home.  So the effects  of not 
keeping up their mortgage repayments couldve serious for them.  Overall,  I think the PPI 
would have been useful for them if Mr S was sick or had an accident.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr and Miss S all the clear information they needed 
before they decided  to buy PPI. I dont know, for example, when it made the cost clear, but 
the PPI was apparently affordable. I also dont know if it pointed out the main  things the 
policy didnt cover. But Mr S doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of those things. 
This means,  overall, I dont think clearer information wouldve changed their decision to buy 
PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Miss S have lost out because of any problems with the sale.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Miss S because : 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Miss S about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
what Santander needs to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Miss S any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander should also pay back to    
Mr and Miss S any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Miss S the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Santander  should  also pay Mr and Miss S 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Miss S can claim back the tax they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN26037633my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Miss S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Miss S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2603763