K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the way that Lloyds  Bank General Insurance  Limited has 
handled their claim for damage following a water  leak.
background
In late 2018 Mr and Mrs F discovered  a water leak from their en-suite shower. This caused 
damage to the en-suite bathroom,  adjoining bedroom and kitchen below  when water  came 
through the ceiling. They  arranged for a plumber to fix the leak but made a claim to Lloyds 
for the damage  caused to their property.
Lloyds said Mr and Mrs F would  need  alternative accommodation  for approximately six to 
eight weeks whilst the repairs were  completed. Mr and Mrs F told Lloyds they would stay 
with family  during this time and a payment of £3500 was agreed as an inconvenience 
allowance for an eight week duration.
The works began in early  2019 and six weeks later Lloyds told Mr and Mrs F the property 
was habitable.  Mrs F wasnt happy  to move back in  she said the house was incredibly 
dusty and, as some of her children have asthma,  this wasnt acceptable. She also says the 
en-suite toilet wasnt installed at this point. 
In addition, she made the following comments;
the workman had scratched  her laminate flooring
her main  bathroom was left in a terrible state  and there  was damage to the bath and 
the sink. 
the standard of decoration completed, such as paintwork, was poor.
the electricity had been switched off for a long period, so she had to throw away  
defrosted food from her freezer.
Lloyds apologised  for the state of the bathroom and offered to arrange a deep clean. It also 
agreed to redecorate some aspects  of the property  but as Mrs F didnt want to use Lloyds 
contractors, it offered to pay her the sum it would have paid. But it didnt agree that it had 
caused any damage to the bath, sink or the laminate flooring downstairs.  Lloyds  said the 
electricity had been switched off for 15 minutes when the boiler  was being fitted and so this 
was not long enough to cause the food to defrost. 
Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with this response. They said they couldnt get the redecoration 
completed for the amount  Lloyds were prepared to pay. And they felt they had no choice but 
to replace the bathroom suite  so Lloyds should be responsible for these costs. They also 
said they should have been  paid more in accommodation allowance  as they couldnt return 
to the property when Lloyds said they could.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said dust is inevitable  when  such building 
work is taking place  so he didnt think any further allowance had to be paid. And he 
thought the offers made  by Lloyds to pay for redecorating and a deep clean seemed fair. He 
said the cost of the redecoration was what Lloyds would have had to pay its contractors, so it 
isnt liable to pay anymore. And he didnt  think there  was enough evidence to show that the 
damage Mr and Mrs F have highlighted, was caused by the workmen.
Ref: DRN28166022Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigators  opinion. They  also provided estimates from 
decorating firms with quotes for several thousand  pounds  to show  that the £500 offered 
was not enough. As this matter couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed  to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This complaint has been ongoing for some time and Im aware that there  are numerous 
issues which have been brought  up at different stages, some  of which may no longer be 
relevant. Im therefore  addressing what  I consider  to be the main points and for clarity Ive 
considered them separately below.
Alternative accommodation costs
Mr and Mrs F were  told they would be out of their home for eight weeks  and they agreed  a 
sum with Lloyds to cover  this period. Lloyds said the property was habitable after six weeks.  
But habitable doesnt necessarily mean finished.  A house is considered  habitable if there are 
working bathroom and kitchen  facilities. By this point  the major  works had been completed, 
including the kitchen, so the house  could be occupied again.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs F are 
unhappy with the amount of dust left in their home,  especially considering their childrens 
illnesses. But as the repairs included walls being removed, there was always going  to be 
some mess. And the property did have  another bathroom, so the fact the en-suite toilet 
wasnt fitted doesnt mean that the property wasnt habitable. 
Mr and Mrs F have  complained their family were all living in a small house with a relative  and 
they were put to great  inconvenience during  this time. But they have been compensated for 
this with the accommodation  allowance.  And, as I mentioned before, I think they could have  
moved back within the eight-week  timeframe.  So, Lloyds doesnt need to pay anything  more 
for alternative accommodation. 
Main bathroom and laminate flooring damage
During the time the works  were being completed, the main  bathroom  which wasnt affected  
by the water damage   was used by the workmen. Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with how this 
was left. Having  seen photos, I can see the bathroom was quite dirty and Lloyds should have 
made sure it was cleaned  prior to the family  returning. But I dont think  this means Lloyds  
should pay for the bathroom to be replaced. Lloyds offered to pay for a deep  clean to put this 
right and Im satisfied this is a reasonable way to deal with this issue.  
Turning to the damage to the sink and bath, Mr and Mrs F say these were damaged by the 
workmen, but Lloyds  doesnt agree. For me to require Lloyds to pay for the replacement of 
these items  I would need to be satisfied it was the contractors who caused  the damage, 
rather than something which had been  in existence before. But there  isnt enough  evidence  
to show that this is the case. 
And Im afraid my response in relation to the laminate flooring is much the same as for the 
bathroom. The photos provided  do appear to show scratches on the floor.  But what  the 
photos dont show  is when the damage  occurred. Lloyds has said its contractors put 
protective coverings down to prevent any damage - I know  Mrs F disputes this. However,  I 
Ref: DRN28166023have seen photos of parts of the house  where there were coverings on the floor. So, I think 
its more likely than not the floors  were covered and Im not persuaded Lloyds should have to 
pay for a new floor to be laid.
Standard of decoration and costs to put right
 
Lloyds has accepted some of the decoration completed by its contractors was not up to 
standard and it has offered to pay to put this right.  Mr and Mrs Fs main point here is the 
amount offered is too low. So, what I need  to consider is whether the amount it has offered is 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs F have  provided this service with estimates for the work they think needs 
completing. These quotes are for a lot more than the amount offered  by Lloyds and dont 
appear to detail the areas and extent  of the work the estimates  are for. So it isnt clear if 
these prices are in relation to the same work Lloyds has agreed to cover.  Im aware there  is 
a dispute over whether such matters as drips  on the paintwork and damage to internal  doors  
were caused  by the contractors. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to pay to put right any existing 
issues and so I agree that Lloyds is entitled  to limit the work it is prepared to do.
The offer of £500 made by Lloyds  relates  to the amount it would  have to pay its contractors. 
Insurers are often able to negotiate discounted  rates with different  tradesmen due to the 
amount of work  it has available   this could  explain why there  is such  a difference from the 
private quotes Mr and Mrs F have provided. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs F may not want the same contractors to come back  in to their 
house, considering their other complaint points. But Lloyds has offered to put things right 
and I think it is fair for it to be given this opportunity. As it hasnt been given this chance then 
it is reasonable Lloyds only pays what it would have  been charged  by its contractors  so Im 
not persuaded Lloyds needs to increase  the offer.
Freezer goods
Mr and Mrs F want Lloyds  to pay for the costs of replacing their freezer contents which they 
say were ruined  when  the electricity supply  was switched off. Lloyds says the electricity  was 
turned off for 15 minutes only when  the gas engineers were working on the boiler. Power 
shortages of such short  time frames wouldnt normally cause the freezer  contents to defrost  
 generally a fully functioning freezer will be able to maintain its temperature for several 
hours. Based on this I think its unlikely the problem  was caused when the contractors turned 
off the power  and so I dont require Lloyds  to reimburse the cost of the defrosted food.
Other issues
I understand there has been a further  leak in the bathroom which Mr and Mrs F think  relates 
to the same  issue. Lloyds  has said this is an existing problem and doesnt  relate  to anything 
its contractors have  done - it has commented  that there could be an issue  further down the 
existing pipework  not in relation to the work it completed. Lloyds says Mr and Mrs F will 
need to make a separate claim  for any damage  that has been caused by this problem.
Mrs F has recently  provided a report  from a plumber. Amongst other things,  this report says 
the incorrect sized pipes  have been used  which has contributed  to this leak.  As this is new 
Ref: DRN28166024information, Ive shared  this with Lloyds and asked for its comments. Lloyds disagrees with 
the findings of this report and has provided copies of invoices for Mr and Mrs Fs repairs 
which include the purchase of the right sized waste pipe. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  Whilst I appreciate the information provided by Mrs F, I find 
it unlikely that Lloyds would purchase  the correct size pipe and then fit a different one. Mrs F 
has been unable  to provide any photos  to show the measurement of the pipe used to 
support the comments made by her plumber. In the circumstances,  there  isnt enough  
evidence to show that the second leak was caused by the work completed  by Lloyds. 
Mr and Mrs F have  also asked Lloyds to provide a breakdown of the costs it has paid for the 
works completed by the contractors. Lloyds has refused to provide this as it considers this 
information to be commercially sensitive  meaning that it could impact its business if the 
details were available to the public.  It isnt clear to me why Mr and Mrs F want  to know the 
costs of their claim  as I mentioned previously, insurers often have the benefit  of discounted 
rates - the amounts therefore might not reflect the average costs available  to a private  
individual. So, based on this I think it is reasonable for Lloyds to refuse the request  to 
provide the costings for the claim to Mr and Mrs F.  
Overall, I would like to say it is clear this has been  a difficult  time for Mr and Mrs F. Mrs F 
has mentioned her state of health and how this has affected her. I have every sympathy for 
her  dealing  with repairs to a property  that are as extensive as those in her home can be 
quite stressful. And Im sure this has been  incredibly inconvenient for her family. But this 
doesnt mean I think Lloyds have acted unfairly in its handling of the claim. From what  I have  
seen it has listened  to her concerns and arranged  for any snagging issues to be fixed or 
money provided to enable  her to get these done.  Im satisfied it has acted appropriately and 
so I dont require  it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2816602