K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains because Aviva  Insurance Limited  hasnt paid the full amount of a 
cancellation claim under his travel insurance policy. Mr C is also unhappy with Avivas 
delays in dealing  with his claim. 
All references to Aviva  include the agents it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background
Mr C holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of his bank account. The policy is
underwritten by Aviva.
Mr C paid a deposit  for accommodation abroad  in 2015. He paid the balance due for the
accommodation on 20 May 2016.  Unfortunately Mr C subsequently  had to cancel his trip due
to ill-health. So he made a claim with Aviva for the total cost of the accommodation.
In December 2016 Aviva said it would refund the deposit Mr C paid, less the policy excess.
But it said the balance  paid on 20 May 2016  wouldnt be covered because  Mr C had been
referred by his doctor for an x-ray and further  reviews when he paid this money. Aviva  said
Mr C hadnt told it about these medical  issues  and any money paid when Mr C was under
the care of a doctor for an undiagnosed condition wasnt covered under his policy.
Mr C contacted Aviva again in December 2017  to ask for copies of the information  his doctor
had provided to it. In February 2018 Mr C told Aviva the information provided  by his GP on
the original medical  certificate was incorrect and that Aviva could write to the GP to confirm
this.
Mr C first contacted this service about his complaint in March 2018.
Aviva emailed Mr C a final response letter on 12 April 2018 addressing his complaints about
the claims decision and the delays in the claims process. Aviva later resent  this email to
Mr C on 8 May 2018. Mr C responded to say this was no different to what  Aviva  had told him 
in December 2016 and he was looking for an update about whether Aviva had contacted his 
GP again.
Aviva wrote to Mr C in May 2018  with an offer to pay £100 compensation for failing to send
the information his GP had provided  when Mr C had asked for it. Aviva sent Mr C a further
letter in June  2018 saying if he could provide further information from his GP it would be
happy to review this.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. She said she didnt think  Aviva had been
unfair by refusing to pay for the balance of Mr Cs trip. However  she said Aviva  would be
happy to reconsider  if Mr C had new information from his doctor. Our investigator said Aviva
received Mr Cs claim form in September 2016 and was waiting on further information from
Mr Cs doctor before  it could make  a decision about  the claim, which it did in December
2016. So she didnt  think Aviva had taken an unreasonable amount of time to consider
Mr Cs claim.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators opinion.
After our investigator sent her opinion about  the complaint,  Mr C sent new evidence  directly
Ref: DRN26325022to Aviva  a letter from his GP dated 4 October 2018. Aviva told Mr C it wouldnt be
commenting on this any further as the complaint was with our service.
Aviva sent a copy of this GPs letter to us. I considered this letter as well as all of the 
information previously  provided by both Mr C and Aviva and made a provisional  decision 
about the complaint in February 2019.  In it I said;
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs policy say;
If, after you have booked  your trip but before paying any final balance due for your
trip, you, or anyone  upon  whose good health your trip depends, is referred to a
Consultant/Specialist or out-patient clinic for tests or investigations, attends A&E or is
admitted to hospital  you must call the Medical  Risk Assessment Helpline
immediately. We will advise you if you will be covered for claims related to this
condition.
I think this term is clearly  set out in Mr Cs policy. This is a common term found in most, if
not all, travel insurance policies on the market.
So the question  I need to consider is whether I think Mr C had been  referred  for tests or
investigations at the time the final balance was paid on 20 May 2016.
The medical certificate completed by Mr Cs GP says the date Mr C first consulted a doctor
about the condition claimed for was 3 February 2016 and that he was under review, having
tests or investigations for rib pain at the time the balance was paid on 20 May 2016.
The letter from Mr Cs GP dated 4 October 2018  confirms Mr C had an x-ray on 29 February
2016, was seen for a review on 13 April 2016 and then had a further x-ray. The letter says 
the results of this x-ray came back on 9 May 2016 and Mr C was referred to orthopaedics
urgently.
I understand Mr C says 25 May 2016 should have been written  as the date he first consulted
for the condition. But neither the medical  certificate completed by his GP nor the letter dated
4 October 2018 reflect  this.
I can see the October 2018  letter  says Mr C took  out the insurance after he first presented
but certainly before he was aware that there was anything serious or untoward going  on. I
dont doubt Mr C didnt  expect to have to cancel his accommodation when he paid the
balance due. But Mr Cs policy clearly sets out that Aviva  wants to know  about referrals for
tests or investigations. This is because, from an insurers perspective, tests or investigations
are likely to increase the chance of a claim occurring  regardless of whether or not the
policyholder thinks  these tests are of serious concern.
Based on the medical evidence, Im satisfied  Mr C had been referred for tests or
investigations at the time the balance  of the accommodation was paid for on 20 May 2016. I
dont think its relevant whether or not Mr C had written confirmation  of any referral  at that
point in time. I think it wouldve been  clear to Mr C that he was having tests  or investigations
(i.e. x-rays) related to his health. And I think  it wouldve been  reasonable for him to have
contacted Aviva to make  it aware  he was under  investigation for what  was, at that time, an
undiagnosed condition.
If Mr C had contacted Aviva it would have  had the opportunity  to explain he wouldnt be
Ref: DRN26325023covered for any claim arising from that undiagnosed condition going  forward - before Mr C
paid for the balance  of the accommodation.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C and Im sorry to hear he has been  unwell. But Aviva has offered
to pay for the cost of the deposit, less the policy excess  and I think  this is all it needs to do. I
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Aviva to pay for the remainder of Mr Cs
claim in the circumstances.
Turning to Mr Cs complaint about the length of time Aviva took to make  a decision about his
claim, Ive looked at Avivas notes to understand  what happened  from when  Mr C first
contacted Aviva in July 2016.
I can see Aviva wrote  to Mr C on 26 July 2016  asking for documentation,  which  Mr C
returned to it in September 2016.  Aviva contacted both Mr C and Mr Cs doctor  in the same
month to ask for further information.
Avivas records  show  it contacted Mr Cs GP again a number of times in October 2016 to
chase the information it had asked  for. And Aviva updated Mr C about  the situation,  as Id
have expected it to.
Mr C contacted Aviva to ask for another update in early November 2016. On the same day
Aviva chased the GP for the information  it was waiting on and also updated Mr C. I can see
Mr C emailed Aviva again at the end of November 2016 and I can understand why the delay
would have been frustrating for him. But, based on the information  Ive seen, Aviva was
chasing the information it had requested  from the GP at regular and reasonable intervals.
On 2 December  2016 Aviva  asked Mr C to contact the GP himself, as Aviva said it had
already chased  the information  request 17 times. Aviva contacted the GP again on the same
day and subsequently emailed Mr C to advise him of the next steps.
Aviva told Mr C on 13 December 2016  that it would be paying some of his claim. 
Id expect an insurer to make a decision about  a claim without any unnecessary or
unreasonable delay. But an insurer is entitled to ask for the information it reasonably needs
to assess a claim before making this decision,  such as medical  evidence  from a
policyholders GP.
There were around three months of delays  in Aviva making a decision in this case, from
September 2016 when Mr C returned  the claim form to it until December 2016. But Im
satisfied these delays  were because Aviva  was waiting on information it needed from
Mr Cs GP and I think Aviva was doing all it could  to get this information as quickly as
possible. So I dont  think Aviva unreasonably  delayed in giving Mr C a response  to his claim.
Turning to the other points Mr C has raised,  I understand  he told Aviva  in February 2018 that
his GP had filled in a date on the initial claim form incorrectly. But its up to a policyholder  to
provide the information necessary to support their claim  so the responsibility  for obtaining
any clarification from the GP lay with Mr C and not with Aviva.  Avivas  call notes indicate it
told Mr C this in a telephone call in February  2018. Aviva addressed this point in writing  in its
letter of June 2018.
It may have been helpful if Aviva had set this out in writing to Mr C sooner. However, Aviva
had already told Mr C of his right to bring  his complaint to this service  on a number of
Ref: DRN26325024occasions by this point, as the regulator  requires  it to do.
Mr C has also asked whether his email correspondence with Aviva in September 2018 has
been considered.  Ive looked at this email chain and I can understand why Mr C would have
been frustrated  when Aviva refused to engage  in further communication  with him. But Aviva
had told Mr C about his right to bring a complaint to this service  as early as December 2016
and by September 2018 Aviva was aware  our investigator was looking into Mr Cs complaint.
So I dont  think Aviva was unreasonable by referring Mr C back to this service rather  than
communicating directly  with him about  issues hed already asked us to look into.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Aviva responded to my provisional  decision  and said it had nothing to add. Mr C 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional  decision but didnt provide any further  comments  by 
the deadline Id set. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Aviva nor Mr C have provided  any new information or comments, I see no reason 
to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2632502