K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about the advice she received  to transfer her final salary  pension to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). That advice was given by Easy Financial Planning  
(UK) LLP. Easy Financial Planning was an appointed representative  of WSW  Financial 
Services Ltd (WSW).
Mrs S has also complained about  the way Choices  - Your Mortgage Solutions  Limited  
advised her to invest her funds in the SIPP.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 15 November 2018. I set out the background as follows:
Mr and Mrs S attended a seminar about overseas  investments.  An unregulated business 
then introduced them to an adviser  from Choices. As the adviser from Choices was not 
authorised to advise  on pension  transfers  a referral  was made  to Easy  Financial Planning.
In an email dated 23 July 2011 the adviser at Choices explained the process to the 
unauthorised business.  As the adviser was not authorised for pension transfer business 
another adviser would  need  to be involved.  It was likely that they would say not to transfer, 
but the transfer should go ahead anyway.
The adviser at Choices later said that another independent financial adviser (IFA) had been  
unable to continue  with the process. That was because he was a member of a network.  
They wouldnt allow  the transfer to go ahead.
A document  referred  to as a fact find was completed by the adviser at Choices. This 
recorded the clients personal and financial details. Easy Financial Planning then provided  
advice about the transfer of pension benefits  to a SIPP.
The details recorded were that Mrs S:
Had final salary pension benefits. The transfer  value was enhanced by her former  
employer.
Wanted to retire at age 65 with pension  income of half of her salary.
Completed and signed  an attitude to risk questionnaire.  This concluded  that she was 
prepared to accept  moderate risk.
Wanted to invest in products  offered  by an individual  from an unregulated firm. She 
understood that her final salary pension offered guarantees.  But she was aware  that 
they were providing enhancements to move away. She did not want  to miss out on 
the opportunity.  And she believed the variety of products  in the new portfolio would 
offer a better return.
Easy Financial Planning sent a report to Mrs S. The growth rate required to match the 
benefits was 5.27% a year net of all fees and charges.  The guarantees offered by the 
scheme would  be lost on transfer.  The advice  was not to transfer  her final salary  pension 
benefits.
Ref: DRN21049752The report  also explained  Mrs S wanted  to invest in overseas forestry using a SIPP. Mrs S 
had given answers on a risk profiling questionnaire. These indicated she had an attitude to 
risk of 5/10. This was classed as moderate. The advice  was not to invest in offshore assets. 
Placing all of her pension  fund into higher  risk overseas assets  did not meet  her attitude to 
risk. The advice was not to proceed.
The report  discussed  risk and the concept of putting  all of your eggs in one basket. This 
was a high-risk strategy.
Easy Financial Planning said that it was not asked to provide an opinion  on the proposed 
investment schemes.  And it accepted no liability on their use. It went  on to suggest that it 
would be prudent  to undertake research  before  considering  investment. It also gave general 
advice that Mrs S should carry  out her own due diligence.  And that she shouldnt rely solely 
on the representations of others about  the financial returns.
Mrs S then signed a letter  explaining  that she wanted to proceed with the transfer against 
the advice from Easy  Financial Planning. The letter  said that Mrs S wanted to proceed  with 
the investments  to balance her portfolio.
Easy Financial Planning then sent another report; it was titled transfer  options  report  
addendum. This again advised  against making  the transfer. It also explained  that the 
investments were ultra-speculative. The aim of the report  was to summarise  Mrs Ss current  
situation and objectives; and then to facilitate the transfer to a named SIPP  provider.
Easy Financial Planning then arranged for the transfer to be made and the SIPP to be set 
up. In an email dated 16 December 2011 it said it was not involved in the purchase of any of 
the assets. However from experience it had found it easier from an administration  point  of 
view to handle all the documents  and present them  together.
The investments went  ahead within the SIPP. There have been problems with the 
investments which  cannot be sold. Mrs S now has a new adviser  and complained to both 
Choices and Easy Financial Planning.  Neither  of those businesses upheld  the complaints.
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint.  He thought  that the complaint should 
succeed. In summary,  he concluded that:
The arrangement  of the SIPP,  the transfer  of pensions and the investment into higher 
risk holdings  were all unsuitable for Mrs S.
Those actions all either caused  or aggravated losses that have been suffered by 
Mrs S.
Both Choices and Easy Financial Planning should each be liable for half of the total 
losses.
WSW didnt agree  with the adjudicator.  It provided  a number of documents to support its 
position and has said that:
The complaint  should be against  Easy Financial Planning rather  than WSW.
The client manipulated its process to obtain  the outcome sought.
It should be able to rely upon  the communications  it receives  from clients as well as 
the financial adviser firms that introduce cases to it.
In e-mail correspondence with both Choices and the unregulated business Mrs S 
acknowledged she had received its suitability  report and would be ignoring the 
Ref: DRN21049753advice. Although Mrs S might not have  drafted  the insistent client letter it is apparent 
her mind  had already  been made up.
It had taken advice  from the regulator,  in a recorded phone conversation,  on the 
position of clients  who wish to transfer their pensions  on an insistent client  basis.
The regulator had confirmed that:
-a regulated firm was responsible for the advice it gives;
-clients are not obliged to follow the advice given by an adviser;
-if a client is insistent  a firm can arrange  the investment  without liability;
-if the product  was unregulated there could be no regulatory involvement in respect  of 
the investment.
Principle 9, COBS  2.1.1R and COBS 9.2 from the regulators handbook arent 
relevant; it made no recommendations  to invest in a product, but was actively 
advising against investing. Alternatively, if the principle and rules  are relevant then it 
met their requirements.
It should not be held liable for Mrs S investing  either in the SIPP or in products  which  
it explicitly advised against investing  in.
The adjudication uses FCA best practice  that was published  in 2014 to rule upon 
business written in 2011.
It should be able to rely on the disclaimer within the report  to pass  responsibility for 
the losses to the clients.
It received no payment for the investments after the SIPP  was established.
We should investigate  the potential unauthorised payment made to Mrs S. E-mail 
correspondence suggests that Mr S was put on a commission deal as he knew  a lot 
of potential clients. This indicates  that Mr and Mrs S were working with the 
unregulated business.  They were not the innocent parties in this transaction. The 
transfer would have taken place with or without its involvement.
An e-mail dated 21 July 2011 indicates  that deposits of £1,000  for the Harlequin  
investments had already been  paid.  This shows that Mr and Mrs S had already 
decided to invest.
The appropriateness test form completed  by Mr and Mrs S shows  that they have not 
received advice about the investments in question. Those forms were dated after the 
presentation of its 'Addendum  Report'  and show that the clients  were not relying  
upon its advice  and were acting alone.
The SIPP provider should  have  some liability.
It had informed Mrs S in no uncertain  terms that the transfer of monies from the final 
salary pension scheme to the SIPP should  not be made. And that the funds to be 
transferred into the SIPP should not be used to make unregulated investments.
It was provided with a letter stating that the transfers should go ahead;  it had no 
involvement in the production of that letter. It did not know that the wording had been 
provided by Choices.
Following receipt of the insistent client letter, it wrote to Mrs S again advising her not 
to go ahead with the transfer. The transfer  was then completed on an execution only 
basis. A document confirming that Mrs S was to be treated as an execution only 
client was provided.
Easy Financial Planning acts as a bureau  for other IFA firms. Its business model is to 
offer the clients of its IFA contacts advice without the payment of an up-front fee. It 
only receives a payment  when  the transfer is completed.
One of its primary functions  was to complete pension  transfers  on behalf of other 
IFAs who did not have  the requisite permissions.
Ref: DRN21049754It seems  highly likely that but for its actions any number of other  firms would have 
completed the transaction on an execution only basis or otherwise.
Mrs S received monies  from the unregulated business and the final salary scheme 
had an enhanced transfer value.  These  are both reasons for the transfer.
Since the original  complaint was made Choices has been dissolved. Following this, Mrs S 
asked the FSCS to consider her complaint about Choices. The FSCS  investigated  that 
complaint. It concluded that any civil liability for the transfers complained about resided with 
WSW alone and not with Choices.
I set out my findings  in my provisional  decision. In summary, I explained the relevant rules 
that applied in this case. I agreed that Easy Financial Planning had given suitable  advice to 
Mrs S. However I questioned whether Easy  Financial Planning should have processed the 
transfer against its own advice. The role of Choices was important in the transfer. 
Easy Financial Planning made a telephone  call to the regulator to discuss accepting this type 
of business. The conclusion of that call was that there was a moral  dilemma.  But I concluded  
this was covered  by the clients best interests rule.
Mrs S signed a letter to say that she wanted to go ahead  with the investments having been 
advised not to do so. It referred to investing  in a number of different unregulated investments 
to balance her portfolio.  I concluded that this was not credible. The investments were high 
risk and speculative.
Easy Financial Planning told us that it received 33 enquiries from clients who wanted  to 
invest in Harlequin  and other investments.  It advised 30 of these clients; all of whom were 
advised not to transfer the pensions. Of these 18 insisted  on acting against the advice. I 
thought that was a high number of cases.
Easy Financial Planning was only paid if the transfer  went  ahead.  This was a conflict of 
interest. It was an incentive for Easy Financial Planning to make  the transfer. 
I concluded that taking all of these factors together Easy  Financial Planning should not have 
arranged the transfer.
WSW did not agree. Its representative replied and in summary said:
WSW  was required to complete the transfer by COBS  11.2.19.  This was a rule at the 
time and not just guidance. Since the advice was given  in 2011 new rules have been 
introduced to set out what firms should  do when communicating with an insistent 
client. WSW  met the standards of those rules  before they had been introduced.
The reference to the 1994 Pensions  review guidance  was not relevant.
There was nothing  at the time which required WSW to enquire as to the real reason 
for the transfer.  WSW  was given a reason which was to diversify  the portfolio. The 
reason was likely  to be that Mrs S expected to receive substantial returns from the 
investment. In addition, the very large  payment had been overlooked.
The fact WSW would only be paid if the transfer went  ahead  has no bearing on the 
transfer. WSW was allowed to be paid in this way.
The role of Choices  in the transfer was instrumental and a complaint should be made  
against Choices.
Ref: DRN21049755There have been other cases against WSW  that had similar facts.  The adjudicators 
did not uphold  the complaints. If it is appropriate  to reach different conclusions  I 
should explain why.
Although this service  does not have to consider  causation it is relevant and should be 
taken into account. If WSW  had not been involved this transaction would have 
completed anyway.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion that I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
I will now deal with the points raised by WSWs  representative in response to my provisional  
decision.
Was WSW  required  to execute  the transfer?
The first point raised was that WSW was under an obligation to execute the order. If it did 
not then it was in breach of the rules. However,  this very point has been dealt with in a 
recent judicial review.  In that case the judge  said:
I agree with the FCAs submission that COBS 11.2 is a section of the Handbook concerned 
with the method of execution of client orders, and was designed  to leave a high quality of 
execution. It presupposes that there is an order being executed, and refers to the factors that 
must be taken into account  when  deciding how best to execute  the order.  It has nothing  to 
do with the question of whether or not the order should be accepted in the first place.
So, in this case, WSW had to consider whether to arrange the transfer. I remain of the view 
that WSW  should  not have arranged  the transfer.
Ref: DRN21049756Did WSWs actions meet the requirements of insistent client  guidance issued  since  2011?
WSWs representatives  have quoted from some guidance issued in January 2018. Ive 
repeated this guidance below.
COBS 9.5A  Additional  guidance for firms with insistent clients
Purpose
The guidance in this section is relevant where a client of a firm becomes an insistent  client. 
The purpose of the guidance is to set out how a firm, when dealing with an insistent client , 
can comply with its obligations under: 
(1) the Principles  (see PRIN 2);
(2) the clients best interests  rule (see COBS  2.1.1R); 
(3) the fair, clear and not misleading rule (see COBS  4.2.1R); 
(4) the rules on suitability in this chapter  (COBS 9 (Suitability (including basic  advice)); 
and
(5) the rules on record-keeping (see COBS 9.5 (Record keeping and retention periods 
for suitability  reports) and SYSC 9 (General rules on record-keeping)).
Who is an insistent  client?
In this section, a client should be considered an insistent client  where:
(1) the firm has given  the client a personal  recommendation;
(2) the client decides to enter into a transaction which  is different  from that 
recommended by the firm in the personal  recommendation ; and
(3) the client wishes the firm to facilitate that transaction.
Information to be communicated  to an insistent client
(1) Where a firm proceeds to execute a transaction for an insistent client which is not in 
accordance with the personal recommendation given by the firm, the firm should 
communicate to the insistent  client, in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading, and 
having regard  to the information needs of the insistent client  so that the client is able to 
understand, the information set out in (2).
(2) The information which the firm should communicate to the insistent client  is:
(a) that the firm has not recommended the transaction and that it will not be in 
accordance with the firms  personal  recommendation; 
(b) the reasons  why the transaction will not be in accordance  with the firms  
personal recommendation;
(c) the risks of the transaction  proposed  by the insistent client; and
(d) the reasons  why the firm did not recommend that transaction to the client.
Acknowledgement from the insistent client
(1) The firm should obtain from the insistent client an acknowledgement that:
(i) the transaction  is not in accordance with the firms personal  recommendation ; 
and
(ii) the transaction  is being carried out at the request of the client .
(2) Where possible, the acknowledgment should  be in the clients  own words.
Ref: DRN21049757I have carefully considered this guidance  issued by the regulator.  On the face of it, WSW  
appears to have followed the steps set out in this guidance. However,  I have to take into 
account all of the evidence. It is clear  to me that WSW was approached to arrange these 
transfers after another IFA had not been  able to do so. I dont know  the reason for that. But, I 
think its likely that the compliance department would not allow  the transfer. I think  that is an 
example of industry good practice.
An unregulated introducer was involved in selling unregulated investments. These were 
clearly unsuitable  for most retail investors.
WSW clearly understood that this was a risky transaction. That appears to be the reason  
why a telephone call was made to the regulator.  But I dont think the employee at the 
regulator was given the full set of facts.  And I dont think the guidance  issued since  then can 
cover every set of circumstances. One factor that I think is important is the number of 
insistent clients dealt  with by WSW. I would expect the number of clients  who act against 
advice given by a regulated adviser to be very small. This was the point made in the 1994 
pensions review guidance. In my view, that is as relevant now as it was over 20 years  ago.
The wording  of the letter signed  by Mrs S said: I wish to proceed  with the investments in 
Harlequin, Bamboo, Agar Wood and Teak in order to balance  my portfolio . This does  not 
appear to be Mrs Ss own words. It certainly  strikes me that someone else has written this 
for Mrs S to sign.  Given that the investments to be made  were  unregulated and speculative 
the explanation does  not make sense.  It is not credible and should have been  investigated  
by WSW. I remain of the view that WSW should  not have processed the transfer of pension  
benefits or the investments.
Easy Financial Planning told us that from 2010 it received 33 enquiries  from clients who 
wanted to invest  in Harlequin or a combination of investments.  It gave advice to 30 clients; 
all of whom were advised not to transfer  their pensions. Of these 18 insisted on acting 
against the advice. That appears  to me to be a high number of cases.  
The transfer of pension benefits  took some time. It is clear that a number of transfers were 
referred to Easy  Financial Planning by Choices. Weve been told this started in 2010. By the 
time Mrs S transferred her pension, I think Easy Financial Planning  should  have  had 
concerns about  the process. 
Easy Financial Planning was only paid if the transfer  was processed. This was a conflict of 
interest. I think  it was an incentive  not to act in Mrs Ss best interests.  Although such  
payments are allowed, it is not clear how that conflict  of interest  was managed.
Causation
WSWs solicitors have  said that Mrs S would benefit from a payment from a non-regulated 
third party. They say this was about 11.5% of the amount transferred. The enhanced transfer 
value was also a reason  for the transfer. 
The enhanced transfer value gave  an uplift  of about 0.47%. It was a factor  in the decision to 
transfer. Mr and Mrs S were chasing  for the transfer  to be made when delays occurred. 
There was some urgency  about transferring the pension. It is clear that both Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to transfer  before  that enhancement  was lost. I have therefore considered whether 
Mrs S would have transferred anyway.
Ref: DRN21049758There was a lack of clarity over the precise sums paid. So, we asked for full bank statements 
from Mr and Mrs S for a six month period. 
I reviewed the payments  received and identified those that were most likely to have been 
received as a result  of investments made  using  the pension funds. The only other deposits 
were from Mr and Mrs Ss employers, or I am satisfied are unrelated to any investments. 
Although I cannot  be certain, the details  provided by Mr and Mrs S appear to be reasonable. 
Most of the payments  appear to relate to details of investments made. 
The payments received  by Mr and Mrs S could have  influenced their decision to transfer  
their pension benefits. I accept that it is possible that they would have transferred anyway. 
But, it is my view that the amounts involved were not large enough to cause them  to sacrifice 
their pension benefits, if WSW had treated them fairly. The payments received were for 
about 10% of the amounts transferred. I havent  seen evidence  that Mr and Mrs S urgently 
needed that money. So at the moment I still think that they wouldnt have transferred for the 
reasons given in my provisional decisions.
The payment that Mrs S received  from the unregulated introducer was paid from the 
investments made. Those funds were  received  from Mrs Ss pension. I think its a 
reasonable conclusion that the unregulated introducer received more  than 10% of the 
investment. That in itself means that the investment would  need  to perform very well to 
simply offset the sales costs.
Mrs S was putting a large part of her pension  provision at risk. This was in return  for a 
payment of about  10% of the value. In my view WSW should  not have processed the 
transfer. 
WSW told us it decided to stop taking business on an insistent client  basis.  This was after 
the regulator issued an alert about transferring monies to SIPPs to invest in unregulated 
products. It took the view this was a change  to the position outlined to it in August 2011. I 
think this is the approach  that should have been  taken before Mrs S transferred her pension. 
Its also the approach  taken by a different firm of advisers. In my view,  no competent firm of 
advisers ought to have  arranged the transfer knowing the background set out in this 
decision.
I remain of the view that if WSW had acted in Mrs Ss best interests that it would not have 
processed the transfer. WSW therefore  caused the loss suffered by Mrs S.
Duty of consistency
WSWs solicitors referred to other cases investigated by this service. They  say those cases  
have similar facts and so should reach  similar  outcomes. I have considered those  cases. 
They were  resolved at the first stage of our process after an adjudicator gave an initial view. 
There are some differing  facts in the cases.  One of the important things is that I am aware 
that there  were a large  number of similar cases.  I think its likely all of these cases were  
investigated without  that knowledge. It is therefore  possible that those cases could  have 
been decided  differently  by an ombudsman. In any event, I am not bound by previous  
decisions that have  been made.
Ref: DRN21049759What concerns me the most is the reasons that Mrs S gave for ignoring the advice. It should 
have been clear that investing in the funds Mrs S selected did not balance her portfolio. So 
either the letter had been written by someone else or she didnt understand the investments. 
In my view, this should have been  investigated before completing the transfer. Easy  
Financial Planning was only paid if the transfer  completed. This is a conflict  of interests  and I 
cannot see how that was managed. This is a factor in my decision making.
Easy Financial Planning was aware that the transfer  was unsuitable  for Mrs S. And that the 
transfer was likely to leave Mrs S significantly worse  off in retirement. In my view,  Easy  
Financial Planning should have known that the adviser at Choices or the unregulated firm 
selling the investments was instrumental  in the decision being made by Mrs S. I think  it 
should have refused to process  the transfer. It clearly wasnt  in the clients  best interests. I 
consider Easy Financial Planning to be responsible for any losses  Mrs S has suffered.
I think that the combination of the wording of the insistent client  letter  and the number of 
insistent clients should have alerted Easy Financial Planning to potential problems. These 
factors should have  indicated that it was unlikely Mrs S had decided herself to ignore the 
advice not to transfer.
It is possible that Choices  could have some liability for the losses  suffered. That issue has 
been dealt with by the FSCS. It is also possible that other parties  could have some  liability. 
But in my view, the investments could not have been made  if WSW had treated Mrs S fairly. 
If WSW wishes  to take action against  any other party to recover  some of the losses it may 
ask Mrs S to co-operate;  that is if Mrs S is compensated  in full.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs S as close to the position she would  now be in if she had been  given 
suitable advice.  I think that she would have  kept her final salary  benefits. 
what did WSW do to contribute to Mrs Ss loss?
Easy Financial Planning was paid commission of 3% for setting up the SIPP.  It split this 
equally with Choices. Easy Financial  Planning  was also aware that an unregulated business  
was involved.  It also dealt with all of the administration for setting up the SIPP and the 
investments. 
WSW was required to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma 
referred to when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW  had acted in the best interests of its client, 
it should have  refused  to process  the transfer.
The transactions would not have been made but for the involvement of WSW.  Ultimately,  I 
regard WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did Easy Financial Plannings actions cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP would be invested in unregulated 
investments. WSW realised that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed  Mrs Ss 
pension fund to significant risk.
Ref: DRN210497510the role of Choices
Choices was clearly  involved in the advice  to invest the pension  funds. But, the transfer 
could not have been made unless WSW was involved. 
the role of the unregulated firm selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Mrs S by an unregulated firm. Any complaint about  that firm cannot 
be dealt with by this service. One of the purposes of regulation was to provide consumer 
protection. I think it is appropriate  that if losses are suffered  the consumer should be 
compensated for the actions of the regulated firm. Being a regulated  adviser comes with 
responsibilities. If WSW wants to take an assignment of any rights  Mrs S may be able to give 
against any third parties it may do so; if compensation is paid in full.
the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP provider could have  prevented the investments being made. But, 
I think the primary reason  for the loss was the actions  of regulated firms  giving advice to 
Mrs S. Again  if WSW wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against  the SIPP 
provider in may do so; if compensation  is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin  and those involved with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated with 
Harlequin. WSW could  argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably 
be held responsible for the loss. However, it does not necessarily follow that it would not be 
fair or reasonable  to conclude that WSW is responsible for Mrs Ss loss. 
The outcome of any proceedings that may arise  is not yet known and may be some  way off. 
I am not in a position to make any judgment  about  the conduct  of those involved in the 
management of Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair 
compensation for Mrs S. And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties  are 
responsible, either wholly or in part, for Mrs Ss loss. I have considered that very carefully,  
along with more general issues of causation and foreseeability.  
How a fund is managed is an inherent  and foreseeable  risk. But where there  may have  been  
fraud in connection  with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been  a break 
in the chain of causation.  This break might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses 
suffered by a consumer  flow from the unsuitable  advice.
In my view, there is no doubt that Mrs S would not have made the investment if WSW  had 
taken the appropriate action. There is enough  evidence here for me to conclude  that WSW  
was not acting in its clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should 
compensate Mrs S for the loss of her pension fund.  That includes the investment loss that 
could not have happened, but for its advice.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They  were 
unusual holdings, operating in a very specific way and without a track  record. They were 
complex investments  that were not easy to understand. They could suffer  large losses, the 
nature of which would be difficult to predict or estimate at the outset.
Ref: DRN210497511I am satisfied that Mrs S would not have invested,  but for the actions of WSW. In my view, it 
is fair to assess compensation on our usual basis  aiming to put Mrs S in the position  she 
would have been in but for the unsuitable advice - despite any arguments  around any fraud 
breaking the chain  of causation.
what should  WSW do?
My aim is to put Mrs S in the position  she would  now be in if she had received  suitable 
advice. I think that she would have: a.) kept her existing  pension; b.) wouldnt have invested 
in Harlequin or the other investments; and c.) as a result wouldnt have opened the SIPP  
(and now be subject  to ongoing SIPP fees). In setting out how to calculate fair compensation 
my objective  is to address these three issues. That is what  Im trying  to achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making  an award. While I 
understand Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment  from Mrs S that is now 
unlikely. 
All the variables are unknown and each may have an impact on the extent of any award I 
may make. The facts  suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed  and unlikely  
that the contract and any future payments  would  be enforceable.  While its complicated to 
put Mrs S back in the position she would have  been in if WSW had acted in her interests, I 
think its fair that Mrs S is compensated now. I dont think I should wait and determine each 
and every possibility  before  making an award. What is set out below  is a fair way of 
achieving this. 
WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value  of Mrs Ss pension, if she 
had not transferred, with the current value  of her SIPP.  In summary:
1.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Mrs Ss SIPP on the date of calculation,  
including any outstanding charges. 
3.Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Ss share in the Harlequin Property 
investment. 
In addition, WSW should:
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mrs S to the SIPP.  
5.Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have explained  how WSW should carry this out in further detail below.
Ref: DRN2104975121.For the final salary scheme;  review  this transfer  in line with the 
methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  carried out as at the date of my final decision; using the most recent 
financial assumptions published (at the date of this decision). This should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly following receipt of notification  of Mrs Ss 
acceptance of the decision. 
WSW may wish to contact  the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
There should also be a notional deduction  allowed for in the calculation. This deduction is for 
any monies that were  paid to Mrs S for the transfer and investments this complaint concerns. 
This should include any payments Mrs S might  have received from the unregulated business 
and also the repayment of the £1,000 Harlequin  deposit. We have explained  to the parties 
those payments to be allowed for and when they were paid to Mrs S. 
If the review  calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum.  Had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore  the 
compensation may be reduced to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise 
have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ss marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
Mrs S is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance should 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
as Mrs S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance should 
be applied  to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until 
the date of payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
2.Obtain the actual transfer value of Mrs Ss SIPP on the date of calculation,  
including any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed  by the SIPP provider. 
Ref: DRN2104975133.Pay a commercial value to buy Mrs Ss Harlequin Property investment. 
The SIPP only exists because of the investment in Harlequin. In order  for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented,  the Harlequin investment needs  to be 
removed from the SIPP.  I understand this can be done. However,  I understand that is now 
unlikely.
The valuation of the Harlequin  investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation, WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs and take ownership of the 
investment. 
If WSW is unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes  of 
calculating compensation (including  in step 1 above).
4.Pay five years worth of future fees owed by Mrs S to the SIPP.
Had WSW  acted in Mrs Ss best interests  I dont think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that 
Mrs S continues to pay the annual  SIPP  fees if it cant be closed.  To provide certainty  to all 
parties, I think  its fair that WSW  pay Mrs S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties  to arrange  for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number 
of ways they may want to seek to achieve  that. It will also provide Mrs S with some 
confidence that she will not be subject to further fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Mrs S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive  from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking 
should allow  for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount she may receive  from the 
investment. WSW will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks 
Mrs S to provide an undertaking,  payment  of the compensation awarded may be dependent 
upon provision  of that undertaking. 
5.Pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs S has been caused some distress by the loss of her pension benefits. I think  that a 
payment of £250  is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that WSW pays  the 
balance.
I uphold the complaint and direct WSW Financial Services  Ltd to pay fair compensation as 
set out above.  
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the 
£150,000 plus interest I recommend that WSW  pays Mrs S the balance plus simple interest 
at a rate of 8% gross a year.
Ref: DRN210497514Its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance  of 
the compensation owing  to her after the money  award has been paid. Mrs S may want  to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2104975