K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs P says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint.  Ill explain why.
Both parties  agree that the policy  was taken out by post and, based  on what Ive seen, I think 
thats likely  to be the case. As Capital One had no interaction with Mrs P when she made her 
choice about taking the PPI I think its likely  this sale was completed on a non-advised basis. 
This meant that Capital  One didnt have  to check that the policy  was right for Mrs P. But it did 
have to make sure that it gave Mrs P enough  information so that she could decide for herself 
if the policy was right for her circumstances.
Mrs P initially made us aware of an episode of illness  she suffered from 13 years  before the 
sale which led to her being hospitalised.  When our adjudicator asked for more information 
about this incident, Mrs P told us that this episode was as a result  of an ongoing condition  
that she had suffered from for many  years. She said that, following this episode in 1987,  she 
had further flare ups of the condition in 1991,  1996, and twice in 1999 and she had to take 
time off work on each  occasion. Looking at the policy terms I dont think  Mrs P would have 
been able to claim for anything which was to do with this pre-existing medical condition  as 
its likely  it would have been excluded. I think this would have mattered to Mrs P, especially 
when considering the fact that she had suffered  frequent recurrences of the condition  in the 
years leading up to the sale.
I havent seen anything  from Capital  One which shows that this exclusion was made clear to 
her. And I dont think Mrs P would have bought the policy if Capital One had made this 
particular exclusion clear  to her and had given her enough information  about it. As a result I 
dont think Mrs P would  have thought that the policy gave her value for money.  So I think  she 
has lost out as a result  of what Capital One did wrong.
what the business  should do to put things right
Capital One should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Capital One should find out how much  Mrs P would have owed when she closed  her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN25655092Capital One should then refund the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Capital One made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Capital One can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Capital One should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Mrs P would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Capital  One works out what Mrs P would  have owed  each month without PPI 
 Mrs P paid more than enough  to clear her balance,  Capital  One should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra Mrs P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Mrs P wouldve owed Capital One something on her credit  card.  The interest  
rate should be 8% a year. 
D.Capital One should tell Mrs P what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Capital One to take off tax from this interest. Capital  One 
must give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint.
Capital One (Europe) plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2565509