K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Paragon Bank  Plc requires them  to have just one nominated 
bank account  linked  to all of their savings accounts.
background
Mr and Mrs C hold three savings accounts with Paragon. They  each hold one in their sole 
name and the third account is in their joint names. When opening a savings  account,  
Paragon require their customers to specify a nominated bank account from or to which  they 
will transfer money to or from the savings account.
In Paragons terms and conditions, Nominated  Bank Account is defined as the UK Current 
account in your name(s)  which you gave  details of during your application.  This is the 
account you must make payments to and from, except where transfers to other Paragon 
accounts are allowed . The other relevant  clauses  of the terms and conditions are set out 
below.
Clause 1.6: To operate your Account youll need  to link it to a Nominated  Bank  Account. 
Youll need to give us the details of your Nominated Bank  Account  when  you apply for your 
savings Account. It must  be a UK current account in your full name, either  sole of joint holder 
and have the ability to make  and receive  electronic payments.  You will use this Account to 
transfer money to and from your Account and can only link your Account  to one Nominated 
Bank Account with us. You many change your Nominated  Bank Account by logging into your 
account, going to the change my details section and following the instructions online.
Clause 3.6: For a Joint Account, there can only be one Nominated Bank  Account. This 
account can be either a sole account in the name  of one of the Joint Account Holders, or a 
Joint Account in the names of both account holders. However, if the Nominated  Bank  
Account is a sole account, only the holder of the account can make, change, or cancel any 
payment instructions between the joint savings  account and the Nominated Bank Account.
Mr and Mrs C have chosen  two different Nominated Bank Accounts to be linked  to their 
Paragon savings accounts. But Paragon say they must use the same Nominated  Bank  
Account for all of their savings accounts. 
Mr C complained to Paragon about  this as he would prefer to nominate  different accounts. 
And he couldnt see where  Paragon had set out the requirement for there to be just one 
Nominated Bank Account across all Paragon accounts. 
Paragon didnt uphold  the complaint. They said they have followed their procedures correctly 
and referred to sections  1.6 and 3.6 of the terms and conditions.  They  also referred  to their 
responsibilities under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Paragon say they cant merge Mr and Mrs Cs account profile because they have nominated  
two different accounts.  They  have given Mr and Mrs C two options for moving forward: 
register a joint Nominated Bank  Account for all their Paragon accounts,  or remove  one 
account holder  from the joint Paragon account.  They  explained that it wouldnt be possible to 
have a nominated  account in one of Mr or Mrs Cs sole names  across  their whole account 
profile, because they each hold sole accounts  with Paragon as well as a joint account.
Ref: DRN25217032Paragon told Mr and Mrs C that one of their accounts might have to be closed if the 
Nominated Bank Account isnt updated in one of these ways. As things stand, Paragon say 
the accounts dont comply  with their policy. Mr and Mrs C werent  happy  with that response 
and brought their complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into it and didnt think Paragon had done anything  wrong. He didnt 
think the terms and conditions expressly  deal with this point. But he thought  Paragons  policy  
of having one Nominated Bank Account was reasonable. So he didnt ask them to do 
anything. Mr C disagreed.  He said he didnt  think Paragon could imply something into their 
terms and conditions which suited  them  but not him. So he asked an ombudsman  to review  
the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering whats  fair and 
reasonable, Im required to take into account  the relevant law and regulations,  regulators 
rules, guidance  and standards, codes of practice  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to 
be good industry practice.
Paragon rely on clauses 1.6 and 3.6 of the terms and conditions  to support their position that 
Mr and Mrs C must  use just one Nominated  Bank Account across all of their Paragon  
savings accounts.  They also say this is their policy for customers who have multiple Paragon 
accounts.
As to the terms and conditions, I dont think they do explicitly  cover this situation.  Whilst both 
the relevant clauses do refer to there being only one Nominated Bank Account, the 
situation here is different. 
Clause 1.6 says that the customer can only link their Account  (in the singular,  and here 
meaning your  savings  account with us) to one Nominated Bank Account with us. I think 
its reasonable to interpret  this as meaning that only one external account,  as opposed to 
more than one, can be registered with Paragon  as the Nominated  Bank  Account for that 
savings account.  So if, for example, a customer had two different external accounts which 
they might  like to pay into or out of, they would have to choose just one of those and register 
it as the Nominated  Bank Account.
Section 3 of the terms and conditions is about joint accounts. Clause 3.6 says that For a 
Joint Account, there can only be one Nominated Bank Account. In this context, I take this to 
mean that each of the joint account holders  cannot  choose their own Nominated Bank 
Account; they may only choose one between them.
So the references to having just one Nominated  Bank Account deal with specific  scenarios. 
But neither  clause refers to a situation where  a customer holds multiple accounts with 
Paragon. The wording of these clauses  doesnt  cover it. And I havent  seen anything 
elsewhere in the terms and conditions which deals with this scenario. So the terms and 
conditions dont help much here. They  dont  say what the situation  is about Nominated Bank 
Accounts where  the customer has multiple  savings  accounts.
 
So I need to look at what other  information  is available on this point. Specifically, I need to 
consider what Paragon have said about  their general approach for customers  with multiple 
accounts. Its for Paragon  as a business to decide  how they will manage customer  accounts  
Ref: DRN25217033so as to meet their obligations as a bank. Its not part of the role of this service to stipulate 
what their procedures should be for doing  this. But we can look at whether they have 
followed their stated  approach consistently and treated individual  customers  fairly in a given 
situation. 
The information Ive seen shows that, over a period of time,  different members of staff at 
Paragon have consistently referred  to it being a requirement  of the bank  for there  to be just 
one Nominated  Bank Account across  all savings accounts. So Im satisfied that this is the 
banks general  approach  to this issue, which would be applied to any of their customers in 
this situation,  not just Mr and Mrs C. 
Paragons explanation for this approach is that they have a responsibility  to display a 
customers information under one profile.  Where customer  information  is the same  on 
separate accounts, they say they attempt to merge those accounts together  under one 
profile. So all accounts held by a customer will be visible under one login ID. Paragon say 
they do this so that, if a compensation payment were to be necessary under the FSCS, it 
could be made quickly.  That seems a reasonable explanation.
So Im satisfied there is a fair rationale  for Paragons approach and Im satisfied it has been 
applied fairly  in Mr and Mrs Cs case. Ultimately,  its for Mr and Mrs C to decide whether they 
want to continue with Paragon on this basis. But Paragon have suggested a way forward  
(outlined above)  which enables  all three Paragon accounts to remain open whilst conforming 
to their policy. I havent seen anything to suggest  that Mr and Mrs C would suffer any loss by 
taking things forward in one of the ways suggested by Paragon. So I think  Paragons 
approach here is fair and I wont be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2521703