K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Prestige Healthplans  Limited failed to pass  on correct  information 
about his medical  history  to his private medical insurer  with the result  that he later found  he 
was denied cover  for a particular condition.
background
Mr B held a private  medical insurance  policy  with a particular insurer.  In 2013, Mr B met with 
an adviser from Prestige and agreed to switch to a policy provided by another  insurer (which 
Ill call Z).
In 2016, Mr B sought to make a claim under  his policy for treatment of atrial fibrillation. Z 
obtained further information and noted hed received treatment for the same condition in 
2010 and 2011. It said Mr B should have disclosed this information  in response to a question 
he was asked when  he applied for the policy in 2013. It said that if he had done  so, it would 
have imposed an exclusion on the policy for the treatment of atrial  fibrillation and related 
conditions. In view of this, it said it was adding the exclusion retrospectively and therefore 
declining his claim.
Mr B complained to Prestige that he had told the adviser of his history  of atrial  fibrillation  and 
he should have  passed this information  on to Z.
Prestige failed to provide  a satisfactory  response  to his complaint. Mr B therefore referred 
his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The documentation  from the time of sale clearly shows  that Mr B told the adviser of his 
heart problem for which hed received  treatment  two years earlier.  However, when the 
adviser completed the policy  application on behalf of Mr B, he declared  that Mr B hadnt 
seen any health  professional for advice or treatment about  any heart condition in the past 
five years.
Mr B says he raised this discrepancy with the adviser at the time. He says the adviser  told 
him hed checked  with Z and had been  assured it wasnt necessary to disclose atrial 
fibrillation. Mr B said he trusted what the adviser  told him. Prestige hasnt been able to show  
that its adviser received this assurance from Z, nor has it provided any other explanation of 
why the application form question was answered incorrectly  even though its adviser knew  of 
Mr Bs heart problem. I therefore  must  reasonably conclude that the adviser was at fault.
Z has explained that if it had known of Mr Bs atrial  fibrillation it would have excluded this 
from cover, which was why it was now doing this retrospectively. Mr B says if he had known 
his condition would be excluded from cover, he wouldnt  have agreed to switch  from his 
existing insurer. I think this is correct.
Prestige has argued that Mr B hasnt been  disadvantaged by its error  because the treatment 
for his atrial fibrillation would have fallen under the exclusion for sarcoidosis in any case. 
However, Mr B has provided  evidence  that his previous insurer provided  cover for treatment 
of his condition,  even though his policy had carried the same exclusion. Im not therefore 
Ref: DRN29830392persuaded that Z could reasonably have applied the exclusion to treatment related to Mr Bs 
atrial fibrillation. 
This means  Prestiges error is responsible for Mr B losing the entitlement to private cover for 
treatment of his atrial fibrillation. Unfortunately, I cannot put Mr B back  in the position he 
would be in if the error hadnt been made.  This is because  he cant  return  to his previous 
insurer without undergoing fresh underwriting and I cant compel Z, which has done  nothing 
wrong, to offer him cover  outside the terms of his policy. The question is therefore  how much 
compensation he should receive.
I have looked  carefully  at the treatment Mr B has received on the NHS  since Z declined his 
claim in August 2016. His consultant saw him in December 2016. He noted that Mr B had 
experienced 12 hours of atrial fibrillation in October, and other brief episodes besides  this, 
but was generally  well on a day-to-day  basis. He outlined Mr Bs treatment options, which  
included doing  nothing except monitoring,  but noted  Mr Bs preference for an ablation.
Mr B had an ablation in March 2017  and his consultant reported that he had three very good 
months following  this. However, he started experiencing further symptoms which were 
interfering with his sleep and so In October 2017  his consultant agreed  the procedure  should 
be re-done. This was eventually  carried out in February 2018.
In respect of the treatment which Mr B has already received since 2016, he has suffered no 
direct financial  loss because he has received  this through the NHS. I am unaware of any 
indirect financial loss which  may have  occurred through Mr B being unable  to work on some 
days because of his condition. Furthermore, there is no reason to suppose  that the treatment 
outcomes would have  been any different had he been treated privately. In other words,  it is 
likely that the first ablation  procedure still wouldnt have been totally successful and so the 
procedure would have  needed to be re-done.
I accept that, were it not for Prestiges  error,  Mr B would  have had the convenience and 
comfort of being treated in a private  setting and would have avoided the delays he faced in 
the NHS.  But while he was keen to have the ablation procedure,  there  is no evidence that 
his consultant cardiologist considered  this to be urgent or that he was generally in pain or 
distress while  waiting  for it. 
Mr B clearly  deserves compensation for the fact he was deprived  of private treatment during 
the above period. It would have been a lot more  comfortable, convenient and quicker for him 
if hed been able to receive private treatment  through his policy. However, taking everything 
into account, in particular his health  at the time and his period of waiting, I think  an 
appropriate amount  of compensation for his loss of cover until now would be £1,000. 
This leaves  the issue of compensation  for his loss of future cover.  This is very difficult  to 
assess. I dont know  what further  treatment,  if any, Mr B might require. I dont know  the cost 
of that treatment. I dont  know  whether Mr B will choose to have his treatment privately  or 
whether, as he did after Z declined his claim in 2016, he will choose to be treated on the 
NHS. I dont  know whether his previous insurer would  have  continued to fund treatment of 
his atrial fibrillation indefinitely or whether,  at some point, it might have declared his condition 
chronic and therefore  excluded  from cover. I also have to take into consideration that when  
he switched his cover to Z in 2013, his premium  was about £500  a year cheaper than the 
premium hed been paying to his previous insurer.
Ref: DRN29830393The investigator recommended  total compensation of £17,500. This was to cover both past 
and future  loss of private cover for his condition. In respect of future  loss, the investigator 
appeared to have based the figure,  in part, on the likely cost of private treatment which  Mr B 
might require.
While I understand the investigators approach, I think it fails to take into account the other 
factors I outline above. These  are: that Mr B might  choose to have treatment on the NHS (in 
which case I would assess his loss as being  considerably less than the cost of private 
treatment); that his previous insurer might not have been prepared to provide indefinite 
cover; and that he has been potentially saving £500 each year on his premium (though,  
again, one cannot be sure of exactly much he would have paid had he carried on with his 
previous insurer). 
At the same time, I recognise  that Mr B is still only in his forties and is therefore likely at 
some point to need further treatment for his condition; that he would very probably elect  to 
have private treatment if he still had cover  for his condition under his policy; and that he 
faces ongoing worry as a result of the loss of that cover, particularly as he is the owner of his 
own business.
As I said earlier,  with so many uncertainties it is very difficult  to say exactly  how much  
compensation Prestige  should pay him now in anticipation  of future loss. However, after 
taking everything into account I think a sum of £9,000 would be fair.
This means  that, adding in the £1,000  which I think Prestige should pay for his loss until 
now, I think Prestige should pay Mr B a total of £10,000 compensation for its error which has 
caused him to lose private cover for his condition.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr B responded to say that £10,000 was less than the cost of one ablation procedure  which  
he understood currently to be in the region of £10,000-£12,000. Given that hed already 
been obliged  to undergo  this procedure twice without cover,  and would probably eventually  
require another,  he considered a total award  of £10,000 wouldnt properly compensate him 
for his loss. He furthermore said that as a director and shareholder  of his business, which he 
operated with one business partner and co-director,  a primary purpose of his policy  was to 
ensure he received timely and convenient  treatment. He said his loss of access to this 
private treatment had resulted in his business  partner being  subject to unfair additional  
burden and while he couldnt readily provide accounting evidence of the damage caused to 
his business he reasonably considered his loss to be at least  £7,500. He said if it werent for 
Prestiges error he would have been,  and would continue to be, treated privately for his 
condition. He thought it was the cost of this treatment on which any compensation award 
should be based.
Prestige didnt respond to the provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B estimates that the loss to his business  from being denied private treatment until now is 
at least £7,500. However, he says he cant provide evidence  of this without disproportionate  
Ref: DRN29830394effort and expense. In my opinion, the medical evidence  doesnt suggest that Mr Bs 
symptoms necessarily prevented him from working  while he was waiting for treatment. 
I acknowledge its possible that his work  performance was diminished but in the absence of 
evidence to show this, I cant reasonably  conclude  that his business  suffered more than it 
would have done had he undergone his treatment privately. Given that he didnt have to pay 
for his treatment, his compensation for the loss of private cover until now is therefore  only for 
non-financial matters,  such as inconvenience  and loss of comfort.  I remain  of the opinion  
that £1,000 is appropriate  compensation for this.
I acknowledge that deciding on compensation for future loss is very difficult  due to the 
uncertainties. I dont dispute  the figure quoted  by Mr B for the cost of an ablation  procedure 
but I consider  that compensation due to Mr B for future loss cant be determined by 
reference to this cost alone. This is because  I also have  to take into account the other 
factors mentioned  in my provisional decision, such as the availability  of NHS treatment and 
the potential saving which Mr B is making each year on his premium.  I sympathise with Mr B 
for being placed in the position he is in through no fault of his own.  However, after weighing 
up all the factors, I remain of the view that £9,000 is appropriate compensation for his future 
losses, both financial and non-financial.  
Overall, I therefore think Prestige should pay Mr B £10,000 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Prestige Healthplans  Limited to pay Mr B £10,000 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2983039