K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that NewDay Ltd rejected  his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1975 in respect  if faulty doors.
Background
Mr A ordered seven doors by phone. They were delivered on 19 June and in early July a 
carpenter fitted three of these while Mr A was out. On his return  he discovered that the doors 
didnt match.  He contacted the merchant which said that its terms and conditions allowed for 
the doors to be returned or replaced within 30 days, but they must be unopened and unfitted. 
Mr A contacted NewDay and it raised  a chargeback, but this was defended by the merchant. 
NewDay then considered a claim under section 75, but it concluded there  hadnt  been either 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation.  It acknowledged there had been a delay in in 
handling his claim  and offered him £65 compensation for this. Mr A brought  his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Our investigator noted the photographs  provided by Mr A showed differences  between 
doors, but she couldnt say that this was such to allow  her to uphold  the complaint. She 
noted the merchants website stated:  
we cannot 100% guarantee a colour  match for a product from an image that is displayed 
online on our website.  Displays  and graphics  hardware  can produce slight variations in 
colours displayed  and it's always difficult  to ensure colours are accurately displayed on every 
display. The appearance of finished & unfinished doors are not warranted in any event. 
Natural variations  of texture or colour of the timber  aren't considered as defects
Mr A said he had ordered by phone and wasnt aware of the merchants terms and 
conditions and they hadnt been  brought to his attention.  Our investigator noted that Mr A 
had said he had searched for the doors online and he would have had an opportunity to 
check out the merchants terms and conditions.
She also noted that when Mr A raised  the issue with the merchant it had given him the 
opportunity to return any of the doors  which hadnt  been unwrapped or hung. However, 
when our investigator raised this during the course of her enquiries it said that it couldnt take 
them back  as they had been  with Mr A for many months and may not have  been  stored  
correctly.
Mr A submitted a letter from his carpenter  which said the door were cut differently and this 
had caused the variation in colour. However, this wasnt deemed to carry the weight of an 
independent report. The photos submitted  by Mr A were noted but not considered  to be 
sufficient to demonstrate that the differences went beyond the natural  variations.
Mr A didnt agree and said he had been treated as a liar.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25795852This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied there is a debtor-creditor-supplier  link and it follows  that I need to be satisfied 
there was either a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation to upholds this complaint.
Mr A ordered the doors by phone, but it seems that at some point he looked  at the 
merchants website. This describes the doors and shows several photographs. It also sets 
out its terms and conditions. These refer to the fact that there will be natural variations in 
wood and therefore in the colour of doors.  It also tells customers  that doors can be returned 
or replaced  within 30 days as long as they havent  been unpacked or altered.
I appreciate that they were heavy and Mr A says he wasnt able to lift the doors to inspect 
them. He left his carpenter to hang  them and only discovered the discrepancies too late. I 
must admit it isnt clear  why the carpenter  continued  to hang the doors  if the difference was 
so noticeable.
Nor is it clear why Mr A didnt take the opportunity to return the unopened  doors  which he felt 
were unsuitable  when he had the chance.  
I have looked  at the catalogue and cannot say with any certainty that the doors  supplied  
were not as ordered or as described.  Mr A said to K I want  seven doors  of X type and 
these were delivered. The merchant said they may vary due to natural variations, but if you 
want to return them or have them replaced we will do so, but dont  open  the packaging or 
hang them.  That seems  to be perfectly  reasonable to me, but Mr A didnt check  or arrange 
for his carpenter to be satisfied the doors were as required. As such  I dont believe I can 
uphold his complaint.
NewDay has offered Mr A £65 compensation for delays in handling his claim and I consider 
that to be fair.
Ref: DRN25795853my final decision
NewDay Ltd has already made an offer to pay £65 to settle  the complaint and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision  is that NewDay  Ltd should  pay £65. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2579585