K821x#15complaint
Miss I says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on her
what happened
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT problems. Miss I says this meant she was 
unable to make transactions to companies, and also to people she needed to pay. 
Miss I also says she tried calling TSB customer services several times, but was on hold for 
hours and unable to speak  to anyone regarding what was going  on.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should pay £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Miss I. TSB accepted this, but Miss I didnt agree. Miss I felt that £300 
would be a fair amount instead.   
Having reviewed Miss Is comments,  our adjudicator  still felt £150 for the trouble and upset 
was a fair amount. So the case has been  passed to me to decide
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  After doing so, I think £150  compensation 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Miss I says that due to TSB Bank plcs IT problems, she had to borrow money from family 
and friends to make sure her payments were made on time. She says that she wants  fair 
compensation for the impact  this issue had on her and the embarrassment  it caused.
Its clear that this issue has caused  Miss I some inconvenience and I can also understand 
why this could  have been embarrassing for her. 
But taking everything  into account, I think the compensation the adjudicator has already  
recommended  and TSB has agreed to  is a fair amount for the level of trouble and upset 
TSB have  caused her. 
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Miss I £150 for the impact the IT issues had on her
Ref: DRN22570062my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Is complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Graham Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2257006