K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Ms B complain  that Pendragon Finance and Insurance  Services  Limited  mis-sold 
them tyre and alloy wheel  damage  cover  and minor car damage repair cover insurance 
policies and about its service.
My references to Pendragon include its agents.
background
When Ms B bought  a car in December 2016 the car dealer, as Pendragons agent, sold tyre 
and alloy wheel damage cover and minor car damage repair cover insurance policies. 
Pendragon is an insurance broker.
Mr L and Ms B complained to us that:
They didnt see the policy  documents until the day they got the car and werent  told of 
the limitations in the policies. In particular,  Pendragon told them that if a problem 
occurred they just needed to contact the car dealers local branch who would deal 
with the problem for them. However,  in September 2018  when  they took in the car for 
an MOT they told the car dealer  a screw  was in one tyre. When  they collected the car 
the car dealer told them one reason the tyre hadnt been replaced  was because  they 
had to make a formal  claim  to the insurer under the tyre policy. They werent told 
before picking up the car that the tyre hadnt  been replaced  and werent  given the 
option to authorise  the car dealer to replace  the tyre
Mr L was the insured  on the policies rather than Ms B who was the car owner
Pendragon  asked Ms B to sign the policy documents when the policies were  in Mr Ls 
name. Mr L and Ms B say the policies were invalid.
Mr L and Ms B cancelled  the policies (which cost £698 in total) and received a refund of 
£190. They  asked  for a refund of the all policy premiums (plus  relevant interest as the 
policies formed part of the car finance  agreement). They also asked for compensation for the 
distress and risks they said Pendragons actions caused Ms B.
Pendragon didnt accept the policies had been  mis-sold. It said Ms B had signed  to confirm 
the features  and significant exclusions of the policies had been explained. They had 30 days 
to cancel the policies and they could have raised the issue of Mr Ls name  being  on the 
policies. Pendragon also said the name error wouldnt have prevented  a valid claim.
Our investigator thought the policies  hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr L and Ms B disagree and want an ombudsmans decision. In summary they said:  wed 
not addressed  their concerns about Pendragons false  claim that Mr L instigated  the car 
purchase which angered  and distressed  him; we hadnt addressed their concerns about the 
car dealers health and safety duties in not repairing the tyre; they thought  under contract law 
any claim under the policies would be invalid as Mr L didnt own the car; for a contract  to be 
valid it has to be signed by the parties to the contract and they had documentary  evidence 
(which wed not asked for) that didnt happen; wed not asked them for additional information 
about their complaint.
Our investigator explained shed considered Mr L and Ms Bs relevant points to make her 
recommendation. It was for them to provide all the relevant  information  they wanted  us to 
consider. We received  no further documents or substantive information from Mr L and Ms B.
Ref: DRN27292272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The two issues now raised  with us of whether Mr L instigated Ms B to buy the car and their 
concern that the car dealer breached its health  and safety duty to them arent regulated  
matters that I can make  a decision  on. Neither issue is relevant to whether the policies  were  
mis-sold by Pendragon.
Mr L and Ms B say the car dealer didnt tell them the tyre hadnt been  replaced before they 
collected the car in September 2018.  Thats a customer service issue for the car dealership  
(not acting as Pendragon) and isnt a regulated matter that I can make a decision on. If Mr L 
and Ms Bs concern is that the car dealer as agent  for Pendragon  didnt make the claim to 
have the repair considered it didnt  need to do so. The policy  is clear  whose  responsibility  it 
is to make a claim, as Ill explain below.
I cant know what Pendragon said to Mr L and Ms B about the policies in their face to face 
discussions. But from the documents Pendragon provided Im satisfied it gave them enough  
information at the right time for them to be able to make an informed  decision  as to whether 
the policies met their needs.
The Demands and Needs Statement  shows Pendragon went  through  some  questions with 
Mr L and Ms B about  covering the costs for minor repairs and based on their answers it 
recommended the policies.  Theres  no evidence  the questions included where those repairs  
would take place and I wouldnt expect those  to be key questions  in Pendragon 
recommending which  policies were relevant.
Mr L and Ms B say they didnt know they would have to proactively make  a claim for repairs  
to be done. But both policy documents say in bold capital letters:
Important: Claims  Procedure - In order  to claim you must contact the administrator within 
30 days of damage occurring and prior to any work being carried  out. Failure to do this will 
mean that your claim will be declined.
So the policy  documents were very clear  that Mr L and Ms B needed to make a claim. All 
such insurance policies  require policyholders to make a claim and the requirement isnt 
unusual or restrictive.
Ms B had signed  a Duty of Care document confirming that the features and any significant 
exclusion of the products  had been  fully explained.  Pendragon gave Mr L and Ms B the 
policy documents when they collected the car, as is reasonable.
The policy documents are also clear  that the policyholder had 30 days  from the date they 
received the policy  to cancel and receive a full refund of premiums.  So Mr L and Ms B had a 
reasonable timescale to read the policy and ask questions to Pendragon if they were 
concerned the policy didnt  represent what Pendragon had told them at the sale.
Ref: DRN27292273The policy documents arent signed  which is usual for policy documents. Ms B signed The 
Demands and Needs Statement and Duty of Care documents,  which  arent the policy 
documents. 
Just above Ms Bs signature on those  documents the customer name was given as Mr L. 
Also both polices were in Mr Ls name. Thats an administrative  error by Pendragon. It's told 
us why from its point of view the error happened, but that shouldnt have happened.
Its very clear on both policy schedules that Mr L is the insured. Underneath his name  the 
documents say if any of the details are incorrect to contact the policy administrator and Ive 
no evidence that either  Mr L or Ms B made contact to correct  the details.  Had they done so 
I think its probable that changing the policies to Ms Bs name  would have been a simple 
administrative correction.
Mr L and Ms B didnt  make claim for the tyre repair. So we dont  know  whether the insurer 
would have declined  the claim just on the basis of the clear administrative  error of the 
policyholders name  in these circumstances. But I dont think its as clear cut as Mr L 
suggests that any claim made under  the policies would have been invalid and the policies 
useless. 
The vehicle invoice  was in Ms Bs name  and lists the extra purchases she had made  
including the two relevant policies. The evidence is that she is the cars  owner  and the 
policies are for her cars benefit.
Even if the insurer wouldnt have accepted a claim, as Pendragon  says its error wouldnt 
invalidate a claim, I think its more likely than not Pendragon would have stepped  in to act as 
the equivalent of the insurer. If not, in any complaint  to us on that matter its highly likely we 
would have said Pendragon should pay compensation equivalent to the cost of the claim so 
Mr L and Ms B wouldnt  have been disadvantaged.
Overall, the policies werent  mis-sold.  Pendragon did make an administrative error  in putting 
Mr L as the insured for the two policies but Mr L and Ms B havent made a claim that's been 
declined due to that error  so havent been  disadvantaged by that error. There's no basis  for 
me to say Pendragon should  refund the whole of the premiums  for the policies and relevant 
interest. Theres no basis for me to make an award  for compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2729227