K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2007. The policy covered Mr T only. Mr and Mrs T say Barclays Bank UK PLC 
mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs T and Barclays a provisional  decision  on 9 September 2019 to explain 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold the complaint.  An extract from my provisional decision is set 
out below:
When selling the PPI, Barclays had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs T say they werent  aware  the PPI was added to their mortgage.
Barclays has sent us copies of paperwork from Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage  application.  This 
includes a copy of a demands and needs statement which shows Barclays recommended a 
PPI policy  to cover Mr T, why it was recommended  and how much it would cost. I think this 
suggests there was some  discussion  between Mr and Mrs T and Barclays about  PPI during 
the mortgage application.
Barclays has also sent us a copy of the direct debit mandate to pay for the PPI, which was 
signed by Mr T. And a copy of the mortgage offer letter, which says Mr and Mrs T arent 
required to take out any insurance  through Barclays.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Barclays did make  it clear to Mr and Mrs T 
that they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs T chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it had to check that it was right for them. 
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, the policy couldve  paid out for significantly  longer than Mr and Mrs T have told us 
Mr T wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on 
any savings they had to make  their mortgage  repayments if Mr T wasnt earning.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that Mr T was suffering from a medical condition at the time of the 
sale. But the demands and needs statement shows  Mr and Mrs T didnt mention this when 
asked about any recent  consultations with a doctor or medical  treatment. And Mr and Mrs T 
have told us Mr T never took any time of work  as a result of the condition and it had no effect  
on his day to day life. So I think its likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  the policy if it 
had been made clear  to them that Mr Ts condition  wouldnt  be covered by it. Mr T also 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover. So I still think the policy was right for Mr and Mrs T.
As well as checking it was right for them, Barclays had to give Mr and Mrs T clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment,  and Mr and Mrs Ts 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy  offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them,  it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs T if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs T off taking it out.
Ref: DRN28726292Ive also thought about whether Barclays needs  to give Mr and Mrs T some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules  and guidance  dont apply to 
certain types of mortgage agreement  including a regulated mortgage.  As Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage, they dont apply. So Barclays  doesnt  need to refund 
any of the commission  Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
I said Id consider anything further Mr and Mrs T and Barclays  sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Neither Mr and Mrs T nor Barclays had anything further to add following my provisional 
decision. So I see no reason to change  the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision.  
And so I still dont think this complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2872629