K822xcomplaint
Mr Y complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) wont  provide  cover under a 
building warranty for damage caused  by flooding to his basement, and other issues  with his 
home.
background 
Mr Y bought a new home, and his developer provided him with a ten-year NHBC warranty. 
Mr Ys basement flooded  shortly after he moved into the property. The developer had been 
made insolvent, and Mr Y made a claim under  the warranty. 
NHBC said Mr Y could  only claim under  section  one of the warranty  (which covered  
insurance before completion), because final checks hadnt been  carried out by NHBC before 
the developer  went insolvent. However, it turned down a claim under section one as it 
thought the property had been completed  by the developer. 
Meanwhile, Mr Y arranged for the damage  caused by the flooding to be repaired by an 
NHBC registered contractor, who then found further  issues with the property that needed to 
be put right. 
Mr Y brought a complaint  to this service. He thought  NHBC had caused unnecessary  delays 
completing the final checks to the property. He was of the view that if the final checks  had 
been done before the developer became insolvent,  NHBC  would have found the property 
hadnt been completed to its requirements.  He thinks if that had happened,  the problems 
would have been put right by the developer,  therefore the flooding wouldnt have happened,  
and he wouldnt have  needed to pay another contractor to rectify the developers  errors. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 June 2020.  My provisional findings were:
Mr Y has raised  concerns about NHBC not carrying out the final checks before the 
developer went  insolvent,  and therefore  not signing off the property as complete. However,  
this isnt a regulated activity and so this service has no jurisdiction over this matter.  
Ive therefore  only considered how NHBC  has acted  when  dealing with the claim made 
under the warranty.
NHBC says that Mr Y is only able to claim under section  one of the warranty.
The warranty is split into five sections.  Each  section explains when a claim can be made. 
Under section one, a claim can be made up to the completion date. Under sections two  
five, a claim can only be made after the completion  date. 
Completion date  is defined within the warranty as:
This is the later of the following  dates for a home
a The date of legal completionof  the purchase by the first owner.
b The date of the Buildmark  confirmation 
Buildmark confirmation is defined  as:
Ref: DRN20860562The document  we issue to the builder to confirm a home is protected by 
Buildmark.
Buildmark is defined  as:
The protection  provided by NHBC  and the builder as explained in this document.
The warranty also says:
The protection  under  Sections 2-5 will only come into force if we issue  a Buildmark 
confirmation and is limited to the cover  described in this document
NHBC didnt issue a Buildmark confirmation document to the developer, because the 
developer became insolvent before NHBC was able to complete its final checks. That 
unfortunately means Mr Y doesnt  have any cover under sections  two  five, and so Im 
satisfied his ability to claim is limited to section  one, which is the insurance that applies 
before completion.  
Ive therefore  considered  whether Mr Y has a valid claim under  section  one.
Section one says:
This section applies if you lose your deposit  or have to pay more  to complete the 
building of your home because the builder is insolvent or commits fraud.
And
We will reimburse  your deposit or we will pay you the reasonable extra cost above 
the contract  price for work necessary to complete your home to the NHBC 
requirements. Alternatively, if we choose to, we will take responsibility  for having the 
work done to complete your home.
NHBC has turned down a claim under section one. It thought  the property, at the time the 
developer became insolvent, was near to completion. It said Mr Y was already living there, 
and a document called  Valuation 19 had all items marked  at 100% by the developer. 
Consequently, it didnt think Mr Y needed to pay more to complete the building  of his home.  
Under the warranty, NHBC is obliged to pay the reasonable extra cost above the contract 
price for work necessary  to complete the home to NHBC requirements. Whilst I appreciate 
the developer  had thought  all items were completed, we dont know  that these were  to 
NHBCs requirements as NHBC didnt carry out final checks  on the property. Though given 
the problems that were  found a short while later, it seems unlikely that the property had been  
completed to NHBC requirements. 
Ref: DRN20860563It therefore seems to me that NHBC ought to cover the cost of the fees that were  paid above 
the contract  price to complete the property to NHBC requirements. To be clear, that does not 
extend to work carried out to Mr Ys own specifications. 
However, NHBC is only required  to cover the costs of completing  the home. It isnt required 
under section one to cover any damage  that has happened because the developer failed  to 
comply with NHBCs requirements  that would normally be dealt with under other sections 
of the policy, which  Mr Y cant claim under. I therefore dont intend to require NHBC to cover  
the cost of putting right the damage caused  by the flooding. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
NHBC responded to confirm it accepted  my provisional findings.  
Mr Ys representative responded to say it accepted my provisional decision, though it 
reserved its position  concerning the damage  which  occurred to the property. It also included 
the costs it thought NHBC ought to pay under section one of cover.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ys representative has estimated the costs it thinks NHBC ought to pay in order to 
complete the property  to NHBC requirements.  To be clear, Im not making a finding on those 
costs within  this decision as they havent  yet been  considered by NHBC. The two parties will 
need to discuss  the work  that has been  done in order to complete the property, and reach  an 
appropriate settlement  figure. If an agreement cant be reached,  Mr Y can make  a new 
complaint about  that matter. 
I note Mr Ys representative has included a figure for costs to put right the damage caused  
by the flooding. However, as Ive explained in my provisional decision, I dont require NHBC 
to cover the cost of putting right this damage. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require National House-Building 
Council to reimburse Mr Y for the costs he paid above the contract price  to have his home 
completed to NHBC requirements, in line with the remaining policy  terms. That does not 
include any costs to put right the damage  caused  by the flooding.
Interest should  be added  at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date Mr Y paid the 
invoice/s to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN20860564Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
If NHBC considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Y a certificate showing this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2086056