K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Ms E says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The mortgage application had a section for PPI. There were two tick boxes to choose 
from: one to take PPI and one to turn it down. Both boxes were  equally prominent. The 
box to take PPI was ticked, and Ms E signed and submitted the application. She also 
signed and submitted  a separate application specifically for PPI, along  with a direct  debit 
instruction to pay for it  separately  to paying  for the mortgage  itself. So I think that Lloyds 
made it clear Ms E didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though I can 
certainly understand why she might not remember this after so long.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms E, so it had to check  that the policy  was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and 
so far as shes told us, she didnt  have any other  protection  in case  she was off work  sick 
or lost her job. I understand Ms Es family wouldve  been happy to help, but there was 
always the chance theyd be unable to help when  needed. And this policy meant Ms E 
wouldnt have to ask her family to pay her mortgage. Its worth bearing in mind that the 
mortgage was Ms Es sole responsibility,  and if she fell behind  on her payments she 
risked losing her home. So I think the PPI couldve really  been useful for her in protecting  
her home and giving  some peace  of mind.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the main things 
the PPI didnt cover, and it would have  been  useful for Ms E in case something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it wouldve been affordable. And so I dont think better information 
about the PPI was likely to have put Ms E off taking it out. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms E because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms E about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN23139142my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms E.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Ms E any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313914