K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about the service  provided  in relation to a central  heating  insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
Mrs S took out the policy with British Gas around 20 years ago and transferred  it to three 
different properties,  including in 2010,  when she moved into a new build property. The policy 
held by Mrs S includes an annual service of the boiler. During the annual service in 
November 2017,  the engineer advised Mrs S to have a magna booster installed on the 
central heating system,  as this would trap circulating particles that can cause blockage  in the 
system.
Mrs S is extremely unhappy that this product  was not mentioned to her at any of the 
previous annual services.  She says her property was a new build and if the magna booster 
had been installed  from the outset  which she would have done had British  Gas told her 
about it  it would have extended the life of her brand new boiler  and central heating system. 
The engineer told her that as the boiler  was now considered old, if a few parts went wrong 
now it would  be obsolete, or she might  have to wait several weeks for new parts. 
Mrs S says British Gas has let her down as she relied on it to inform  her of any such 
products: I am not a trained  gas engineer,  British  Gas are the trained professionals and as 
such I trust British Gas to keep me updated  and informed at least once a year on the annual  
service  I have  been greatly let down on this as we invest  a lot into our home to ensure 
efficiency and we have never  been offered the Magna Booster before the 6th November 
2017". (Mrs Ss letter  of complaint dated February 2018.) The engineer also told her that 18 
months to two years earlier the magna booster would have been half price due to a 
government discount  scheme. 
Mrs S says that British  Gas agreed in a telephone  conversation  on 10 March  2018 to carry 
out a test on the water in the central heating system (to see if a power flush was needed) 
and then to fit a magna booster free of charge. Mrs S agreed  to this but says British  Gas just 
wasted her time, as it tested the water  and said a power flush wasnt  needed but then went 
back on its offer of the free magna  booster. 
British Gas says it has not done  anything wrong  and it has provided the correct safety and 
efficiency advice at each annual service visit. It says that the magna booster was advised 
because it might be useful  now but it might  not have been  of any benefit  in 2010. It offered to 
fit the magna  booster at a discounted  price  of £199.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and did not recommend it be upheld.  He 
explained that the annual  services are to check the functioning and safety  of the central 
heating system and British Gas has no obligation to advise customers of possible products 
such as this. The magna booster is not provided as part of the insurance cover and is an 
optional upgrade that Mrs S would always have to pay for. 
Mrs S does not accept  the investigators  assessment and so the matter  has been passed  to 
me. 
Mrs S has made a number of submissions, which  Ive summarised  below:
Ref: DRN29518502She has discussed points with the investigator  which he has not addressed in his 
assessment, including that British Gas confirmed it had checked her records three 
times and there is no record of her ever having been  offered the magna booster 
between 2010  and 2017 and the representative agreed that this looked bad for 
British Gas. 
British Gas has a habit of not being able to provide recordings of telephone calls that 
would prove her case. She was offered  a free magna booster in a phone call on 10 
March 2018 but it cant provide the recording  of this call. 
She has had a separate complaint to the Energy Ombudsman which also involved 
the content of some  phone calls, which British Gas could  not provide recordings of 
and that Ombudsman decided the case in her favour because of that. 
The engineers  report says the magna booster would prevent muck from building  up 
in the central heating  system. This has been  her point  all along  she should have 
been offered the magna booster when she moved into her newly built home, as it 
would have prevented any problems. As it is a preventative step it should have been 
offered when she moved in, as that is when it was needed. So the fact it was not 
offered when it would  have  been most needed proves British Gas did something 
wrong.  
The engineer  told her that the reason it was not advised before was that the previous 
engineers were sub-contractors. She is also extremely unhappy as when she phoned  
to complain, she was told the magna booster would  be installed free of charge but 
British Gas has now denied this. 
The engineer  that tested the water recommended  a magna booster for filtration to 
prevent sludge  build up and queried why she hadnt had one fitted before. 
She is also unhappy with the time taken  by British Gas to deal with her complaint. 
Mrs S also asked for me to contact her by phone to discuss the case,  as she has lost faith in 
our service.  Deciding ombudsman dont routinely talk to either party  to the complaint, as 
fairness would  usually require that both parties  be involved in any discussion at the same  
time. However, we may do so if there is information  that is unclear or a dispute about the 
facts of the case that we consider can only be clarified by discussing it with the parties.    
Mrs S has made her case clearly  both in writing and verbally to the investigator and I have  
been provided with all the papers on the case, including  her recent  submission dated 3 
September 2019. There is no apparent  dispute  about the main fact of the case, i.e. that she 
was not offered a magna  booster before  2017, the issue is essentially whether British  Gas 
should have done so, therefore I dont consider it is necessary to discuss  this case with the 
parties in order to fairly determine the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ss policy is an insurance policy, which includes an annual service. This means  it will 
provide cover for any repairs, and possibly replacement, of the boiler and central  heating  
system in the event  of any faults or damage: "Your product only includes  repairing or 
replacing your boiler appliance or system when it stops working properly - it doesn't  include 
any improvements or upgrades"
The engineers that attend to carry out the annual service each year,  and any call outs,  might  
provide advice about additional products or services  but they are under  no obligation to do 
so. There is no provision  in the insurance  contract  for advice about  preventative  measures, 
Ref: DRN29518503or optional  upgrades to central  heating  systems,  such  as a magna booster and no industry  
requirement for one to be advised.
Mrs S says she was told she had not been advised to have  a magna booster previously, as 
all the previous engineers were subcontractors.  This might be right but it makes no 
difference why the magna  booster was not mentioned  before  2017,  as there is no obligation 
on British Gas to have offered it at any stage, including in 2017. Mrs S says that a British 
Gas representative  told her the fact there  is no record of it being mentioned to her before 
2017 looked bad but theres no dispute  that it wasnt mentioned  before 2017 and it didnt 
have to discuss such products with her at any time.
Similarly, whether it is a preventative measure or not makes no difference, as the crux of the 
matter is that British Gas doesnt have to recommend  such  products at any time. Mrs S 
might say she relied on its expertise to recommend products but it has no obligation to do so 
under the terms  of a central heating insurance policy.  
Mrs S also says she was told shed get a magna booster fitted free. There is no recording of 
the call in which she says this was discussed.  British Gas says this is because  it was on a 
company mobile,  rather than a landline. Mrs S says that as British  Gas cant disprove  what 
she says about  the conversation,  I should  decide this issue in her favour.  It is obviously 
useful to have  call recordings  but they are not always  available and I have to consider all 
available evidence. British  Gass records dont give any indication that any such offer was 
made.
In any case, even if I accept entirely what Mrs S says about this call, I do not consider that it 
changes the outcome of this complaint. I say this because British  Gass final response  to the 
complaint is that it is not offering a free magna booster. So even if one had been offered 
previously, which  is not proven, British Gas is not bound by this if it subsequently changed 
its mind.  
British Gas agreed to test the water  in the central  heating system and confirmed it was 
clean. Mrs S says this was a waste of her time but I dont agree. One conclusion of the fact 
the water  was clear  is that not having  had a magna booster fitted previously has not affected 
the water  quality. I consider this to have  been a reasonable  action to take.  It has also offered 
to fit a magna  booster  at a discounted  cost of £199.   
I can see there was some  delay in dealing with the complaint but we do not regulate financial 
businesses and I do not consider that this made  a difference  to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
British Gas acted reasonably in testing the water and offering  a discounted product. Having 
taken all the circumstances  into account,  I do not consider that I can reasonably require  
British Gas to do anything further in response  to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN29518504my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2951850