K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Ageas Insurance  Limited  wont accept her furniture insurance claim. 
My references to Ageas include its agents.
background
Mrs G found a large black mark on the back cushion  of her leather sofa. She claimed  under 
her furniture staining and accidental damage insurance policy, insured by Ageas. She didnt 
know what caused the stain.
Ageas wouldnt  accept the claim.  The policy covered staining from sudden  and accidental 
contact with any substance. Its technician had inspected the sofa and said the staining was 
from hair/bodily oils soaking  into the leather overtime. Ageas  said Mrs Gs claim wasnt  
covered as the stain wasnt caused  by a sudden accidental event.
Mrs G complained to us. She said the mark was lower than where someone would put their 
head on the cushion. She wants the cushion repaired.
Our investigator thought Ageas had fairly declined the claim.  
Mrs G would like an ombudsmans  decision on her complaint. She thinks  the sofa might  be 
faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  
I have to decide whether Ageas fairly  declined the claim, and I think  it did. Ill explain why.
The policy covers staining on leather  upholstery  resulting from sudden and accidental 
contact with any substance. The policy specifically excludes cover for changes  in colour of 
any part of the sofa unless its sudden  and accidental.
Ive seen photos of the stain which is large  and noticeable. Mrs G hasnt been able to tell 
Ageas or us when the staining occurred or what caused it. 
Ageas sent its technician  to inspect the sofa to report on the likely cause of the stain. That's 
a reasonable thing  for it to do in a claim for damage. 
The report  says the leather felt sticky and tacky and there was a severe colour loss. The 
technician did a heat test on the sofa and noted  oils coming from the stained  area of the 
sofa. His/her opinion was that the stained  area had been caused  by a build-up  of oils over 
time from someones head  and the stain wasnt due to a sudden event.
Ageas can fairly understand from the expert's report that the stain  was caused  by a build-up 
of oil rather than a sudden  event. Theres no other  expert evidence to say the technicians 
opinion is wrong.  
Ref: DRN23741472Ageas fairly said that Mrs Gs claim isnt covered by the policy.  It doesnt need  to repair or 
replace the damaged cushion.
 
Mrs Gs mentioned she thinks the sofa might be defective. If thats correct Ageas wouldnt be 
responsible for the defect under the insurance  policy. Our investigator had told Mrs G the 
Furniture Ombudsman service may be able to help her with a complaint about  the sofa being 
defective and she may want  to contact that service.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2374147