K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complains  about issues theyve experienced with a car supplied with finance 
from Black  Horse Limited.
background
In October  2019 Mrs K was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse.
At the time of ordering the car Mrs K chose privacy glass as a factory  fitted option and paid 
an additional  sum of £390.
On collecting the car, Mrs K discovered  that it didnt have factory  fitted privacy glass  but 
instead the windows had been tinted using an aftermarket film.
Mrs K wasnt  able to resolve  the issue with the dealership so she complained to Black 
Horse.
Black Horse  investigated the complaint.  It said the dealership had provided a copy  of the 
sales invoice which stated  that the car was ordered with privacy  glass  as an accessory 
rather than an option. It said when privacy glass is ordered as an accessory,  a film tint is 
applied by the retailer. Black Horse  looked at a sales invoice provided by Mrs K which  was 
signed and dated prior to the copy provided  by the dealership. This invoice said the car was 
ordered with privacy glass as a factory  fitted  option. Based on this Black Horse upheld  Mrs 
Ks complaint and offered  three alternative resolutions.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with Black Horsess  response and complained  to this service. She didnt 
think the compensation offered was sufficient and said her preferred option  would be to 
change the car. She was also unhappy  that the dealership had produced  what  she 
considered to be a fabricated  invoice,  where privacy  glass  had been included under 
accessories rather than options and where  adoptive dynamics  had been  added as an 
optional extra which she hadnt  requested and which she didnt think had been added  to the 
car in any event.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the car wasnt as described which  
amounted to a breach of contract but she thought  the offers made  by Black Horse to put 
things right were fair.
Mrs K didnt agree. She didnt think the offers from Black Horse  put her back  in the position  
she was in before she purchased the car. She also remained unhappy  about  the 
discrepancies in the paperwork and felt that this aspect of her complaint hadnt been fully 
investigated by Black Horse.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mrs K has a like claim against Black 
Horse as she does against  the dealership for breach of contract and/or misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mrs Ks complaint, I would need  to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Black  Horsess  response wasnt  fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN28108192The relevant  law says that a car must be of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and as 
described. In this case, Black Horse has agreed that the car wasnt  supplied  as described, 
because it didnt have  the factory fitted privacy glass which Mrs K ordered.  It doesnt appear 
to be disputed by Black Horse that theres been a breach  of contract so I wont focus on this. 
What is in dispute is what should be done  to put things  right,  so my decision will focus on 
that.
When a breach of contract is established under section 75, Id expect the finance  provider to 
take steps to put things right as if the breach hadnt occurred. In Mrs Ks case, this might  
mean taking  steps  to remedy the fault and arrange for factory fitted  privacy  glass. Or it might 
mean going as far as cancelling the finance  agreement, taking the car back  and refunding 
any payments made, less any reasonable deductions for use of the car.
Black Horse  has made three alternative offers to settle the complaint. These are:
Refund the cost of the privacy glass together with 8% interest and compensation of 
£250.
Replace the windows  with factory fitted  privacy  glass and compensation of £250
End the agreement, refund the payments made (less usage charges), refund the 
deposit together with 8% interest and compensation of £250
Ive thought about all of the things that Mrs K has said about why she doesnt think any of 
thee options are reasonable. Ive taken  into account  her concerns about ending  the 
agreement and her feelings about the usage charge. There are no set rules about  how much 
Black Horse  can charge  for usage  other  than it must be appropriate and fair, taking into 
account the mileage  covered and time elapsed. I can see that Mrs K has covered  a 
significant amount  of mileage and I dont think its unreasonable for Black Horse to claim for 
usage. As to the rate per mile, 45 p is in line with the HMRC approved mileage allowance  
rate, so Im unable  to say that this is unfair.
I appreciate Mrs Ks concerns about  possible  being without a car if she decided to accept the 
offer to replace the tinted windows with factory fitted privacy  glass.  Whilst I cant be certain of 
how long this type of repair might  take,  Black Horse  has said that the dealership  will provide 
Mrs K with a courtesy car during this time. So Im satisfied that she wouldnt be left without a 
car.
Ive thought about the compensation offered in each of the alternative  suggested  resolutions.  
I appreciate that Mrs K doesnt  think £250 is adequate to reflect  whats happened. Ive taken 
into account the actions of the dealership and Mrs Ks concern that the discrepancies with 
the paperwork hasnt  been fully investigated. Its not disputed that the dealership  provided  
documents which were  at odds with those held by Mrs K. I cant  be certain of whether this 
was due to a error by the dealership or something  else. However, whilst I appreciate  Mrs Ks 
desire to have this fully investigated by Black  Horse, I dont think the outcome of any such 
investigation would alter my decision here. Im satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract. The documentary discrepancies are an aggravating  factor in terms of distress 
caused to Mrs K and this is something which can be reflected  in compensation.
Taking everything into account,  I think each of the three alternative offers made  by Black 
Horse are fair and reasonable,  including the amount of compensation, which I think  fairly  
reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs K.
Ref: DRN28108193For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2810819