K822xcomplaint
Miss W is unhappy  with how HSBC UK Bank  Plc dealt with an international payment she 
made from her bank account. She wants HSBC to pay her a substantial  amount of 
compensation  much  more than its already paid to her. 
background 
In November 2018 Miss W wanted to make an international payment to a company based  in 
the United Arab  Emirates UAE). She instructed the payment to be made from her HSBC  
bank account.  But due to regulations in the UAE, further information was needed for the 
payment to be processed. 
Miss W didnt provide the required information.  Instead, she used an international money  
transfer company  to make the payment.  The original  payment was returned to her HSBC  
bank account.  
Miss W complained to HSBC about how it had dealt with the payment  request. The bank 
explained the payment had been held for regulatory checks  and further  information  had been  
needed. HSBC  said it should have told Miss W this earlier and asked  her for the additional  
information sooner.  The bank credited £100 to her account for this. 
Miss W wasnt happy with this and continued  to pursue her complaint with HSBC. She then 
referred the matter  to our service. One of our investigators looked  into the complaint. In 
short, he thought  HSBC should  pay Miss W a further  £100  for the trouble and upset  shed 
experienced  so £200 in total. 
Miss W wasnt happy with this. Briefly, she said her full complaint was that she had to take 
six days off work to deal with this as the issue would result her being  sanctioned  in the UAE 
if the problem  wasnt fixed. Miss W also questioned why the investigator hadnt  reviewed  
details of how HSBC  had dealt with her complaint. She said her losses  were much higher  
than the £200 recommended. Miss W also said the bank  had called her a liar and she would 
take this issue  to court. 
Our investigator pointed  out that we dont usually make awards  for loss of earnings  and 
there is an expectation that people will deal with complaints in their own time. He explained 
he still thought  a total of £200 in compensation was appropriate here. 
Miss W didnt accept  this. So her complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  HSBC needs to 
pay Miss W a further £100  in compensation for the upset and inconvenience  shes been 
caused. Ill explain why. 
But first, Im aware  that Ive summarised  this complaint very briefly,  in far less detail  than has 
been provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead,  Ive 
focussed on what I think is the crux of the matter  here: did HSBC  act fairly and reasonably 
when processing  Miss Ws international payment request? 
Ref: DRN21475092Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  point or argument  to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Also, our decisions are published. So its important that I dont include any information which  
might identify Miss W. So, as above, Ive referred only briefly  to whats  happened,  rather 
than providing  an exact timeline of the events which Miss W has complained  about. 
Im very aware of Miss Ws health situation. Ive not gone into any detail about  this to protect 
her privacy.  I really do appreciate her position  and what a difficult time this has been, and 
continues to be for her. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have to put aside my 
natural feelings  of empathy and consider  the case impartially  and fairly.  
Ill now turn to the international payment Miss W wanted to make. She carried  this out online 
on 20 November 2018. She asked for 2,814.43  Arab Emirates  Dirham (AED) to be sent to a 
recipient in the UAE. Her HSBC account  was debited with the equivalent in sterling - 
£620.12  along with a £4 fee. 
But two days later, the intermediary bank in the UAE sent a message to HSBC.  It said the 
payment couldnt  be processed without further  information being provided about  the 
intended recipient.  I can see the required information was fairly  basic  personal details 
including such things  as the recipients full name,  date of birth and nationality.  
International payments are subject to legal and regulatory requirements both in the UK and 
the country the payment  is being  sent to. This means  international payments  can be 
delayed. The delays  are often nothing to do with the bank making the payment. Instead, its 
the intermediary bank, the recipient  bank  or a combination of both of these that need to carry 
out further checks, usually to comply with local regulations. Thats what happened  here.  
Further information was needed to comply  with the local requirements  in the UAE. 
Unfortunately, HSBC didnt respond to the message  from the intermediary. A few days  later, 
the intermediary sent through another  request  for this information. This time, HSBC  did pick 
up the message  and it tried to get the outstanding information from Miss W. This was on the 
28 November. 
First, the bank called her. Miss W told us she was asked to agree to a deposit of €2,814  into 
her account.  She refused  to give any information. I can understand this. Shed received an 
unexpected call from an unknown number asking her to accept a deposit she hadnt asked 
for. Quite  naturally, she was suspicious. 
HSBC then sent Miss W a secure  electronic message asking for the outstanding  information. 
It also sent her a letter through the post.  In the meantime, Miss W had already called HSBC. 
After speaking to several  people,  she was told about the additional  information  that was 
needed. I can see there seems to have been  some  confusion about what  payment HSBC 
was talking about. Miss W told us the bank was referring to €2,814 while  the banks records  
show the amount  as 2,814.43 AED EURO. 
In any event, given  that Miss W had only made  the international  payment a few days  earlier  
and would have  know from the transaction details that it was 2,814.43 AED,  I think its 
reasonable to think she should have recognised fairly quickly  what  HSBC  was talking about. 
Ref: DRN21475093I dont think any confusion  over this should  have  reasonably caused her any upset or 
inconvenience. 
Miss W told us that she found the information that HSBC had requested  to be quite absurd. 
But I need to make it clear  here that it wasnt  HSBC  who needed  this information. The 
intermediary in the UAE needed the information in order to comply  with local regulations.  
This had nothing to do HSBC in the UK. It follows that I cant  hold it responsible  for what  
information was needed. 
Miss W also told us that she was asked to provide  a copy  of the recipients passport. But 
after looking  at all the available  evidence,  I dont think thats quite right.  Ive seen various 
copies of the list of nine questions, including a copy of HSBCs letter  provided to us by Miss 
W, that the bank needed answering. None of these asks for a copy  of the recipients 
passport. 
Instead, the list is a standard set of questions asking for basic information about the 
recipient. I dont consider any of this information  to be particularly sensitive or that difficult to 
obtain. The required information was the recipients:  full name;  date of birth;  nationality;  
citizenship; country of residence; full address; gender;  and, his relationship  to Miss W. The 
full reason for the payment was also needed. 
As Miss W wasnt  happy with what was happening, a complaint was raised while  she was on 
the phone. She told us she immediately left her office and went  to a branch of HSBC  to find 
out what was happening.  I know that while Miss W was still on the phone to the bank, she 
said she was going to a branch. HSBC told her she didnt need to do this as her complaint 
had been logged. 
But it seems  Miss W wanted to speak to a branch manager to get things resolved. This was 
her choice, and one she was perfectly  entitled to make. But I dont accept this branch  visit 
was necessary. 
Miss W told us she was under significant  duress  as any form of debt in the UAE could 
impact her ability to enter the country.  I fully accept that. But by this stage, HSBC had told 
her why the payment had been  delayed and what information was needed. As Ive already  
said, this information  was quite basic and should have been reasonably straightforward to 
get. 
I understand that Miss W thought that it was absurd that this information was needed.  But 
she told us she was worried sick by this issue. In that case, its reasonable to think  that a 
simple way to resolve the issue would have been to ask the recipient for the required details. 
The following  day  29 November  Miss W received the letter  HSBC had sent requesting 
the outstanding information. She again visited a branch of HSBC.  Again, I dont think  this 
visit was necessary. The letter explained  what information HSBC  needed  to process  the 
payment. So Miss W already knew how she could resolve the situation. 
Miss W says that the branch staff couldnt believe what  she was being  asked to supply. That 
may well be the case. But it has little bearing on this case. Firstly,  it wasnt  HSBC that was 
insisting on the information, it was the intermediary bank. Also, the branch wasnt 
responsible for administering the international payment. That was a separate  department.  
Ref: DRN21475094I know Miss W thinks that to all intents and purposes, the intermediary bank  and HSBC  were 
one and the same. But thats  not the case.  While the intermediary bank is indeed  a member 
of the wider HSBC  group  of companies,  it is a totally separate legal entity  to the ring-fenced 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. The two businesses arent the same  bank.  
Miss W also spoke  to HSBCs Electronic Payment Services  Team. I accept she seems  to 
have been given conflicting  information  about whom  and what  was holding up her payment. 
But Ive also borne in mind  that by now, Miss W had already received a letter  from HSBC  
confirming what information  was needed. 
Miss W told us that shed contacted the recipient who told her there  was no issue with his 
account. Given she was in contact with the recipient, Im satisfied that it would  have been  
reasonable for Miss W to simply ask him for the outstanding information. As Ive already 
said, none of the information was sensitive, nor should it have been onerous or time 
consuming to provide.  
It seems  Miss W then agreed that HSBC would request information from the intermediary 
and the recipient bank. Its not clear  to me what information she wanted.  When  Miss W didnt 
hear anything back  she called HSBC on 3 December. She says the recipient didnt believe 
there was a problem.  Once again,  I think it would  have  been reasonable to simply have 
asked the recipient for the outstanding  information. 
At this point, Miss Ws recollection of events becomes  a bit confusing  and contradictory.  She 
said that to her horror,  HSBC had only contacted the intermediary on 29 November despite 
promising her and the branch manager this would be done on 28 November. But as above, 
Miss W told us that she agreed on 29 November (my emphasis) that HSBC would contact 
the intermediary  not 28 November. 
She then immediately went on to say that shed told HSBC it was imperative that it contacted  
the intermediary on Thursday 29 November as Friday is the weekend in the UAE.  This 
completely contradicts her previous horror that HSBC only got in touch with the intermediary 
on 29 November rather than 28 November.  So I dont think  the bank contacting the 
intermediary on 29 November should reasonably have  caused Miss W any inconvenience or 
upset. 
In any event, as Miss W hadnt provided the requested  information,  it was agreed that the 
payment would be recalled and returned  to her account. The full payment of £620.12 was 
returned to Miss Ws account  on 12 December.  The £4 fee wasnt refunded.  
Miss W then returned home  and tried to send the payment using  an international money 
transfer company.  But it seems the payment wouldnt go through.  Miss W says there 
shouldnt have been a problem as there  was over £3,000 in her account. But thats  not quite 
right. I can see from her bank statement that on 3 December there was a credit balance  of 
around £2,560.  
I can also see this balance included  a cheque for around £2,540 that had been paid into the 
account a couple of days earlier.  Its not clear to me if this cheque  had cleared by 
3 December, but it could explain why Miss W couldnt make the payment via the money 
transfer company  that day. 
Whatever the reason for the problem, Miss W visited the branch again the next day. After an 
issue with her signature, she withdrew £620. Miss W told us she then spent the rest of the 
Ref: DRN21475095day finding a branch  of the money transfer company she wanted  to use. Im not sure why 
this was the case, as there  is a branch of this company within  a ten minute walk of the HSBC  
branch she was in. Miss W was then able to make  the payment. 
Its clear to me that HSBC should have contacted  Miss W sooner than it did. I also think  its 
communication around why further information was needed, and who was requesting it could  
have been much clearer. But Ive also taken into account that the payment was able to be 
successfully made within  two weeks of the original attempt. 
To reiterate  what our investigator said, we dont usually look to award  compensation for loss 
of earnings for the time someone has spent dealing  with a complaint  - and Im not satisfied 
Miss W needed  to personally go to the branches  of HSBC for the payment to go through.  By 
29 November she had a letter  from the bank listing the information that was needed. As Ive 
said several times, I dont  think this information  was either sensitive  or difficult to obtain.  She 
had the opportunity to ask for this information and mitigate the issue.  
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive considered here the effect  Miss W says this has had on her 
health. I know her health situation was present before this issue arose. I fully accept she 
found it a very stressful experience. But I dont accept any affect  HSBCs  actions may have 
had on her would reasonably  warrant  the large amount of compensation Miss W is looking 
for. 
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied  that a total of £200 in compensation  for the trouble 
and upset Miss W reasonably experienced, is proportionate to the situation here. This also 
covers the initial  £4 fee charged by HSBC and the £20 fee charged by the money transfer 
company. 
I know Miss W remains very unhappy  with how HSBC continued  to deal with this issue after 
shed finally  made  the payment to the UAE. But Im satisfied  the initial problem  
successfully making the transfer to the UAE  was resolved  by 4 December 2018. The rest 
of her various concerns relate to how HSBC has continued to deal with her complaint, the 
amount of compensation she is looking for, and how it deals  with complaints in general.  
I think it would be useful  here to give some  details about our service.  We arent  a regulator. 
We have no power to punish  or fine a bank.  Nor can we tell HSBC  how it should organise  its 
Complaints team, what systems it should  have in place,  or insist that it has a compensation 
policy and framework. That simply isnt our role. Nor can we look at complaints about  how a 
complaint has been dealt  with. That isnt an activity that falls within the remit of this service. 
I can see that Miss W clearly remains dissatisfied  with the service  shes received from 
HSBC. I would make the following general  comment here. Ultimately, any commercial 
business that consistently fails to provide a reasonable level of customer  service is likely to 
lose customers, as they will choose  to take their business elsewhere. 
For completeness, it would be remiss of me not to point  out that if Miss W feels unable to 
accept my decision, neither she nor HSBC will be bound by it. This means  the bank will be 
under no obligation at all to pay her the additional  £100. 
My final decision marks the end of our process.  If Miss W doesnt accept my decision, and 
shes under  no obligation  whatsoever to do so, she would be free to pursue this matter 
through other means,  such  as the courts, should  she wish to do so. Im aware that Miss W 
has said she is considering this. 
Ref: DRN21475096As Ive already  said, our service is a free alternative to the courts. Im sure Miss W will be 
aware that taking  legal action is often very expensive.  If this is something she wants  to 
pursue, she may wish to seek independent  advice before  doings  so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay a further  £100  to Miss W - in addition 
to the £100 its already paid to her  for the trouble and upset shes  experienced. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2147509