K820x#14complaint
Mr E, a loss assessor, complains on behalf of Miss W. She is unhappy that Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  (LV) wont pay her claim for storm damage to her conservatory 
under her home insurance.
background
In July 2017 Miss W returned  from holiday to find that a roof panel  in her conservatory  had 
blown out, and rain had come in. She made  a claim to LV through  Mr E. LV sent out 
contractors who carried out a temporary  repair  to prevent further  water  coming  in. It later 
assessed the damage. It agreed  to pay for Miss Ws damaged contents under the accidental 
damage cover in her policy. But it wouldnt cover  the damage  to the conservatory. It said that 
the damage wasnt caused by a one-off storm incident, as there were no storm conditions at 
the time,  but by poor and incorrect installation of the roof panels, and due to their 
deterioration with age.
Mr E replied  that the roof panel had been blown out by a sudden  gust of wind.  He also said 
that in carrying  out a temporary repair, LVs contractors had caused damage  to the roof by 
screwing timber battens directly into the roof bars. He said LV should  now carry out a 
permanent repair. LV pointed out that the roof was in a poor condition  and that the 
temporary repair had been  to stop any more water  coming in. It noted that Miss W was 
claiming for a replacement conservatory.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that having looked at the weather records,  
there was no storm around the time of the claim. She also said the policy didnt cover 
damage by wear and tear or deterioration  or faulty  workmanship.
Mr E responded that there was a storm, and that Miss W had accidental damage  cover,  He 
further said that LV should now pay for a permanent repair  following the damage done  by its 
contractors in carrying out the temporary repair.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator correctly said when considering storm cases we have to consider first of 
all whether there was a storm  on or around  the date the damage is said to have happened. If 
no such storm occurred then the claim couldnt be considered under the storm damage 
cover in the policy. So first of all I have  to establish  whether  there was in fact a storm.
The damage was said to have occurred on or about 17 July 2017, although I understand that 
because Miss W was away  the damage  was only discovered on 25 July. A storm has to be a 
single identifiable  event. There is no definition of storm  in the policy but we generally 
consider a storm to involve violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  I have 
looked at the weather records for the week or so around and up to 25 July. There was no 
rainfall of any significance. And the maximum wind speed recorded for any day was 26mph 
on 24 July. That could  best be described  as a strong breeze  (as set out in the Beaufort 
Scale, a classification system  for measuring wind speed) and not a violent wind. 
Ref: DRN29784582So I dont  think there was a storm at any time around the date of the damage.  This means 
that the damage isnt covered under the storm section of the policy.
Mr E has mentioned that Miss W has accidental damage cover  in her policy.  LVs 
contractors noted  that the roof of the conservatory  was in a poor condition.  They  also said 
the roof had been incorrectly installed, causing  the panels  to become loose over time. They 
also said that the wood had deteriorated and started  to rot in places.  The policy has an 
exclusion whereby  LV wont pay for damage caused  by gradual deterioration or wear and 
tear. It also wont pay for damage caused  by faulty design, materials  or workmanship. I 
havent seen any evidence challenging LVs contractors'  conclusion.  So I think  it fair that LV 
wont pay for the damage to the conservatory  roof.
Miss W also says that, in carrying out a temporary repair,  LVs contractors  damaged the 
conservatory by screwing  battens directly into the roof bars.  Ive seen a photo of the 
temporary repair. I note this was done as an emergency repair to protect the inside  of the 
building (and LV has accepted liability for the internal  damage).  Ive noted that the roof is in 
poor condition  and indeed that Mr E submitted a claim for a replacement conservatory.  As 
the conservatory roof was in poor condition and would have to be replaced any way, I dont 
think Miss W was prejudiced by the temporary repair. I also note that the policy allows  for 
emergency repairs. It says:
Emergency  assistance  may involve a temporary  repair such as fitting  a tarpaulin to prevent
water entering your home.  Please note that you may have to arrange and pay for home
maintenance work in order to complete a permanent repair.
I dont think, by carrying out the temporary  repair, that this obligated LV to carry out a 
permanent repair. The policy made it clear that any emergency help would be subject to the 
claim being accepted.
So overall I dont  think the repairs to Miss W's conservatory roof are covered under the 
policy,
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2978458