K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr B complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by charging interest  on a lifetime  mortgage after Mr Bs death  and not 
contributing to the costs of the sale of the property.  It wants the interest charged after Mr Bs 
death and half the sale expenses refunded.
background
Mr B was retired  and took out a lifetime mortgage with Aviva. After his death, Mr Bs family 
were told that Aviva  would  continue  to charge interest to the account  until it was paid in full. 
The estate  of Mr B sold the property  quickly,  and said that it did so at a very low price  in 
order to pay Aviva and reduce the interest charges. The estate of Mr B felt that Aviva 
shouldnt have charged interest after his death  and shouldve paid towards  the sale costs as 
a co-owner. It also said that Aviva claimed  more money than it shouldve.
The estate  of Mr B complained to Aviva. It said that the interest was charged as set out in 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage  taken out by Mr B  interest  could be charged until 
the debt was repaid in full, though the mortgage  became due for payment upon Mr Bs 
death. Aviva  pointed out that Mr B was given independent legal advice about the mortgage 
when it was taken  out, and it was for the solicitor to ensure Mr B understood the position.  
Aviva also explained  that it never owned  the property as it just had a mortgage over it, and 
declined to pay anything  towards the costs of sale.
The estate  of Mr B complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Aviva  wasnt  at fault.  
She explained that under the terms and conditions of the mortgage,  interest  was charged 
until the debt was repaid, and this had been made clear to Mr B. She noted that his solicitors  
signed a certificate  to say that this point, amongst others, had been explained to him. The 
adjudicator also said that Aviva  hadnt owned the property, and wasnt responsible for any of 
the costs of sale. The complaint wasnt upheld.
The estate  of Mr B disagreed and said mortgage interest should be frozen on death and that 
Aviva co-owned the property  the adjudicator explained that this wasnt a legal requirement 
and this service couldnt impose such a rule. A relative of Mr B complained  that Aviva  had 
taken too long to respond to her letters of complaint.  The adjudicator explained that 
complaints handling wasnt a regulated activity and Aviva should really  only deal with the 
appointed executor. She also noted  that Aviva did respond to the relative  in any event.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im clear that this complaint is not about 
the original sale of the mortgage (something which this service looked at in 2015), but about 
what happened after Mr Bs death.
Legally, Aviva is able to charge interest  on the mortgage until its repaid in full. I note that 
Mr B was told in writing by Aviva  and advised  by his solicitor about  this point before taking 
out the mortgage. The solicitor signed a certificate setting out the advice given; I wouldnt 
expect a consumer  to also sign such a certificate as its about  the work  done by the solicitor. 
Aviva is able to rely on the certificate  given by a solicitor as its fair and reasonable to do so. 
Mr B chose to go ahead and accept  the terms and conditions of the mortgage. Its worth 
pointing out that a contract doesnt end on death  Mr Bs estate simply replaces Mr B.
Ref: DRN23236592The estate  of Mr B feels that Aviva  has acted unfairly and unreasonably by charging interest 
after death, but apart from the legal position, the debt wasnt  paid when Mr B died and 
remained outstanding.  I cant  say that its unfair or unreasonable for a lender to expect the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  to be followed, particularly when the fact that interest 
would be charged  after death was made so clear  to Mr B. I think  Aviva acted fairly, 
reasonably and lawfully by claiming interest after death.
And in relation to the issue of the costs  of sale, Aviva wasnt  a co-owner. It was registered as 
a lender who had a charge over the property. Mr B and then his estate were the owners. It 
isnt unfair  or unreasonable to expect the owner  of a property to pay the costs of sale. Its 
also worth  pointing out that even if Aviva had been forced to take possession of the property 
and sell it, it could legally  have deducted  the full costs of sale from the sale proceeds before 
taking the money  it was owed.
Finally, I note that the estate of Mr B says that its Avivas fault that the estate sold the 
property for too low a price. But I can see Aviva gave the estate a year to sell the property 
and the interest  charged after death  was significantly less than the amount the estate  says it 
undercharged for the property. It seems to have  been the choice of the estate to act as it did, 
and I cant hold Aviva responsible.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the Estate of Mr B to accept  or reject my decision 
before 25 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2323659