K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) has treated them  unfairly 
since their mortgage fell into arrears. Theyve said theyre trying  to get things back  on track 
but Barclays isnt taking account of their circumstances or giving  them support. They also 
think Barclays changed the terms of their mortgage  when it took over the account. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage of around £61,800 in 2006 via a broker. The mortgage 
was initially taken with a subsidiary of Barclays but later transferred to Barclays. It was set 
up over 23 years so its due to end in 2029. And it was taken on a repayment basis.  The 
mortgage was on a fixed rate of 4.79% for 24 months after which  it reverted to a tracker 
interest rate. As part of the terms of the mortgage,  Mr and Mrs S were also required to open 
a current account  with the mortgage  provider. 
In April 2017, Mr and Mrs S missed a mortgage payment. And from around July 2017,  they 
were unable to make  any further  mortgage repayments. Mr and Mrs S have  said this is 
because Mr S lost his job and suffered from a severe  medical condition.  
Barclays has said it wrote  to Mr and Mrs S to let them know theyd missed  payments and 
were in arrears. Its also said it initially tried to contact Mr S in October 2017 to discuss his 
circumstances. But as no contact was received, the account was allocated to its solicitors to 
start recovery action in November 2017. In December 2017,  Mr and Mrs S got in touch with 
the solicitors explaining their personal  circumstances and asked to set up a repayment plan 
to pay off the arrears.  Barclays referred  the case  to its customer support team  in response to 
Mr Ss circumstances and told the solicitors  it would halt the recovery action for them  to 
complete an income  and expenditure form to work out an arrangement.  
Between January and May 2018, Barclays contact notes show it attempted  to get in touch  
with Mr and Mrs S on a number of occasions but wasnt  able to get through  to them. So it 
instructed a field agent to visit the property.  The field agent  said Mr and Mrs S had rented 
out the property  to tenants. But Barclays has since told us the property the field agent was 
instructed to visit was at the wrong  address.
Around September 2018, Barclays restarted the recovery action. A month  later, 
Mr and Mrs S got in touch  to say they wanted to resolve the situation but they wouldnt be 
able to cover  the arrears.  The contact notes say the solicitors asked Mr S for evidence  of his 
medical condition.  In December 2018,  Barclays completed an income and expenditure  form 
with Mr S. And based  on this, it said it couldnt work out a repayment arrangement. So it 
offered Mr and Mrs S details of debt charities and a court hearing was set for January 2019.
The day before the court  hearing  was scheduled, Mr and Mrs S got in touch with the 
solicitors to offer a payment of between £350  and £360 per month to pay off the arrears and 
to advise Barclays would need to get the medical  evidence requested directly from Mr Ss 
doctor. Barclays declined  this offer as it didnt think it was realistic based on their income and 
expenditure. And it said it wouldnt be able to contact his doctor.
Ref: DRN22140682The court hearing  was initially  adjourned  until February  2019  and has since  been put on hold 
whilst our service  looked into things. Mr S has said he now has his life back on track as hes 
been receiving  treatment and hes back in work. So he and Mrs S want  Barclays to agree to 
a repayment plan rather than continuing  repossession proceedings. In April 2019, Barclays  
told us no further  mortgage repayments  had been made.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Mr and Mrs Ss income and 
expenditure form showed they werent  in a position  to make extra payments to clear  the 
arrears on the mortgage by the end of the term. She thought  Barclays  had treated 
Mr and Mrs S sympathetically and although she could  see Mr Ss circumstances were 
difficult, she thought Mrs S couldve been in touch.  Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree  with our 
investigators assessment  as they thought Barclays had been  untruthful  about the field agent 
visit and had recorded incorrect information about their income and expenditure. They also 
thought Barclays  hadnt treated them fairly. So the case was been  passed to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September  2019.  I explained  I didnt think 
the complaint  should be upheld in summary  because:
Mr and Mrs S hadnt made  any payments towards the mortgage  since around 
July 2017 until at least April 2019.  And I thought  Barclays had done want Id expect 
to make them aware of the payments theyd missed and the outstanding arrears. It 
also took steps to offer them information  about how it could support them. 
Looking at the contact notes provided  by Barclays, I thought it tried to discuss 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances with them and help them  get their mortgage back  on 
track. I thought it was reasonable for Barclays to want  to know more about their 
situation before agreeing to concessions.  And I thought it made reasonable efforts  to 
engage with Mr and Mrs S to agree a way forward. 
I didnt think the concessions Mr and Mrs S expected  from Barclays  wouldve been 
appropriate considering their circumstances. And the disposable income they had 
based on their income and expenditure wouldnt have  left them with much each 
month to meet increased repayments as part of a repayment plan. 
I thought Barclays  couldve considered  other concessions  which Mr and Mrs S 
hadnt asked for. But they hadnt made any payments to the mortgage  since  they 
said their circumstances had improved. So I didnt think further support from Barclays  
wouldve meant theyd  get things back on track.
I didnt think Barclays acted unreasonably in not pursuing Mr Ss medical evidence 
directly from his doctor. And in any event, I didnt  think  the evidence wouldve made a 
difference in this case even if Barclays had got evidence of it. 
I thought it was unlikely the field agent  Barclays instructed visited Mr and Mrs Ss 
address. But I didnt think the information given in the report  directly led to the 
repossession action Barclays started. And I couldnt see Mr and Mrs S were charged 
for the visit. So I didnt  think  this made  a difference in this case. 
I hadnt seen  anything to suggest the mortgage terms changed from a repayment  
mortgage without  Mr and Mrs S knowing when the mortgage provider changed. 
Ref: DRN22140683responses to my provisional  decision
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
Barclays explained it didnt have further comments to make about the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept my provisional decision.  They said in summary they were 
charged for the visit by the field agent. And they dont think  Barclays has given our service 
correct or true information   both about the field agent and the support and guidance it gave 
when they were struggling to make their repayments.
my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments  including  what  
Mr and Mrs S have  said to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And I still dont  think this complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S are disappointed Barclays gave incorrect  information  about a field 
agent visiting their property. Particularly  as the field agent gathered  information suggesting 
they were renting out the property and not living there. But I think  its more  likely this 
happened in error. Ive seen a copy of the field agents report and Im satisfied they did visit 
a property and obtain the information set out in the report. But I think  it was one of their 
neighbouring properties due to the incorrect address being  given.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think the repossession  action started  by Barclays  was as 
a direct consequence of the field agents report  and I think  its more  likely it still wouldve 
happened if the field agent visited their property. So whilst I understand it mightve been 
worrying for Mr and Mrs S, I dont think it makes  a difference  to the outcome of this 
complaint.
Barclays said it didnt charge a fee for the visit. And although  Mr and Mrs S have said they 
were charged, they havent provided any evidence of this by the deadline given.  So Im not 
satisfied they were charged for the visit. But if they can give evidence  to show they were  
charged for the visit directly to Barclays, I think it would be fair for Barclays  to reimburse 
them for the amount paid  or remove it from their outstanding balance if it hasnt been  paid 
yet.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they werent given any help or support from Barclays  whilst they 
were going  through financial difficulties. But for the reasons explained  in my provisional 
decision and above, I think  Barclays made  reasonable efforts  to engage with them by letter  
and phone to understand more about  their circumstances  and agree a way forward. And 
often Mr and Mrs S didnt respond  to Barclays contact. I also think its more likely  Barclays  
sent Mr and Mrs S letters when they missed payments explaining  the amount outstanding; 
how to pay; what  would  happen if they did nothing and signposting them to charities and 
organisations that would  help them. So Im satisfied it took steps to offer them  information  
about how it could  support  customers  when going  through difficulties.
So overall, having looked at the responses Ive received, I havent changed my conclusions  
set out in my provisional decision. And for the reasons  Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN22140684my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2214068