K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about esure Insurance Limiteds  decision  to write off his car rather than 
repair it and the amount  its offered  him to settle  his claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr N was involved in a car accident which  wasnt his fault.  He made  a claim on the motor 
insurance policy he held with esure. esure  inspected the car and its engineer said it would 
cost around £5,300 to repair. So it took the decision to declare the car a total write off. It 
offered Mr N £4,300  which it felt was a fair market value for the car.
Mr N said the amount it had offered wasnt enough to replace his car so esure  should  either  
repair it or pay him more.  He complained  to esure  and, unhappy with esures response,  
referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into things. He thought esure was entitled  to take the 
decision to write off the car, and he agreed  with esure that based  on motor trade guides, the 
amount it had offered was reasonable.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigator  and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.  
So its been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address each point  of Mr Ns complaint separately.
the decision to write-off the car
The terms of the policy allow  esure  to decide whether to repair or to write off the car and pay 
the current market value. This gives esure  a lot of discretion and Id expect it to exercise  this 
reasonably. I wouldnt  expect it to write a car off unless the repair  cost means this is the 
most sensible way forward. This has to be assessed on a case  by case basis and will 
depend on the type of car and the nature of the damage.  
In this case, esure has explained its decision to write off the car was based on the engineers 
reports of how much it would likely  cost to repair Mr Ns vehicle. And I think  the repair cost is 
likely to be more than the pre-accident market value  of the vehicle. Based on this, writing off 
the car would make  sense. I know Mr N disagrees  with the repair  cost, but he hasnt 
provided any evidence  to show this is wrong. He has asked us to inspect the car, but we 
arent mechanics or engineers. So we have to rely on expert reports   in this case  the one 
provided by esures  engineer. Ive seen  nothing to suggest this is unreasonable. So Im 
satisfied esure is entitled to declare  Mr Ns car a write-off.
Ref: DRN29864652the amount esure has offered Mr N to settle the claim based on the pre-accident value of his 
car
esures policy says in the event of a total loss claim the most it will pay is the market  value of 
the  car.  This is defined in the policy wording, which  applied at the time of Mr Ls claim as:
The market  value is the amount you could reasonably have expected  to sell your car for on 
the open market immediately  before your accident or loss. Our assessment of the value is 
based on cars of the same make  and model  and of a similar age, condition and mileage at 
the time of accident or loss. This value  is based  on research from motor trade guides 
including Glass's, Parkers  and CAP. This may not be the price you paid when you 
purchased the car
Mr N says he cant replace his car for the amount he has been offered. And Mr L is right to 
say he should  be able to actually replace his car in the retail market with the amount esure 
uses as the market value. We think the fairest way to decide  a market value is in the same  
way as esures terms do - to look at the main motor industry guides. They provide valuations 
based on national  research for likely selling prices  for the same make,  model, mileage and 
condition as the car thats been  damaged.  Having  checked these guides,  esures  settlement 
offer of £4,300 is around the mid-point of the guides. So  taking everything into account,  Im 
satisfied the market value esure has used is in line with the policy terms and reasonable. 
esure retaining Mr Ns car and deducting  its salvage  value
The policy terms say if the insured  car is a total loss (write-off) and it makes  a payment to 
Mr N, the car will become esures property. This is a common term and a general  principle  of 
insurance contracts,  so I think its reasonable. 
Mr N has suggested he should  be able to keep the car without esure making a deduction. 
But this isnt how it works. He has claimed  against his esure policy  and esure has offered to 
pay the claim in accordance with this. It can then reclaim  reasonable costs  by keeping  the 
car and selling it for salvage. So if it let Mr N keep the car and paid the claim, Mr N would 
end up with more  than the policy is required to pay him.  
my final decision
My final decision is esure  Insurance Limiteds  offer is fair and reasonable so I dont uphold  
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2986465