K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs representative, Mrs S, complains on his behalf that he was mis-sold an over 50s life 
insurance plan by Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited.  
In summary  she says Mr G was a vulnerable consumer at the time he agreed to take the 
policy. Shes concerned  if he keeps  the policy the total of the premiums he will pay is more  
than the policy will pay out, but if he cancels he will lose what  hes paid in. 
background
In February 2014,  Mr G took out a British  Seniors Guaranteed over 50s Life Insurance policy  
over the phone, with Scottish Friendly Assurance  Society Limited. The policy  provides 
whole-of-life cover  and will pay a fixed amount of £8,000 on his death,  provided he continues  
to pay the monthly  premium. It wont pay anything if he stops  paying  premiums early.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said there was no indication 
that Mr G was unable  to understand the nature  of the policy described to him, or that he was 
a vulnerable individual who could not make a reasoned choice. Mr G was advised that he 
could cancel the policy at any time but he would not receive back  any premiums paid after 
the initial 30 day cooling off period.  He was told the policy  had no cash value. So our 
investigator couldnt agree that the policy was mis-sold to Mr G and was persuaded Mr G 
fully understood  the policy terms and accepted it on that basis. 
Mrs S disagrees; saying she thinks Mr Gs been treated unfairly. She doesnt  think  the way 
the policies operate is fair and is concerned  about the wider implications for the public. And 
she believes  Mr G should be entitled to receive  back the money  hes paid over the years.  
She reiterated Mr Gs understanding was reduced  and that he was a vulnerable  consumer at 
the time he took the policy  so it should  never have been sold to him. She disagrees that 
Mr G understood the policy terms as he was unable to read any documentation sent to him.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not going to uphold  this 
complaint.
 
Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs S, but I wont be addressing every 
single point shes raised. Ive instead  concentrated on the issues I think  are central to the 
outcome of Mr Gs complaint.
Its important to understand policies like the one Mr G purchased are insurance  plans. They  
provide a guaranteed  payment on death,  whenever that occurs,  and charge a fixed premium 
thats payable  until a certain point in time. This means that in some  cases,  where the owner  
dies in the early years, the insurer pays out more than it takes in premiums.  But where the 
policyholder lives much longer, they end up paying  in more than the policies will ultimately  
pay out. 
Ref: DRN21370422Theres nothing inherently wrong with this. Its a basic  principle of insurance that some 
policyholders receive more than others  for a similar  premium. Thats how house or car 
insurance works for example. I can see why Mrs S is unhappy, but Im satisfied Mr Gs policy  
has operated as intended. Ive seen nothing to indicate Scottish  Friendly  has acted 
inappropriately or outside the defined policy terms.
Mr G called Scottish Friendly  in February 2014, enquiring about life insurance.  On the face 
of the evidence, Im satisfied Mr G wasnt given  advice to take the policy. It was sold on a 
non-advised basis. It was for him to assess whether the policy  was right for him. The policy 
was explained  to Mr G over the phone and I think the information given to him before  he 
accepted the policy  was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Mr G agreed that the relevant documentation  should be sent to him and from what Ive seen  
didnt mention he would be unable to read these or required an adjustment to be made. I 
have reviewed the explanatory product literature sent to him. Im satisfied this explained how 
the policy worked in clear  and understandable terms,  including that the policy will have no 
value if cancelled, and that the total premiums  could end up being more  than it pays  out. I 
note he was also given  cancellation rights, in case he changed his mind. Whilst I take on 
board Mrs Ss concerns about Mr Gs inability to read the literature,  it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable of me to say Scottish Friendly should have  acted on something it wasnt  aware  
of.  
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr G and I understand why he 
may now, with hindsight, question taking out the policy. But I dont think  Scottish  Friendly 
has done anything  wrong. 
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  the policy has operated as it should  have and I 
dont think theres enough  for me to say Mr G was misled about  how it would work. Im 
satisfied Scottish Friendly Assurance  Society Limited explained how it worked and has 
operated it according  to the terms and conditions.  I dont agree its treated Mr G unfairly. The 
policy conditions dont  allow for the premiums  to be returned if the policy is cancelled so I 
dont think I can reasonably tell Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limited to offer Mr G 
something its not required to.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2137042