K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy with the time taken for Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management  Limited 
(HL) to process  her request to withdraw  cash/sale  proceeds from her Fund & Share 
account with them.
background
On 24 October 2018, Miss K contacted HL to enquire about  the process of closing her Fund  
& Share  account  and withdrawing her total investment of around £150,000. HL told Miss K 
they would  need to arrange for the fund to be sold and settled  prior to sending her payment. 
They said there would be a four day settlement period.
Miss K called back later that day instructing HL to sell her managed fund. Miss K asked HL 
to send the payment to a different account. HL agreed but said they needed  to send her an 
activation code  by post  in order to validate the new bank account  details.  Miss K was told 
shed need to call them back  once she received the code but she could do this and arrange 
the transfer on the same day.
On 1 November  Miss K called HL with the activation  code. HL said the code was incorrect 
and realised theyd  sent her two activation  codes  in error and the one she was using was 
invalid. Miss K was concerned because she said she needed the funds that day in order to 
repay her mortgage, HL said theyd call her back.  
HL called Miss K an hour later but didnt get the chance to speak  to her. They sent her a 
secure message  shortly after this call attempt to tell her the new bank details had been 
validated. HL asked  Miss K to call them back before  12pm to arrange  a payment the same 
day, if she called after 12pm the payment would be processed the next day. 
Miss K called HL after 12pm and after some discussion, they agreed  to make the full 
payment that day and explained the money  would be with her by close  of business. Miss K 
called to chase  this payment and HL reiterated it would be in her account by close of 
business. Miss K called again after 5pm explaining  she would incur a charge because  her 
bank would only issue her mortgage  payment the next day  HL said theyd refund the 
charge.
Miss K called HL the following day to complain, HL offered  £200  to recognise the poor 
customer service.  During the call she said she needed to make two transactions on 1 
November, one for her mortgage payment and another for an investment which  included  a 
1% cash  back  deal,  which shed  now lost out on. HL requested evidence of the deal but said 
they would  honour  the cash back she wouldve received and increased their compensation 
offer to £656.16  in full and final settlement of her complaint. 
Miss K called HL a week later to clarify the offer she lost out on was 2% cash  back  not 1% 
and provided evidence. The evidence showed the offer was valid until 31 October 2018. 
After reviewing their calls, HL found  that theyd  told Miss K the earliest she could withdraw  
her funds was on 31 October  2018.  So they were  satisfied Miss K couldve got her funds 
sooner, if she would have called  them.
HL said Miss K wouldve never qualified for this offer, regardless of their actions, as she 
didnt call them until 1 November 2018.  HL explained the offer of 1% cashback was still 
Ref: DRN27650212available to Miss K if she wanted it. They accepted they sent two codes  in error but felt 
theyd gone out of their way to ensure Miss K got her money as quickly  as possible.  
Miss Ks main  point  of contention  was that HL didnt  make it clear she could access her 
funds on 31 October 2018 so she referred  her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  felt HLs offer was fair and reasonable. He didnt  think  they misled 
Miss K about when  she could access her money and arranged to send Miss K a copy  of her 
call with HL. He highlighted the cashback offer had expired by the time Miss K called HL and 
they couldnt control her banks cut off times  for sending her mortgage payment. 
Miss K asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Miss K also reviewed the call 
and highlighted  HL told her the funds  would be settled in her nominated  account  by 31 
October 2018. She then stated she wouldnt get access to her funds until 1 November 2018 
and HL said that was correct. 
HL maintained their position and said their daily withdrawal limit was £99,000 which  further 
emphasised their willingness to help Miss K as her transfer was over this limit.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be telling HL to 
do anything more here and Ill explain why.
Miss Ks experience in withdrawing her funds wasnt as smooth as it couldve been  and HL 
accepts this. They sent her two validation codes, so it meant that when Miss K called HL on 
1 November 2018, she couldnt  get hold of her money straight away. Ive seen that HL still 
arranged for her payment to be made the same  day, which I think was the right thing to do.
I dont think HL are responsible for Miss Ks bank not processing her mortgage payment until 
the following  day. I say this because HL told her the money would be in her account  by close 
of business and it was. If Miss Ks bank couldnt make the transfer the same day, thats  not 
something I can hold HL responsible for as they did what they told Miss K theyd do.
HL said they went over their daily withdrawal  limit of £99,000 to help Miss K, I didnt find that 
this had been brought to Miss Ks attention before. So I wouldve expected  HL to facilitate 
Miss Ks entire payment  instruction when she called  them.
I realise Miss Ks main point of contention is the information and lack of clarification given  to 
her in the call of 24 October 2018.  Ive listened to that call. HL said on two occasions  that 
Miss Ks funds would  be in her nominated account on 31 October 2018. 
However, I agree there was some  ambiguity  because when Miss K stated  she wouldnt be 
able to get her money until 1 November, HL said that was correct. 
But, I dont see that Miss K made  her intentions clear with HL. I think if she needed the funds 
by a certain date,  it wouldve been  reasonable for her to have had that discussion with HL 
before hand. 
Taking into consideration the steps  HL took to facilitate her payment on 1 November, its 
likely they wouldve gone outside their normal processes  to help Miss K. In any event,  Miss 
K didnt  call HL until 1 November, which meant her cash  back offer had already expired  and 
Ref: DRN27650213there wasnt a lot HL could do. Thats because Miss K would have always needed to call 
them to validate  her new bank account instruction.  
While I agree there was some ambiguity in the call of 24 October, I think HL made  it 
sufficiently clear that Miss Ks funds would  be in her nominated account on 31 October. 
Which is all I can reasonably have expected them to do  given that this appeared to be a 
normal withdrawal request and HL were acting in accordance with their normal processes.
HL has agreed to honour the 1% cash back offer Miss K initially told them she lost out on in 
recognition of the overall service she received. I appreciate Miss K later realised this was 2% 
but Im not persuaded that HL should  pay the additional loss for the reasons Ive given 
above. HL did contribute  to some of the confusion that led to this loss and the customer 
service couldve been better so HLs offer to honour half of the cash back  offer Miss K lost 
out on as a way to settle everything  that went wrong  is fair and reasonable. If Miss K would 
like HL to pay this settlement, she should  get in touch  with them directly. 
I dont underestimate  the stress this matter wouldve caused  Miss K. But I cant agree that 
HL were completely  responsible for that stress  given that she only made  them aware  of 
her plans when  it was too late for them to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint because  I think Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited has done enough  to put things  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2765021