K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Lloyds Bank  plc recorded  a marker against his name  with CIFAS, one 
of the UKs fraud alert services, after he told the bank that he didnt apply for a credit  card.  
This has caused him lots of difficulties.
background
Mr R says that he spoke  to his bank in February 2018 about a possible loan or increasing his 
credit card limit. He decided  not to go ahead with either. A few days later he received a letter  
from Lloyds to confirm  that a direct debit had been set up on his account for repayments  to a 
credit card. He told Lloyds  that he hadnt applied for the card.  Lloyds then placed a CIFAS  
marker against his name. He says that this marker  has caused him to have loans declined, 
transactions refused and it has stopped him getting car insurance.
Lloyds says that when Mr R told it that he didnt  apply for a credit card,  it immediately 
cancelled the account. The card hadnt  been used.  It also reported the application fraud to 
CIFAS and removed any reference  to the card from Mr Rs credit file. It has told Mr R that 
the marker  with CIFAS is for his protection to alert other organisations that another  person 
had tried to use Mr Rs details. It accepts that it wrongly told Mr R that he wouldnt be able to 
apply for credit whilst  the marker was recorded and has offered to pay £150  for the upset 
and inconvenience  Mr R experienced because  of this.
Our investigator thought Lloyds offer to pay £150  was fair and reasonable. He said that the 
CIFAS marker  was to prevent Mr Rs details  from being used by a third party  and not 
because Mr R had been accused of fraud.
Mr R didnt think £150 was enough.  He said that Lloyds hadnt made the offer to him in 
writing and the CIFAS  marker was having a detrimental affect  on him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr R feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to both us and Lloyds. And thats  not surprising. It must be very upsetting  to find you 
have been the victim of fraud  by somebody  impersonating you and trying to take out a credit 
card in your name. So Mr R is bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr R that I agree with the investigators view.  As soon as Mr R 
told Lloyds that he hadnt applied for a credit  card I find it took immediate action to put things 
right. It cancelled the card and removed the searches relating to the card from Mr Rs credit 
record. So Im satisfied  that Mr R hasnt suffered any financial loss because of the card.
Lloyds also reported  the impersonation to a fraud prevention agency.  This action is taken  to 
help prevent a third party trying to take out credit  in Mr Rs name  again.  The marker remains  
in place for 13 months. As the fraudulent application was in March 2018 the marker will now 
have been lifted. 
Mr R considers that the marker has caused him a number  of problems, including  being  
declined for credit, insurance and having  transactions refused. But I havent seen any 
Ref: DRN27198052evidence to support  this. As Ive said, the marker was simply there  to protect  Mr R and would 
not have any negative impact on his ability to get credit. Whilst I cant  say why Mr R has 
experienced the problems  he says he has had, Im not persuaded that these relate  to the 
CIFAS marker.
Lloyds has accepted that it made a mistake  when it told Mr R that he wouldnt be able to 
apply for lending whilst the marker  was there. I think it is more  likely than not this was 
because there was some confusion about  the type of marker  applied  to Mr Rs name. But 
Lloyds has offered to pay Mr R £150 for the upset this caused  him. Whilst Mr R says that 
Lloyds didnt make  the offer to him in writing  I see that it wrote to him in May 2019  to 
apologise for its mistake  and offered  £150.
Mr R has said that Lloyds  told him the marker would only be against his name for two 
months. I have seen from a letter that Lloyds sent to Mr R in June 2019 that it told Mr R that 
it would  remove the credit searches from his credit file and this would take up to 60 days 
(which is about 2 months).  It also said that his name would  be linked to CIFAS for 13 
months. So I dont consider that Lloyds has made any mistake here.
I accept that Lloyds did cause upset to Mr R and some inconvenience by giving him wrong  
information. It has already  offered to pay him £150 for this. Having carefully  considered 
everything that has happened, Im satisfied  that this is fair and reasonable. I simply leave it 
to Mr R to decide whether, upon reflection, he now would like to accept the offer and to let 
Lloyds know directly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2719805