K821x#15Complaint
Mr T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and twenty-six  high-cost short  
term credit  instalment loans that Sunny provided  to Mr T between  August 2014 and 
September 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ts complaint and thought that he shouldnt  have been provided 
with instalment loans  1 to 7 and 13 to 26. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed  to 
me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr T could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr T, I think  that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mr T was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the respective times it provided Mr T with instalment loans 1 and 13. 
I say this because  Sunny initially transitioned  Mr T from a facility  which  its own product 
literature said shouldnt  be used  for extended periods to a series of instalment loans which  
Ref: DRN27028492had the same effect. Mr T then went on to exhibit a borrowing pattern of taking out further  
loans not too long after repaying previous ones. 
As our adjudicator pointed out there was a break  in borrowing between instalment loan 7 
being repaid and instalment loan 8 being taken.  But by loan 13 Mr T was once again 
displaying a pattern  consistent with someone  who may have been  in financial difficulty rather 
than to cover  a short term need.
Sunny continued  lending  to Mr T even when this pattern was repeated  and in circumstances  
where it ought reasonably to have realised  that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him. 
Mr T had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided  him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr T paid on instalment loans 1 to 7 and 13 to 26;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
any adverse information about instalment loans 1 to 4 should be removed from       
Mr Ts credit file. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded  
about instalment  loans 5 to 7 and 13 to 26 is adverse. So all reference  to these loans 
should be removed  from Mr Ts credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ts complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr T compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2702849