K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a wardrobe and a cupboard unit, that he bought with credit  provided by 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited, are faulty. Mr C brings his complaint under section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
Mr C obtained the wardrobe and cupboard unit in January 2017. He says:
The items are damaged.
The unit is bowing.
The finish isnt as advertised  the black gloss finish is only on the doors, not 
throughout.
The screws supplied  werent long enough  which caused difficulty assembling and 
fitting the items.
Shop Direct says that, because  Mr C complained after its 28 day home  approval 
guarantee, it couldnt offer him a refund. It also noted from the photos Mr C supplied that the 
wardrobe had been altered (it had been cut to install a speaker system). It offered him a 10% 
discount on the wardrobe as a gesture of goodwill.  It explained the items were  still covered 
under the manufacturers warranty and that it could arrange an inspection. But Mr C declined  
because he said he couldnt afford  to pay for an inspection.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He couldnt conclude  
 in the absence of an independent report  that the items were faulty when they were 
supplied.
Mr C didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
The units  were bowed;  the back support has been fitted.
Bolts  had to be used  to fit the units because the screws supplied werent the right 
length.
He told Shop Direct he couldnt  afford £45 for the cost of an independent report  and 
asked if this could be added  as a buy now pay later item.  He wasnt  told he wouldnt 
have to pay for the report if it concluded  there was a manufacturing fault.
He was only offered a 10% discount  on the wardrobe, not the units.
He cut a speaker  system into the side of one of the wardrobes to hide the damage.
The units  arent glossy all over.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I have 
reached much the same conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN21824012Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), 
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr C brings his complaint  under section 75 of the CCA. This says if a borrower like Mr C has 
a claim for breach of contract  against a supplier  he can also bring  that claim against the 
lender, in certain circumstances. For me to uphold this complaint I must  be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract by the supplier. 
And consumers have a short term" right to reject  goods, under  the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015, if a fault is found within 30 days of receipt. So, Ive considered all of the evidence here 
to decide if its more likely than not Mr Cs items were faulty when they were  supplied. 
Mr C says there has been a breach of contract because the wardrobe and cupboard unit 
werent of satisfactory  quality when he got them and Shop Direct  wont take the items  back.
Mr C didnt complain within 30 days of receiving  the items. When  he complained he said 
hed found, when he unpacked  the items,  that they were damaged. At various times hes 
mentioned damage  to the doors and drawers and, from the photographs Ive seen (taken 
after the items had been fitted), it does look like one of the wardrobe doors  is damaged. 
But Mr C arranged for the items to be assembled and fitted  because  hed paid a friend to do 
this. Unfortunately, because the items  have  been  fitted, I dont think its possible to say 
whether any damage  was there  when the items were supplied. Its just as likely that this 
damage was caused during fitting  of the items. 
Mr C said there were  difficulties fitting the overhead unit because the wrong screws were 
supplied and he now says the unit is bowing. In the absence of an independent  report, 
I cant conclude whether the units were fitted  in accordance with the instructions. Based  on 
the evidence I do have, Im not persuaded that the goods werent  of satisfactory quality  when 
they were supplied.
Shop Direct offered  to arrange an independent report. From its records, I can see that it told 
Mr C:
If the Inspector advises us that it is not a manufacturing fault there may be a charge of £45 
debited to your account to cover any costs we have  incurred offering this service.
So I think it was made reasonably clear that Mr C would only have to pay for the inspection if 
a manufacturing  fault wasnt found.  And I think this was fair. I dont find there was any 
obligation on Shop  Direct  to allow Mr C to pay this charge  on a buy now pay later basis.
Mr C also complains that the units werent  as described. Again, in the absence  of an 
independent report, Im not persuaded that the items were misrepresented by Shop Direct.
As a gesture  of goodwill, Shop Direct  offered Mr C a 10% discount on the wardrobe. It 
applied this to his account. As I havent concluded that theres  been  a breach of contract, 
I dont require Shop Direct to do anything else.
Ref: DRN21824013my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2182401