K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Paragon Finance Plc, trading  as Idem  Servicing (Idem), shouldnt be 
chasing her for a debt because she thinks its unenforceable in court. Shes also unhappy 
theyve placed  a default on her credit file.
background
Mrs Ls credit card debt was bought by Idem in 2012. She was making payments through  a 
debt management  plan (DMP), through a debt management company (DMC),  until 2017 
when the DMC ceased trading. 
In May 2017  she contacted Idem through a solicitors  who had taken over responsibility  for 
the DMCs accounts;  Ill call them company F. She asked for a copy  of the original finance 
agreement. She said without this the debt wasnt enforceable.
No payments were  made towards the debt whilst F disputed its enforceability  and Idem  
stopped its collection  process during this time. But in 2018, having received  no further 
payments, Idem  sent Mrs L a default letter and reported the default  to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mrs L says they shouldnt have done  this as theyd confirmed that without the original  credit  
agreement the debt was unenforceable. 
Idem agreed that the debt wasnt currently enforceable but they didnt think  that meant  they 
should release  Mrs L from her obligations  and it shouldnt prevent them  trying  to set up an 
arrangement to pay with her.
So Mrs L referred her complaint to this service.   Our  investigator explained that this service 
couldnt decide whether  a loan was enforceable;  that was for the courts to do. But she could 
decide whether  Idem  were  being  fair and reasonable  when  defaulting the account and as no 
payments had been made to the account  for some time she thought Idem had fairly 
defaulted it. And in those  circumstances  they had to report the default to the credit  reference 
agencies. So she didnt think Idem had done  anything wrong.
But Mrs L did and she therefore  asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN26006622This service isnt able to decide whether a debt is enforceable. Thats  for the courts to 
decide.
So Ive thought about whether Idem have been  fair in reporting the default. They were 
assigned the debt in 2012 and have provided  a notice of assignment  so it seems most likely  
this is Mrs Ls original  credit card debt. Theyve  not received any payments towards the debt 
since March 2017  and have been writing regularly to Mrs L to tell her about the arrears on 
the account. So I think its fair a reasonable for them  to raise a default  in those 
circumstances and they therefore need to report that default to the credit reference  
agencies.
I therefore dont  think Idem  have done  anything wrong  here and Ill not be asking them to 
take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2600662