K821x#15complaint
Mrs A has complained that she had trouble using her bank account  with TSB Bank plc for 
around three  months.
background
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology (IT)  system.
Mrs A has told us that she usually logs on to her online banking  with TSB once or twice  a 
month. But its system issues left her without access to her online banking for about  three  
months. So she couldnt perform general  banking tasks such  as making payments and 
setting up standing orders online.  And she wasnt able to link to her daughters school 
account to pay her dinner money.
Mrs A has said she had to use other  accounts by moving money around,  and this was 
frustrating and annoying.
Shes also said she had to call TSB five times  and the calls cost her around £40.
Our investigator thought that TSB should pay Mrs A £40 to cover the cost of the telephone 
calls she made, and £150 for the trouble and upset it caused  her. Mrs A was happy  to 
accept the £40 for her telephone calls, but she didnt  think £150 was enough compensation. 
So the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed  that TSBs system issues meant  Mrs A experienced problems with her bank 
account. So I need to decide  what TSB should  do to put things right for her.
TSB has offered to reimburse Mrs A for the telephone calls she made, and I think this is fair.
Mrs A has explained that she usually accesses  her TSB bank account online once or twice a 
month. And I can appreciate that not being able to use her online banking  for three months  
would have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mrs A. But shes said she used other 
accounts during  that time, and it doesnt  seem  that she was left without money  or couldnt  
make any payments. 
Taking everything into account,  I think that an award of £150  is a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation for the trouble and upset  TSB caused Mrs A.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If it hasnt  done  so already, TSB Bank  plc should pay Mrs A £40 to cover the cost of her 
telephone calls and £150 for the trouble and upset  it caused her.
Ref: DRN27419012Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2741901