K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about a charge of £366.97  that shes received from SGM - Foreign 
Exchange Limited  in relation to a foreign exchange  transaction.
background 
Mrs S made an enquiry to SGM by e-mail as she wanted to transfer about £10,500 
overseas. SGM phoned her in October 2018  about the foreign  exchange  transaction.  During 
the phone  call SGM booked currency with a value of £10,559.27. But Mrs S decided not to 
go ahead  with the transfer so SGM charged  her £366.97 for closing out the loss. She 
complained to SGM but wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mrs S had 
agreed to the transaction so SGM had bought the currency on her behalf. And he said that, 
under its terms and conditions, SGM had to close out the trade  and suffered a loss of 
£366.97 for which Mrs S was liable. So he was unable to say that SGM had done anything 
wrong and it was within its rights to present  her with an invoice for the loss incurred.
Mrs S has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
she enquired  about  a specific  exchange amount and was unaware  that the deal 
would be done before she transferred the payment or gave firm instructions to 
proceed  and she was merely  seeking a quote  for the cost of the exchange;
at no point did SGM seek to obtain  her authority  to make the purchase or talk about 
any form of binding  agreement or contract;
she said that she was awaiting  a reply from one person  which indicated that she 
wasn't giving  any firm instruction or commitment; and
SGM didnt seek a clear mandate to proceed and nor was there  was any email  
subsequent to the conversation seeking her authority to make the exchange and she 
doesnt recall receiving any notice of intent to make the transfer.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs S and to SGM on 28 May 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Ive listened to the recording of the phone call that SGM made to Mrs S in October 
2018 and Ive also reviewed the transcript of that call that has been prepared by 
SGM. Mrs S and SGM were clearly discussing a foreign exchange transaction and 
SGM did confirm a foreign  exchange amount equivalent to £10,559.27. 
But I consider it to be clear from the call that this was an enquiry about a potential  
transaction by Mrs S and that it wasnt  her intention to enter into a binding  contract at 
that time.  When the foreign  exchange amount was confirmed to Mrs S she said: I'll 
sort it out later today. I am just awaiting a reply from one person. And when SGM 
said that: We'll get that booked through , there was no explanation to Mrs S of what  
that meant  or that, at that point, SGM was entering into a foreign exchange 
transaction for which  Mrs S was liable.  And Mrs S didnt  provide any details of the 
beneficiary (other than it was her son) and didnt provide any payment details. Nor 
did SGM explain to Mrs S that she would be liable for any closing out loss if she 
didnt proceed  with the transaction.
Ref: DRN27486192I consider it to be more  likely than not that had SGM properly explained  to Mrs S that 
it was booking currency, and that she would be responsible  for paying for it, that 
shed have told it that she wasnt ready  to proceed  with the transaction.  Although  
Mrs S says that shed  used SGM before, I consider  it to be clear from the call that 
Mrs S wasnt  experienced in making  foreign exchange payments of this nature (and 
its also clear that SGMs representative  was also inexperienced   he said that it was 
only his second  day handling calls). 
As Mrs S wasnt experienced in making  such payments, I consider that there was a 
greater responsibility  on SGM  to properly explain the process  to Mrs S. It didnt  do so 
 and I dont consider it to be fair or reasonable that Mrs S should be liable for the 
cost of closing  out the trade  in these circumstances. So I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for SGM to cancel the charge of £366.97  that its made to Mrs S.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs S or SGM, my provisional  decision was that 
I was minded to uphold  this complaint.
SGM has responded to my provisional decision in detail and says, in summary, that:
Mrs S has been a client of SGM since September 2015 and traded with it five times 
between then and October 2017;
she was onboarded  in 2015  and her then account manager explained in detail the 
process and each party's responsibilities  which  is its standard procedure;
she initiated contact  with SGM via e-mail in October 2018 and this was followed up 
with a call from SGM to confirm an exchange rate which  clearly states her 
acceptance and intention to complete a currency exchange;
its provided a call recording from October  2018 in which she says:  "I've done this 
before so I know what I'm doing";
it doesnt require  beneficiary details at the time of booking the trade;
her wording indicates that she was making a trade;
when she was told that SGM would book the trade she didn't say: No I need  to think  
about it;
she didnt request a rough amount that her beneficiary would receive but wanted to 
know the exact amount that hed receive;
she said that shed  send the funds  over: "Probably  later on today "  which  shows  that 
the trade was to be completed;
when she was sent the contract note she didnt  say that she didn't agree on booking 
the trade but said that she wasnt proceeding with the trade;
SGM clearly  declared that: "We'll get that booked through.  If you can send me the 
name of the beneficiary and account details"; to which Mrs S replied: "Ok. Thanks  
very much for the call;
she later said that she: "can't do it now;" and only said:  "I never actually signed to 
say Id do it" after being informed that there  would be a cost for closing out the trade 
and a loss being  incurred  but she wouldve known that there wouldnt be any 
documentation that she needed  to sign; and
an explanation  of the process wouldnt have been necessary because this wasnt  
Mrs S's first trade and she was aware that the liability would fall on her if she failed to 
deliver the required funds to SGM in order to complete the trade as thats clearly 
outlined in its terms and conditions  which she signed in 2015.
my findings
Ref: DRN27486193Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This is a very finely balanced complaint 
with what I consider to be inconclusive  and contradictory evidence  provided by the parties  
and much of it relying on an interpretation of what was said during a phone  call. So Ive 
reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words,  what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.  
I have carefully considered SGMs detailed response to my provisional decision and it makes  
persuasive arguments in support of its position.  But having considered all of the evidence,  
Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. 
SGM says that Mrs S had made transactions before so knew the process  and said that shed 
done it before and knew what  she was doing.  But listening to the call and reading the 
transcript of it, I dont  consider that she comes across as an experienced customer  she 
seems to me to be hesitant, uncertain and unclear of what  she wants to do and how to do it.
Shes not certain about the amount that shes transferring  and rather  than wanting to know  
an exact amount  as claimed by SGM she refers  to an amount as being:  eighteen 
thousand, eight  hundred, rather than the exact amount that was quoted by SGM. She 
asks about how much SGM charges and when asked about when SGM will receive the 
money she says: Well  I can do it, probably  later on today; and: Ive just got to check  one 
thing, and then I can do it later on today. When SGM says: So, just to clarify, so you want  
to buy 18,858.39 [currency deleted] and that is in exchange for £10,505, sorry, 10,559.97 
GBP, Mrs S says:  Ill sort it out later today. I am just awaiting a reply  from one person. And 
at the end of the call Mrs S asks if theres anything else and SGM replies: Well  get that 
booked through.  If you can just send me the name of the beneficiary and the account details 
 we will have it all sorted for you.
Its my interpretation of Mrs Ss words that she wasnt ready to make a transaction  and that it 
wasnt her intention to do so. I consider that her words are consistent  with an enquiry  about 
a transaction  and Im not persuaded that they were an instruction to SGM to proceed with 
a transaction.  
I consider it to be clear  from Mrs Ss later actions that she didnt  consider  that shed booked  
a transaction or that she had any liability to SGM. I consider her actions to be more 
consistent with someone  who had made an enquiry about a potential  future  transaction and 
then decided not to go ahead with it.
Im not persuaded that SGM did enough  to confirm with Mrs S that she wanted it to book a 
transaction and that she understood the consequences of that  in particular that she would  
be liable  to SGM for any loss that it incurred if she didnt want  to go ahead  with the 
transaction. So I dont  consider it to be fair or reasonable that Mrs S should be liable for the 
cost of closing  out the trade  in these circumstances. And I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for SGM to cancel  the charge of £366.97 that its made to 
Mrs S.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. And I order 
SGM - Foreign  Exchange  Limited to cancel the charge of £366.97 that its made to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN27486194Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2748619