K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan that Mr K holds with Blemain Finance Limited.  Hes 
unhappy that extra fees and charges  have  been added to his account. This means that 
despite having made payments of around £18,000  since the loan started in 2007, he still 
owes more than he borrowed.
background
As a starting point,  our rules only allow us to look at charges applied during the six-year 
period leading up to the date the complaint  started.  There are provisions  for us to look 
further back in exceptional  circumstances, but those dont apply here.  In Mr Ks case,  the 
complaint started  in February 2019, so that meant  we could look at charges applied  from 
February 2013 onwards.
Blemain applied four charges during that period; three of £46 and one of £48. These were 
levied in the month following one where  Mr K hadnt  made a payment. Our investigator 
concluded that the charges were  permitted under the terms of the mortgage  generally. As 
the four charges had been applied fairly, he didnt recommend they be refunded.  Mr K asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting position is that lenders  generally  are permitted under the mortgage terms to 
apply fees and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage  account that 
is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  One situation  where  we 
generally find that arrears  fees or charges  havent been applied  fairly is if the customer has 
paid either  the contractual payment or a different amount agreed as part of a payment 
arrangement. 
Blemain has only applied  four charges to Mr Ks loan account during the period we are able 
to look into. And having considered them, I agree  with the investigator that none were 
applied unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against Blemain Finance Limited.  My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ref: DRN27925202ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792520