K820x#14The complaint
Miss J complains  that she was mis-sold a training course, financed with a fixed sum loan 
provided by Premier Training International Limited  (PTI).
What happened 
In May 2018  Miss J took a fixed sum loan with PTI to finance a fitness  training course, that it 
supplied. She said the course had been mis-sold  to her as a 12-week course, she 
experienced problems uploading her video assessments, there were delays receiving her 
equipment and she experienced customer service issues. Miss J stopped making payments  
towards her agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020 which said the following:
breach of contract
Miss J complains  that PTIs online portal was not fit for purpose  as it did not support the 
large video  files required to submit  the video assessments.  She said she had ongoing 
problems uploading  videos  for months  and explained that this caused  significant delays.
PTI accepts there was a problem with its online portal, however it says the impact  was 
minimal as it gave Miss J alternative options  to submit her video assessments, so this was 
resolved quickly.
 
I can see Miss J got in touch with PTI about  the issues with the online portal on 5 June 2018.  
PTI contacted Miss J the next day to give advice  on alternative ways to upload large files, 
including using free upload services.  PTI has not provided any contact  notes, but an email 
chain provided  by Miss J shows she was still reporting problems submitting her video 
assessments via file uploading services  in August 2018. Based on what Miss J has told us 
and the email chain,  I am satisfied that Miss J had ongoing problems with uploading her 
video assessments and this was not resolved within 24 hours as PTI has indicated. Looking  
at the terms and conditions of the course PTI is responsible for issues  with the delivery  of 
the online course, and I think the delays caused to Miss J amounts to a breach of contract, 
so Ive considered  below how PTI needs to put things right. 
Miss J also complains about the delay in receiving equipment from her starter  kit. PTI 
explained that a third party is responsible for the kit and its delivery, it only provides the 
voucher for the starter  kit to its students. So, Im unable to hold PTI responsible for the 
delivery issues she experienced  with the starter  kit. If Miss J has not already, she may wish 
to raise this with the third-party business. 
Miss J is unhappy PTI has withheld her certificate. Miss J stopped making  payments towards 
her finance  agreement. Ive checked the terms and conditions of Miss Js course. Under  the 
late payments section 4.4 it notes PTI can withhold the release of examination  results  if any 
course payments  are not made. So, I dont think PTI has made a mistake in not releasing  
Miss Js certificate.
mis-sale of the course
Miss J says that PTI misrepresented the course to her. She says that at the time she found  
similar fitness courses with other  providers  that were cheaper, but she booked the course 
Ref: DRN25100872with PTI because the sales person led her to believe she was undertaking a 12-week 
intensive course. Miss J says that during the sales call she made it clear it was important to 
complete the course within 12 weeks because she had only budgeted  for this period. Miss J 
explained that it took nearly six months  to complete the course. 
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement  of fact that causes the consumer to go ahead 
with the contract. PTI has not provided  the sales call, but I can see from its final response  
that it accepts the sales advisor should have  been clearer  about 12-weeks only being  an 
approximate timeframe and says the advisor  should  have  explained  that she had up to year 
to complete the course. Miss J has been  consistent  in her correspondence  about being told 
she was undertaking  a 12-week course. And PTI has not disputed what  Miss J has said. 
Miss J explained she would have taken a course with a different provider if shed  been  given 
the correct information about  the course. In the circumstances, I think Miss J was mis-
informed about  the course  length and I think it is more  likely than not that she would not 
have booked the course if she had been  given the correct information.  So, I think  the course 
was misrepresented to Miss J and Ive considered below how PTI should  put this right.  
service issues
Miss J complains  that when she contacted PTI about the problems she was having, she was 
promised call backs that did not happen.  In particular,  she complains a PTI advisor was rude 
to her during a call in November 2018. PTI has not provided this call recording, nor its call 
notes, but I can see from the emails  Miss J sent PTI that she raised these issues at the time. 
In addition, PTI apologised  in its final response for the misunderstanding with the advisor. 
On balance, I think it is more likely  than not that Miss J did experience some customer 
service issues  and I think Miss J should  be paid compensation to reflect this. 
putting things  right:
I think Miss J was caused frustration and inconvenience by the level of service she 
experienced. In the circumstances I think PTI should  pay Miss J £100 compensation to 
reflect this. 
PTI offered  Miss J an additional course in respect of the problem she had with uploading 
video assessments. As I understand it Miss J did not take up this offer.  On the balance  I 
think there was a breach of contract and misrepresentation, so I think  PTI needs to do more 
to put things right. 
I understand that Miss J stopped making payments towards her finance agreement  and she 
does not think  she should be asked to pay anything further. However, in deciding  what  is fair 
and reasonable I must take into account  that Miss J did manage to complete the course, she 
benefited from the course materials  and has gained a fitness qualification.  In the 
circumstances I dont  think  it would  be fair for Miss J to have nothing  further  to pay.
Taking everything into account  I think it would be fair for Miss J to get a 30% reduction from 
the course fee stated in her finance agreement  as £2499. There  is no specific  formula  
when calculating what the reduction should be, but I think this is fair in the circumstances. 
So, the total amount Miss J can be asked to pay back is £1749.30. It is my understanding  
Miss J stopped payments towards her finance agreement,  but if she has paid more than 
£1749.30 PTI should treat this as an overpayment and refund  any overpayment to Miss J, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN25100873What Ive decided  and why
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I outlined in my provisional  decision why I 
thought this complaint should  be upheld (see extract above). Both parties had the 
opportunity to respond. Neither party has provided  any additional evidence or comments, 
and I see no reason to depart from what I concluded  in my provisional decision, so Im partly 
upholding this complaint for the same  reasons outlined in the provisional  decision.  
Putting things  right 
To put things right, PTI should do what I outlined in my provisional decision  see extract 
above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and I instruct  Premier Training 
International Limited to:
pay Miss J £100 compensation to reflect the customer service issues experienced
ensure Miss J pays no more than £1749.30  under  the finance agreement. When this 
is paid it should  record the loan as fully satisfied on her credit file. If Miss J has paid 
more than this amount,  any overpayments should be refunded to her, adding 8% 
simple interest*
*If PTI considers tax should be deducted from any interest element of my award  it should  
provide Miss J with a certificate showing how much  it has taken off, so she can reclaim  this 
is from HM Revenue  and Customs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 August 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2510087