K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent money  to him that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S entered into four loans with Lending  Stream. The first was in February 2014 and was 
for £100 repayable over two instalments.  The following  three loans were provided  in 
November 2017,  December 2017  and January  2018. These  were  for £810, £810 and £830 
respectively and each  was repayable  over six monthly instalments.
Mr S says that at the time of the loans  he had other  debts and was not able to maintain all 
his repayments  on these. He says he had to take out back to back  loans, paying  one loan by 
borrowing from elsewhere.  He also says his income  was very low compared  to his debts.
Lending Stream did not uphold Mr S complaint.
Our adjudicator thought that the checks carried out before the first three loans were provided 
were proportionate. She thought that further  checks should have been carried out before  the 
fourth loan was provided to ensure Mr S was not becoming reliant  on short term borrowing. 
However she said that if checks about Mr S short term lending commitments had been  
carried out the loan would  have  appeared affordable. Based on this she did not uphold this 
complaint.
Mr S did not agree  with our investigators view. He said that she had noted  insufficient 
checks took place  before the fourth loan was provided. At the time of this loan he said he 
was struggling with many other debts and taking  out loans to meet  his normal  living 
expenses. He said his income  at the time was under £400  and so he couldnt  afford  all his 
repayments. He said the lending was irresponsible as his outgoings were more than his 
income.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
it was reasonable  that Lending Stream relied on the income information Mr S provided;
the checks carried out before the first loan was provided were sufficient;
the second loan formed part of a new lending chain  and the checks  carried  out before 
this loan was provided were  sufficient;
before  the next loan was provided Mr S income  and expenses  were gathered. It was 
reasonable that the income information  was relied on. The expenses provided were  very 
low but Lending  Stream used a higher figure  in its assessment. I thought  the checks  
before this loan was provided were sufficient;
before  the final loan was provided further  checks should have taken place. Mr S had 
been providing low expenses numbers and at this point I thought further checks  should  
have been carried  out to ensure all of Mr S expenses  were being captured.  Had further 
Ref: DRN22815652checks been carried out at this stage  I thought  Lending Stream  would have  realised that 
this loan wasnt sustainably affordable  for Mr S.
I upheld this complaint  in regard to the loan provided  in January 2018.
Lending Stream agreed with my provisional decision and made an offer to Mr S to reflect 
this. Mr S accepted the offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr S, Lending  Stream had to make  sure each time that he could 
afford to repay the loans. Affordability  checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  
depends on things  like - but not limited to - the size of the loan, the repayments, what  
Lending Stream knew about Mr S, and the things he told it about  his circumstances.
In this case I think the checks carried out before  the first three loans  were  provided were 
sufficient. However further checks should have taken place before the final loan was 
provided. Had these  happened I think that Lending Stream would have realised that this loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable. Because of this I uphold this complaint  in regard to the loan 
provided in January 2018.
my final decision
My final decision is that Gain Credit LLC should,  as it has agreed:
1.refund  Mr S all interest  and charges paid on the loan taken out in January 2018 along 
with 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment  to the date of settlement*; and
2.remove any negative information  about this loan from Mr S credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. Gain 
Credit LLC must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2281565