K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains that Nationwide  Building Society  didnt sign a bankers draft which ultimately  
led to him losing his employment.
background 
Mr O asked Nationwide for a bankers draft to pay for his Home Office application. It didnt 
sign the draft and the Home Office  rejected his application as invalid. When Mr O realised 
what had happened  he went  back to Nationwide and asked it to pay for a fast track 
application. It refused  to do this but it paid him for the subsequent Home Office  increase in 
the fee. But Mr O said the Home  Office told him he didnt have permission  to work so he lost 
his employment  which has led to financial difficulties.  He then heard in October 2018 that 
hed been granted indefinite leave to remain. But it was too late to get his old jobs back.
Nationwide apologised for its mistake. It paid him £92 to cover  the cost of the increase in 
application fees and it offered him £100 as compensation.
The adjudicator could see that Nationwide  had made a mistake.  But she didnt think the 
Home Office had told him to stop working so she didnt think  it was responsible  for his 
subsequent financial  difficulties. But she thought  its error had caused him significant  distress 
and inconvenience.  So she recommended Nationwide  should  pay him an additional £300.
Mr O was very unhappy about this. He said the compensation shed suggested wasnt  
enough. As a result  of Nationwides mistake hes had health problems and hes had severe  
financial difficulties. He sent us some more information including  a letter from one of his 
employers dated  26 July 2018.  The letter said the Home Office had sent it information saying 
he didnt have the right to work in the UK. 
Nationwide said it would  increase its offer by a further £150 rather than the £300  suggested  
by the adjudicator. And it said itd offered to write  to the Home Office  on behalf of Mr O 
explaining the situation. 
The adjudicator considered the new information  but she didnt  change  her mind.  She said 
she thought it was reasonable to expect  Mr O to give his employer evidence  that he had 
made a new application. So she couldnt  see it was Nationwides fault he lost his 
employment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted its made  a mistake so the issue  I have  to decide is what  it needs 
to do to put things  right for Mr O.
Ref: DRN22579052It seems  that Mr O initially made  his application by post in March 2018. The Home Office 
wrote to him on 11 April 2018  to say his application was invalid as his transaction  was 
declined. Mr O went to Nationwide and arranged a bankers draft on 16 April 2018. But 
Nationwide forgot  to sign it so the Home Office wrote to Mr O on 10 May 2018  to say his 
application was invalid. The letter told him that he cant work if he doesnt  have  leave to 
remain in the UK. Mr O went back to Nationwide  on 17 May 2018  and sent the new 
application to the Home  Office on 21 May 2018. It sent him confirmation of receipt  on 8 June 
2018.
Mr O says Nationwides mistake ultimately  led to him losing  his employment. But it doesnt 
seem to me that Nationwide can be held responsible for that. On 21 May 2018 Mr O 
submitted a new application which was acknowledged by the Home Office.  It wasnt until the 
end of July 2018 that the Home Office wrote to one of Mr Os employers about  his right to 
work in the UK. But there isnt sufficient information  available  for me to fairly  conclude that 
the Home Office generated the letter because of Mr Os late application  due to the unsigned 
bankers draft.
The letter from Mr Os employer said he could send a letter  from the Home Office  confirming 
his outstanding application  as evidence of his right to work in the UK. He had the 
acknowledgement of receipt of his application but he doesnt  appear to have sent that to his 
employer. 
So for those reasons I cant fairly  find Nationwide was responsible  for Mr O losing his 
employment. 
But I can see how stressful this situation  was for him and the impact Nationwides mistake  
had on him. He had the stress  and inconvenience of going  into Nationwide to try and sort the 
problem out. And he had the stress and inconvenience of making a new application. He 
wouldve been naturally anxious  about the outcome  of his application but I think the effect of 
Nationwides mistake  wouldve greatly  increased that anxiety. 
So, as suggested  by the adjudicator in her view of the 16 January 2019, I think  an 
appropriate amount  of compensation is a total of £400 for the trouble and upset its caused. 
This is in addition to the £92 for the fee increase which its already paid but includes the 
£100 compensation its already offered. 
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  Nationwide  Building Society must pay Mr O a 
total of £400 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2257905