K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that esure  Insurance Limited  didnt  carry out the appropriate  standard of 
repairs to his vehicle  and that it took a long time overall to complete the repairs.
background
Mr B insured  his vehicle  with esure  in January 2018. In May 2018, Mr B was involved in a 
road traffic accident  resulting  in damage to his vehicle. So he made  a claim through his 
insurance policy.
Esure arranged to repair the damage to Mr Bs vehicle through one of its approved  repairers, 
who Ill refer to as G. Mr B was unhappy with the standard of repair for several reasons, so 
esure arranged  for an independent inspection of the vehicle. The independent engineer, who 
Ill refer to as H, identified several issues that G was responsible for rectifying, so esure 
paid Mr B £150 compensation and G went on to carry out the recommended  repairs.
Mr B complained to esure again after finding  problems with the repair  a second  time. So 
esure asked  H to carry out an independent inspection. H identified  other  issues  and 
recommended that G carry  out the repairs. So esure paid Mr B another  £150 compensation.
Mr B remained unhappy  after his vehicle was repaired a third time. He told esure  that it 
shouldve written off the vehicle, but esure disagreed - saying  it had acted in line with the 
policy terms. Esure also highlighted that G had reset the steering wheel and carried  out a 
geometry check as a gesture  of goodwill; even though H didnt identify this issue as Gs 
responsibility. Mr B told esure  that he was unable to use his vehicle  during  the Easter 
weekend because of the outstanding issues, so esure paid Mr B another £150 
compensation.  
After a further inspection by H, esure  said it was satisfied that the rectification work had been  
completed and that the remaining issue was due to an ongoing problem that was unrelated 
to this claim.
Mr B remained unhappy  so he referred his complaint to this service.  Mr B says the vehicle 
shouldve been  independently inspected to assess its roadworthiness.  He wants to be paid 
the difference in the market value reduction of the vehicle and says that £450 compensation 
isnt enough.
An investigator looked in to the complaint and didnt think that esure  acted unfairly. Mr B 
disagreed and asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint and Ill explain why.
To start with, Ive examined  the policy document, which is the contract between Mr B and 
esure. The terms and conditions set out the following:
Ref: DRN29689692What is covered
All loss and damage to your car unless its by fire, lightening, explosion, theft or attempted  
theft. We will: 
pay to repair the damage or 
replace whats been  lost or damaged if its more cost effective than repairing it; or 
pay to settle your claim.
Under the terms of the policy, esure  arranged  to repair the vehicle. It is disappointing to see 
that the repairs werent completed appropriately  on more  than one occasion,  despite the 
report from H setting out exactly what work  G needed to carry out. The repairs  seem  to have 
taken around a year overall and I can see how the circumstances  wouldve been frustrating 
for Mr B.
Esure seems  to have recognised that this wasnt good enough  and it has compensated Mr B 
a total sum of £450. It is my understanding that Mr B was provided with a replacement 
vehicle each time G had been carrying out repairs, so he wasnt left without the use of a 
vehicle. I think this is fair given the inconvenience Mr B wouldve experienced whilst trying to 
get his vehicle repaired correctly.
Mr B told this service and esure that he continues to experience  problems with his vehicle 
and he thinks esure  should be responsible for rectifying this. But Id only tell esure to do 
something about it if I thought the problem  was as a result of the accident  and hadnt  been 
repaired, or if I thought the problem  had been caused by esures approved repairer. 
Throughout the course of the claim, esure arranged three independent inspections of the 
vehicle. And I think esure acted fairly  in doing  so. In its final report,  H concluded that the 
repair work had been  completed and the remaining  issue was due to an ongoing problem 
unrelated to the accident. Esure is only responsible for issues that result from the accident or 
a previous poor repair. As such,  I dont think that esure should  be responsible for any further 
repairs.
Mr B has mentioned some  costs hes incurred in rectifying some of the issues. I havent seen 
anything which shows these related to the accident or the subsequent repair.  So there arent  
any grounds to make  esure reimburse him for them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2968969