K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in August 2003 in connection with an unsecured personal loan. Mr C says Nationwide  
Building Society mis-sold the policy.
background
Mr C took out a loan in August 2003. The loan was for £3,000 over a period of 36 months. At 
the same  time he was sold a PPI policy that covered him for accident, sickness  and 
unemployment - it wouldve paid the loan repayments if he wasnt  working.
Our adjudicator rejected  this complaint.  Mr C disagreed, so the case comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.  Ive 
decided to reject this complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide says that all its PPI sales were non-advised - it says it didnt provide advice or a 
recommendation; it sold the PPI policy on an information only basis.  And in the absence  of 
any testimony from Mr C on this subject, Ive determined this complaint on the basis that 
Nationwide didnt provide any advice.
This means  that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for him, but it 
did need to provide clear information so he could make an informed choice about  what  he 
was buying. If adequate  information was provided,  it was Mr Cs responsibility to assess  
whether or not the cover met his needs, taking into account any benefits or policies that he 
already had, before making the decision to purchase. If adequate information  wasnt 
provided, I need to decide whether this information wouldve influenced his decision to take 
the policy.
Was the PPI policy optional?
Nationwide says that the documentation from the time of the sale shows that the PPI policy 
was optional.
The loan and policy were  taken out following a telephone conversation and I just dont know  
what Nationwides representative  said during the discussion on that day in 2004.  And without 
a recording of the discussion its much harder to come to a clear  view on exactly  what  was 
said during that conversation that took place more  than ten years  ago. Ive taken into 
account Mr Cs recollections, but Im mindful  of the fact the passage of time is likely to create 
difficulties in recalling  exactly  what happened  during a conversation which  took place all 
those years ago.
Ive considered this matter carefully,  but based  on the documentary evidence Ive seen, I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence for me to say that the policy  wasnt  presented as 
optional and that Mr C had a choice about buying  it.
Ref: DRN25445032The loan agreement  that he signed  in August  2003 details the costs of the policy under a 
heading Optional Credit  Insurance. And based  on my knowledge of Nationwides loan 
documentation from this time, the Loan Agreement Terms and Conditions also stated You  
understand that the credit insurance is Optional. And I understand that a personal loan 
welcome booklet would also have been  issued to Mr C and that this makes  reference to the 
optional nature of the insurance.
Ive noted that the loan agreement is pre-populated  and Ive considered this carefully. But on 
the basis that the loan details and Mr Cs personal  details are typed, I think  that the sales  
representative simply completed the paperwork  on-screen to reflect the conversation  before 
sending it to Mr C to sign.
So while I accept its possible he was told he had to have PPI, I am not persuaded there is 
sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude  that this was more  likely. I consider it just as 
likely that the policy  was presented as being optional and that he chose to take it out as he 
had some interest in protecting  his loan payments.
Did Nationwide give clear,  fair and not misleading  information?
At the time of the sale Mr C was working,  resident in the UK and in good health.  So he was 
eligible for the cover. Mr C told us he was employed and in good  health - so he wasnt 
caught by any of the significant limitations and exclusions on the cover  relating to health.
Information about the costs was provided on the loan agreement. It set out the separate cost 
of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element and the monthly 
repayment that applied respectively. So I think that the cost of the policy was made clear. I 
also note the policy provided a pro-rata rebate of the single premium amount upon  
cancellation. So Mr C was not disadvantaged if he wanted to repay the loan early  or cancel 
the PPI policy. Furthermore,  the term of the policy (and the protection offered)  matched  the 
term of the loan so the policy was flexible to meet his changing needs and circumstances.
I accept its possible Mr C may feel his information needs may not have been properly met, 
but Im not persuaded that he was disadvantaged  to the extent that he would most likely 
have acted differently  and declined the cover  had he been more fully informed about it.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2544503