K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited (trading as Jaguar Financial Services) (JFS).
background
In September  2018 Mr Y was supplied with a brand new car and entered  into a finance  
agreement with JFS. Very soon after purchase he experienced problems with the 
infotainment system. The car was returned to the dealership on more  than one occasion but 
attempts at repair were  unsuccessful.
In December 2018 Mr Y reported the issues with the infotainment screen  and stop/start 
system to JFS and asked  to reject the car.
In its final response JFS said it had been unable to identify any issues with the stop/start  
system but on the basis that the attempted repairs to the infotainment screen had been  
unsuccessful it said it would allow Mr Y to reject the car. It said it would retain all of Mr Ys 
repayments to cover  fair usage of the car and offered a refund of £411.57 (representing 30% 
of repayments  made)  as compensation to reflect loss of enjoyment as a result of the faulty  
entertainment system. 
Mr Y wasnt  happy with the response. He said he wanted all of his repayments refunded. He 
also wanted compensation for the cost incurred by him in having to run a second car for 4 
months because of the issues  with his new car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said it wasnt fair or reasonable to refund Mr 
Y 100% of his repayments   because despite the faults hed still been  able to use the car and 
had covered 4500 miles since  the point of supply. The investigator said the offer to refund 
30% of the repayments was fair.
Mr Y didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a customer has the right to reject a car if repairs  are 
unsuccessful. In this case, there  were  two attempts at repairing the infotainment  screen both 
of which  were unsuccessful.
The relevant  law also says that the finance  provider can make a deduction  for fair use when 
a car is rejected  in these circumstances. The deduction is generally calculated  on a pence 
per mile basis. There is no specific guidance on how much  a business can charge for fair 
use.
In this case, JFS has applied a fair usage mileage rate of 45p per mile. The car had covered 
approximately 4500 miles from the point of supply so the fair usage charge was calculated at 
£2,025. This sum would usually be deducted from the total repayments made by the 
consumer but in this case,  Mr Y had only made repayments of £1,383.93 at the time when 
the business made the decision to accept  a rejection. The repayments were insufficient  to 
Ref: DRN21098982meet the fair usage charges so the charges were limited to  £1383.93, which equates  to 
approximately 31p per mile.
In the circumstances I dont think JFS has acted unfairly  or unreasonably. It was entitled to 
charge for fair usage.
I appreciate that Mr Y wants 100% of his repayments refunded.  He says he was led to 
believe that he would be put back in the position  he was in as if he had never entered into 
the agreement. I understand  Mr Ys strength of feeling but the relevant law allows  a 
deduction for fair use and I dont think JFS has acted unfairly.
I understand that Mr Y has suffered a degree  of inconvenience and loss of enjoyment as a 
result of the issues with the infotainments system.  JFS has offered to pay compensation of a 
sum equivalent to 30% of his repayments (£411.57) to reflect  this. Im satisfied  that this sum 
is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
Ive noted Mr Ys comments about the employee discount he received on the car and his 
view that JFS has been put in a position  where it might make  a profit. Whilst I accept that Mr 
Y was able to acquire the car at a favourable price, hes benefitted from having much lower  
monthly repayments as a result. Further, once  a car is rejected, the consumer relinquishes 
all interest in it, so a business can do as it sees fit with the car. If the fault with the 
infotainment screen  cant be repaired  as the evidence so far has suggested  then the 
likelihood of achieving  market value for the car is reduced.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2109898