K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) cancelled  his unemployment 
cover. He says that L&G didnt tell him this cover  had become invalid (because the 
accompanying sickness cover had ended), and its decision to no longer provide him with it 
has left him with no effective recourse.
background
Mr L took out Income Protection Benefit with L&G in 2009. The benefit provided two aspects 
of cover  sickness and unemployment.  Towards  the end of 2016, L&G wrote to Mr L to 
explain that his sickness cover would be coming to an end that December. But L&G didnt 
say that Mr Ls unemployment cover  would also be coming to an end, and he continued to 
pay premiums  towards it. 
In November 2017, Mr L was made redundant. He made a claim under his unemployment 
cover, but L&G declined  it explaining there  was no benefit payable under the Income 
Protection Benefit.  It said this was because both sickness and unemployment cover had to 
be in place for it to be valid.
Mr L complained. He said that hed contacted  L&G for clarification about  his cover at the end 
of 2016 when his sickness cover ended,  and L&G had told him his unemployment cover was 
still in place. L&G reviewed its position and agreed to pay Mr Ls unemployment claim. It also 
cancelled his unemployment cover when Mr L confirmed he was returning to work in 
February 2018, but Mr L did not agree with this and wanted his cover  to continue. L&G said 
it wasnt able to do that  because it no longer provided what Mr L previously had  so Mr L 
approached this service.  
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She thought that Mr L was in a better 
position than he would  have been,  because his unemployment claim had been paid without 
him having to pay for accompanying sickness cover since the end of 2016. L&G also told her 
that Mr L was free to apply for a new set of policies if he wanted to have similar  cover  in 
place again, and she didnt recommend his complaint be upheld.
Mr L disagreed. He said that, by cancelling his cover, L&G had left him with no effective 
recourse and he wanted it reinstated. He also said that L&G should have told him sooner 
that his unemployment cover  had been  invalidated because, had he not gone on to make a 
claim, he could have continued  paying  for something that was invalid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I realise that Mr L is very unhappy  about  what has happened, and I appreciate that 
discovering his unemployment  cover  was invalid when he made a claim  must  have been 
distressing for him. 
Ref: DRN22281702L&G has accepted  that it should  have told Mr L his unemployment cover  would  be ending 
when it told him what was happening with his sickness cover. Our investigator said that if 
L&G had maintained its initial decision  that was, not to pay Mr Ls unemployment  claim  it 
was likely we would  have  said that paying it would be the fairest thing for L&G to do. But 
before Mr L approached this service, L&G had already  agreed  to pay his claim. In all the 
circumstances, I agree  that was the right thing for it to do.
Learning that his unemployment cover was invalid at the point he made  a claim must have 
been difficult for Mr L but, based on the available evidence, Im not of the opinion that he lost 
out because of that. I say this because Mr L did actually go on to receive the benefit of the 
cover, when  L&G paid his unemployment claim.  
Mr L has further concerns  about  the potential  of him continuing to pay for cover had he not 
gone on to make a claim. But that did not happen  here, and it would not be right for me to 
make an award for something that did not occur.
I understand that Mr L wants his policy back but, as Ive explained, L&G no longer provide 
the cover  he previously had. So if he wants similar  cover again hell need to explore  what 
products are available  and suitable for him. I appreciate this will, of course,  entail some  level 
of inconvenience  for him, but Mr L would  have always had to have done this  either in 2016  
when his unemployment cover should  have ended, or at the beginning of 2018 when it did. 
I appreciate that my decision is likely  to come as further disappointment for Mr L but, for the 
reasons set out above, it is my opinion that L&G has already  acted  fairly  in doing what  it did. 
Therefore, it doesnt need to do anything more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228170