K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs B complain  about the increased  cost of their home insurance due to delays by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) in settling  a claim.
background
A few years ago Mr H and Mrs B raised a claim with RSA following a water  leak.  The value 
of the claim was considerable and they said it took a long time to deal with the damage.  As a 
result Mr H and Mrs B said they were  quoted  much  higher premiums  for their home 
insurance policy the following year. And they were only able to obtain home insurance cover 
the year after by accepting additional terms which excluded water damage.
Mr H and Mrs B said they had to pay higher renewal premiums  because RSA delayed  the 
settlement. They had to declare a large unsettled claim when seeking new insurance  cover.  
So they want a refund of the extra amount paid due to RSAs delay.
RSA said Mr H and Mrs Bs new insurance provider would have their own underwriting  terms 
and RSA wasnt responsible for the premiums  quoted by other  businesses.  RSA said it had 
already dealt with the duration  of the claim in a separate  complaint.
Mr H and Mrs B werent satisfied with RSAs  response. So they contacted our service  and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She explained she couldnt  look at any compensation 
already paid by RSA in relation to other complaints.  But she could look at whether RSA 
should refund the premium increases. Our investigator acknowledged the time it had taken 
for the claim to be settled.  But she felt it was difficult to say with certainty how long it 
shouldve taken to complete the repairs  or whether this wouldve happened before the 
renewal date.
Our investigator said shed expect  to see an increase in premium where there  has been a 
claim or if a claim was ongoing. And she couldnt say that the claim shouldve been  resolved 
before the renewal  date or that RSA should refund any premium increases. So she wouldnt 
ask RSA to do anything.  
Mr H and Mrs B didnt  agree. So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has clearly been a very stressful period of time for Mr H and Mrs B. They  contacted 
RSA about a substantial amount of damage caused  by an escape of water and I can see our 
service has looked  into a number of matters  in relation to Mr H and Mrs Bs claim. 
In this complaint  Ill look at the increased  premiums Mr H and Mrs B say they had to pay 
after the claim was made. They feel RSA should refund the additional cost as it shouldve  
sorted out the claim sooner.
When Mr H and Mrs B looked for home insurance quotations after the water  leak they would 
have been asked to declare any previous claims.  Underwriters use this information as part of 
their risk assessment when calculating the premium.  
Ref: DRN23181882Following a successful  claim, or while a claim is ongoing, its therefore likely  that the 
premium quoted for policy renewal will be higher than the year before. Insurance premiums  
fluctuate from year to year depending  upon a number of factors. And a recent claim, or a 
claim that is still being looked  into, would normally lead to an increase in the premium  quoted  
for renewal.
The underwriter might consider the risk of a repeat incident to be so great  that either the 
premium increase will be substantial or the risk might be excluded from the policy  cover  
altogether.
Mr H and Mrs B feel RSA couldve sorted  out the claim more  quickly.  And if it had they feel 
the premium increases  wouldnt have happened. Ive looked at all of the information very 
carefully. And its very difficult to say whether RSA couldve  settled the case  before  the 
renewal date. But in any event Mr H and Mrs B wouldve  been  asked to declare any recent  
claims and any ongoing  claims when seeking  new home insurance cover.  And the 
underwriters wouldve taken into account  the claim for water  damage even if it had been 
dealt with before the renewal date.
I do sympathise with the distressing circumstances  Mr H and Mrs B have experienced. In 
any claim involving an escape  of water there is a degree of stress and inconvenience. RSA 
has accepted  it couldve done better and this has been dealt with separately.
But I havent seen  sufficient evidence to suggest  RSA couldve dealt with the claim before 
the renewal date. Or that the premium increases wouldve been avoided  as a result.  Each 
underwriter calculates  its premium based  on a number  of factors  including recent claims, 
both completed and ongoing.  
I know Mr H and Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. But based on everything Ive 
seen I cant ask RSA to refund any increase in premium paid by Mr H and Mrs B after they 
submitted the claim for water damage.  And I wont be asking it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 July 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2318188