K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four loans Mr Lender provided to Mrs B between  October  2014  and 
November 2015.  The loans ranged in term from one to six months. This is a summary of 
Mrs Bs lending  history from Mr Lender. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 12/10/2014 19/12/2014 400
2 02/01/2015 25/06/2015 1000
3 06/07/2015 24/09/2015 500
4 07/11/2015 - 500
Our adjudicator thought the loans from loan 2 onwards  shouldnt  have been given. 
Mr Lender didnt agree, so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN23530812I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Mr Lender needed to do more  
when it approved loan 1. It asked for information on Mrs Bs income and expenditure and 
carried out a credit check. So I dont think Mr Lender  was wrong to give loan 1 to Mrs B.
But when Mrs B applied  for her second  loan I think Mr Lender  should have done more to 
independently check Mrs Bs financial position.  I say this for a number  of reasons  the 
amount Mrs B was asking  to borrow increased  significantly to £1000;  she was asking to 
borrow over a longer  term;  she had deferred two repayments on loan one; and she was 
asking to borrow again only days after repaying her previous loan. Each factor  on its own 
may not have meant Mr Lender ought  to have done more  but combined, I think  they did. 
And had Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for loan 2, I think it would have made a 
different lending decision. Ive looked  at Mrs Bs bank statements  from the time to see what  
better checks would  have shown Mr Lender. I am not saying it had to use bank  statements, 
just that this could  have  been one way to better  understand her financial circumstances.
 
By loan 2 there were clear  signs that Mrs B was struggling to manage her money. At the 
time she applied  Mrs B was spending significant  amounts  of her income on gambling.  Had 
Mr Lender known that I dont think it would have  been reasonable for it to conclude  this loan 
was likely to be sustainably affordable. At this point it should have stopped lending to Mrs B. 
At least  until such point that it had evidence that her finances had stabilised. And I cant see 
this was the case when it approved loans 3 or 4. So I think  Mr Lender was wrong  to give 
loans 2 onwards  to Mrs B.
I have carefully considered Mr Lenders response  to our adjudicators view that set out why it 
feels it carried out proportionate checks.  I note the argument it has made about the reduction 
in the repayments as a proportion of her monthly income for loan 2. But whilst the monthly 
commitment may have reduced, the time over which she needed to be able to sustainably 
make repayments was increasing. So this, in addition to the reasons set out above, doesnt  
change my conclusion  that Mr Lender ought  to have  carried out further checks.  
It follows Im upholding the complaint about  loans  2 onwards, and Mr Lender should  put 
things right. 
Ref: DRN23530813putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs B paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
if it chooses, apply  the refund to any outstanding principal balance on loan 4 before 
paying any remaining  balance  (if there  is any) to Mrs B**; and
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 4 from Mrs Bs credit file
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding  debt from loan 4 to a third party  it should  buy it back 
before doing what Ive said above. If this isnt possible, Mr Lender needs to make  sure that 
Mrs B has paid or will pay no more in total than the principal amounts she was lent. So Mr 
Lender should (in addition to the above  if necessary):
arrange to repay  any portion of the sum due to the third party  that is made up of 
interest and charges   including any added by the third party;
refund  any interest and charges  that Mrs B has already  paid to the third party,  plus 
8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
instruct the third party  to remove any information that it may have recorded about the 
loans from Mrs Bs credit file.
If Mr Lender  doesnt buy the debt back then it isnt entitled to make any deductions 
from the amount  that it needs to pay Mrs B.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must give 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If Mr Lender intends to 
apply the refund  to reduce  any outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
**If after taking  the above steps  there is still a principal balance due, I remind  Mr Lender of its 
obligation to treat Mrs B fairly  and reasonably in any settlement discussions.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020. 
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2353081