K820x#14complaint
Ms A through her representative Mr R complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with her claim under a home emergency 
policy. She wants compensation  for trouble and upset.
background
Ms A had a home emergency policy  with IPA, which covered the work necessary to make  
her property safe or secure (or to avoid initial or further damage) due to a sudden  
unexpected event. Her property had a flat roof which Mr R said was damaged in a storm in 
September 2018; this caused  a leak in his view. Ms A and Mr R were concerned that this 
meant the property wasnt safe and called IPA. A contractor attended the property, but Mr R 
said he didnt go onto the roof; the contractor  said the roof was damaged and left without 
doing anything. Mr R got another  contractor to visit, who said a new roof would be required, 
and fixed plastic sheeting  over the roof to prevent further damage in the meantime. Mr R 
said this delay caused further damage to the property, which wouldve been avoided if IPAs  
contractor had put plastic sheeting on the roof.
Mr R complained to IPA, saying that it shouldve carried out a temporary  repair and gone 
onto the roof. IPA asked for evidence from the second contractor; Mr R said he wasnt  given 
any report and the second contractor had said he was too busy  to do reports or supply 
invoices. IPA said that its contractor did inspect the roof, said it was beyond repair and 
wasnt able to carry out a temporary  repair under the terms of the policy.  It said without any 
reports to the contrary, it could only rely on the view of its contractor, but pointed  out both 
contractors agreed that the roof needed replacing. IPA offered  to pay for the costs  of the 
temporary repair, but Mr R declined this offer as he wasnt  charged  for the plastic sheeting 
installation.
Mr R complained to us. IPAs contractor  told the investigator that the roof was damaged as it 
was at the end of its life and suffered wear and tear, not due to weather damage.  Under the 
terms of the policy, the IPA contractor said that temporary repairs would only be carried  out if 
the damage was caused by a storm, which it said wasnt the case  with Ms As roof. It also 
supplied photos  of the damage (which also showed how close  to the roof the IPA contractor 
was during the inspection, though Mr R said this was carried out on a second  visit two days  
after the first one following his complaint).
The investigators view was that the evidence  led her to believe that the weather wasnt in 
fact a storm as defined by the insurance policy and the damage was due to wear and tear. 
She said that this meant that under  the terms of the home emergency  policy, the roof wasnt 
covered and there was no requirement for IPA to carry out temporary repairs.  The complaint 
wasnt upheld.
Mr R disagreed. He said that he didnt say that there was a storm; the investigator pointed 
out that Mr R told this service when  he first contacted us about the storm. Mr R said the IPA 
contractor didnt go onto the roof on the first visit; the investigator said this didnt change  the 
cause of the damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26255312Home emergency policies, such as Ms As, only cover emergencies  caused by sudden  
unexpected events, not due to wear and tear. The relevant  rules  and industry  guidelines say 
that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  But given the absence  of evidence from Ms As contractor, the only 
evidence available  is that of IPAs own contractor.  It has supplied  a report  and photos  and 
explained why it thinks the damage  wasnt caused  by the weather (which doesnt meet the 
definition of a storm under the policy according  to the evidence of the weather stations). 
I think it was fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on the evidence  it received; the photos  
supplied are consistent with the report and support its conclusions. This means that Ms A 
wasnt entitled to any temporary repair work being  carried out under the terms and 
conditions of the home emergency policy. The policy also doesnt cover the costs of 
replacing the roof permanently.
Mr R complained that the contractor didnt go onto the roof on the first visit. But theres  no 
fixed rule that contractors must go onto a roof; sometimes that might  not be the safe or 
necessary course  of action. The contractors conclusion on the first visit from his inspection  
was the same conclusion  as reached  in the second inspection two days  later (and the need 
for a new roof confirmed by Ms As own contractor). I cant say that IPA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when dealing with Ms As claim in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept  or reject my decision before 
10 October 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2625531