K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Emergency Cash Limited,  trading as wizzcash.com, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner  and didnt help him to resolve  matters.
background
On 8 October 2018, Mr H took out a loan for £600  with wizzcash.com. The loan was 
repayable in three broadly  equal instalments of around £289.
Mr H says that hes had many payday  loans over the years,  which would have been 
apparent from his credit history. He says that wizzcash.com didnt carry out proper checks  
before lending to him. Mr H says that wizzcash.com  didnt help him when he told it about  the 
difficulty he was in.
One of our adjudicators assessed  Mr Hs complaint. She didnt think  that wizzcash.com had 
acted unfairly in lending to Mr H. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators  assessment. He thought  that wizzcash.com had 
been irresponsible in lending to him and that it could and should  have done more to avoid 
him getting further credit. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
wizzcash.com needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN26143432But certain factors might  point to the fact that wizzcash.com should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that wizzcash.com was required to 
establish whether  Mr H could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr H 
has faced but I dont think that wizzcash.com was wrong to lend to him and Ill explain why. 
Based on what Ive seen,  this was Mr Hs first and only loan with wizzcash.com. Given  the 
amount he borrowed,  the level of the repayments  and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for wizzcash.com to 
ask Mr H for the amount of information  needed  to show  the lending was unsustainable.  
wizzcash.com asked Mr H about  his income  and expenditure  which it recorded as £2,000  
and £820 respectively. Therefore, it appeared that Mr H could afford  to repay  the instalments 
of around £289.
wizzcash.com also carried out credit searches. The information a prospective lender can get 
from credit  searches isnt in the same  detail as the information Mr H can see from his own 
credit report.  And theres a reporting cycle, which means theres  often a delay in information 
showing up in a credit  search.
Ref: DRN26143433Ive looked at the results of wizzcash.coms credit searches. They  show  significant 
short-term borrowing but it was more than 12 months before and it was repaid. I dont think 
that information, in itself,  was sufficient to require wizzcash.com to do more than it did. In the 
circumstances here,  there wasnt anything  in the information Mr H provided or the 
information wizzcash.com should  have  been  aware of, which meant it would have  been  
proportionate to either ask Mr H about  other short-term  borrowing or to start verifying what 
Mr H said about his financial position. I dont think that wizzcash.com was wrong to give the 
loan to Mr H.
I appreciate that Mr H was worried about arrears and default  notices  but I dont think that 
wizzcash.com was wrong to send that correspondence. I understand that wizzcash.com  
wrote off a small amount of what Mr H owed. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H but for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2614343