K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that ReAssure Limited wouldnt let her surrender her endowment, and the 
redress its now agreed to doesnt fully cover  her costs.
Mrs G is being represented  in this complaint. 
background
Mrs G holds a Barclays  life savings and protection plan with ReAssure. In June 2018, 
Mrs G contacted ReAssure about  surrendering the policy. Mrs G and her husband had 
bought a property in Portugal earlier that year. They wanted the funds to complete 
renovation work theyd  undertaken  so they could  rent out the property. 
ReAssure sent Mrs G some paperwork to complete, which was returned in late July 2018.  
ReAssure then requested further documents. For example, it sent out a signature  verification 
form as it felt there was a discrepancy between the signature it held on file for Mrs G and 
that on her surrender form.  After some back and forth about  what  was needed, a complaint 
was raised about  how long the process was taking. In response, ReAssure said it still 
needed more  information about  Mrs Gs addresses  in Portugal and Thailand to complete its 
verification checks.  But it admitted it couldve been  clearer about  what  information Mrs G 
needed to provide, and offered £100  compensation.
Mrs G then asked our service to review what  had happened. Our investigator initially  didnt 
uphold the complaint  on the grounds that ReAssure was entitled to carry out verification  
checks. But on reflection,  he felt the checks went beyond what  was reasonable. He pointed  
out that the funds were going  to be paid into the same account the plan had been funded 
from since its inception in 1983. And the company handling the surrender for ReAssure was 
satisfied with the information  Mrs G had provided by 14 September 2018.  It was ReAssures 
decision to then ask for more information.  Our investigator felt ReAssure shouldve  been in a 
position to pay out the policy by 19 September 2018.
To put things right, our investigator suggested  that ReAssure pay out the value of the 
investment as of 19 September 2018, plus 8% simple interest. He also recommended  that 
ReAssure increase the compensation  from £100 to £150. ReAssure  accepted this  but 
Mrs G didnt. She said shed had to draw  down on two pensions in order to finish  the 
renovations. And these  payments  had been  heavily taxed. Mrs G said she wouldnt have 
needed to do this if ReAssure had paid out the policy when requested.  So she didnt feel the 
compensation and interest wed recommended was sufficient.
Our investigator didnt  feel there was a strong  enough link between what Mrs G had done  
and ReAssures delay  to hold it responsible for these  additional  costs.  He also queried why 
Mrs G hadnt explored other,  cheaper alternatives to raising  the funds she needed. As an 
agreement couldnt  be reached,  the matter  was referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im not surprised that ReAssure carried out checks before agreeing to the surrender. In fact, 
thats what Id expect it to do. As ReAssure  felt there was a discrepancy  with the signatures, 
Ref: DRN25432472it was prudent  to verify  this. But Im conscious  that Mrs Gs husband  (who  was going through  
a similar  process)  sent in several documents following a call with ReAssure on 
13 September 2018  which the company handling  the surrender  was satisfied with. Im also 
conscious that the money was due to be paid into an account  that had been  associated with 
the plan since  its inception. Considering the level of risk involved, Im not persuaded it was 
necessary for ReAssure  to request further  information at that stage. 
In addition, I think there were some  communication issues  with how the surrender request 
was handled.  For example,  it seems there  was a lack of clarity around what was needed 
until the call on 13 September 2018. Even  then,  there was confusion over whether 
screenshots (rather  than certified documents)  could be accepted. Thinking about the impact 
this had on Mrs G, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is a fair reflection of the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered because of these communication failings.
But, even  taking into account these communication issues, Im conscious that Mrs G didnt 
return the signature verification form ReAssure requested until after the call on 
13 September 2018. And I dont think ReAssure  was in a position  to process the surrender 
until this  and some additional  documents   had been submitted and reviewed. Thats why 
Ive concluded  that 19 September 2018 is the date by which ReAssure should reasonably  
have allowed the surrender to proceed. ReAssure should therefore pay out what  the policy 
was worth on that date.
Im not satisfied that simply paying  out this lump sum (in addition  to £150 for the non-
financial impact) covers  the financial impact this situation  had on Mrs G. Our investigator 
recommended that ReAssure pay 8% simple interest per year on top of the value of the 
endowment. Thats the usual rate of interest  we award  when someone  has been deprived  of 
money. It takes into account that customers may have gone  without things they wouldve 
benefitted from, and may have incurred costs from making other  financial arrangements 
(such as borrowing  money).
We can award interest at a different rate or make a different award if its fair to do so. If Im 
satisfied that ReAssure ought to take responsibility for Mrs Gs decision to take lump sums  
from her pensions, then I can ask it to cover  that cost or pay interest at a rate which  covers  
Mrs Gs additional tax bill. Ive considered whether its fair to do that here,  given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Gs point that she may not have drawn down on her pension funds if she 
couldve accessed her ReAssure policy sooner. But Mrs Gs representative has told us she 
contacted her pension providers  about  drawing down her funds towards the end of 
August 2018.  Ive already  explained why Im not satisfied ReAssure wouldve been  in a 
position to pay out the funds until 19 September 2018. So I cant hold ReAssure responsible 
for any arrangements Mrs G made before the information ReAssure reasonably  needed to 
surrender the policy had been sent to it. So Im not persuaded any losses Mrs G has 
suffered are attributable to ReAssure.  I therefore  conclude the resolution suggested by our 
investigator is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I require ReAssure Limited to:
Allow Mrs G to surrender her policy,  paying  out its value as of 19 September 2018 
plus 8% simple interest from 19 September 2018 to the date of settlement
Ref: DRN25432473Pay £150 compensation for the inconvenience caused by the communication issues  
at the start
ReAssure Limited should  pay this to Mrs G within  28 days of receiving her acceptance of this 
decision. If ReAssure thinks its legally required to deduct income tax from any interest,  it 
must send  a tax deduction certificate  to Mrs G if she asks for one.
Mrs G should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mrs G and ReAssure  Limited as to whether the offer 
still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding after rejection of it 
has been communicated. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2543247