K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money) will not accept a 
certified copy of a Lasting Power  of Attorney.
To settle  matters hed like Post Office  Money to accept the document hes provided.
background
Mr F sent a certified copy of a lasting power of attorney (LPA) to Post Office Money to allow 
him to manage his mothers  financial affairs.  After  hed sent the LPA Post Office  Money  
wrote to him in late September 2018  to say it wasnt acceptable  because it wasnt stamped  
validated OPG along the bottom of each  page.
Mr F complained to Post Office Money but it didnt uphold his complaint.  He says the final 
response letter said that the LPA was rejected because it wasnt  dated and because the 
person providing  the certification must  be capable  of being contacted and their contact 
details should  be obtained. He says this contradicts what he was previously told  that it was 
rejected because it wasnt validated by the OPG. Mr F remained unhappy so he brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
hed been given contradictory  information  because the final response letter also went  on to 
explain that without  the OPGs validation it wouldnt be able to grant authority  to Mr F to 
manage his mothers  account.  She thought Post Office  Money  had acted correctly in 
requiring the certifying solicitors full name  so it could independently verify the solicitors 
professional standing.
She thought  the information  provided  by Post Office Money couldve been clearer. But she 
was satisfied that Mr F was aware  of what was required for Post Office Money to accept the 
LPA as its requirements  were set out the September 2018 letter, in its final response letter  
and during Mr Fs call to the business in early  October.
Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators view. He says the copy hes already provided  should 
be sufficient. In summary:
the validated OPG mark doesnt appear  because its not come out on the copy;
hes been given  different reasons  for the LPA being rejected  and the LPA was 
dated and he subsequently got the solicitor  to include his full name and firms stamp;
hes gone to great  lengths and expense to manage his mothers affairs  and hes 
obtained copies  of the LPA to avoid losing  the original. Hes unwilling  to send Post 
Office Money the original  LPA so hed like Post Office Money  to reimburse his costs 
of obtaining a certified copy from OPG.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr F but I will not be upholding this complaint. So Ill explain why.
I must firstly explain that our general  approach is to investigate whether a business has 
made an error and if it has, we consider what has to be done  to put things right.  Financial 
businesses are generally free to determine their own policies and as we dont  regulate  them  
Ref: DRN25644902its within our powers to tell Post Office  Money to change its procedures for accepting  
certified copies of LPAs.
I think Post Office Money  could have been clearer at the outset about its reasons for 
rejecting the certified copy LPA Mr F provided.  But on balance  and based on the information  
Ive seen Im satisfied Mr F was aware  of Post Office  Moneys  requirements  as these were 
explained in its letter to Mr F in late September 2018, in its final response letter and in Mr Fs 
conversation with Post Office Money.
I dont think the final response letter contradicted the earlier  information  hed been  given. 
This is because as well as explaining that the LPA hadnt been certified correctly it also 
explained that the LPA needed to be validated by the OPG before Post Office Money could 
accept it.
The certified copy Ive seen is dated  but I cant say Post Office  Money  acted unfairly in 
requiring the solicitors  full name and contact details so it could independently validate the 
solicitors professional standing.
Post Office  Money requires the LPA to be validated by OPG. I cant see that the copy 
provided by Mr F has the validated OPG marking. I accept its possible that this doesnt 
show on the copy Mr F provided. But I cant say Post Office Money has acted unfairly in 
requiring sight of a certified copy that clearly shows its been validated  by the OPG - 
especially as Post Office  Moneys requirements  are in line with the requirements for 
registration of LPAs set out the GOV.UK web-site.  This says an LPA is registered when 
OPG has stamped it with validated-OPG.
Mr F has now produced confirmation  from the OPG that the LPA has been registered with it. 
So he says that this, along with the other documents hes provided, should be sufficient  for 
Post Office  Money to register his LPA.  Unfortunately, as Ive explained above, I cant require 
Post Office  Money to change its processes for acceptance of LPAs.  And I cant say that Post 
Office Money has treated  Mr F unfairly because  its explained the documentation it needs to 
be able to accept  a certified  copy LPA.
Post Office  Money has also suggested  that Mr F could send the original LPA. Mr F doesnt 
want to do this as he doesnt want to risk loss of the original. I can understand his concern 
but Im afraid thats a decision  hes taken. So I cant say Post Office Money has acted 
unfairly by not agreeing to reimburse  his costs  of obtaining an office copy from OPG.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2564490