K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) charged them an 
Early Repayment Charge  (ERC) when they paid off their mortgage. They say this wasnt 
brought to their attention  when they took out the lending.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a NatWest mortgage in 2002.  The mortgage was initially  taken out at 
a discounted rate of 2.10% below NatWests variable rate until 31 October 2003. But they 
were tied into that mortgage  until 31 October 2005.
In 2004, Mr and Mrs P say that they were  forced  to sell the property when a business Mr P 
was working with didnt pay his fees  and this left him without an income.
When Mr and Mrs P went to sell the property, because they ended the agreement early, they 
incurred an ERC. Mr and Mrs P complained about this at the time, saying they werent made  
aware theyd have to pay this if they sold their property. Theyve told me that they thought an 
ERC was a loyalty charge should they change mortgage provider. And that they didnt think  
it would  be applicable if they sold their property.  
NatWest initially quoted the early  repayment charge as £13,384.32, but when  Mr and Mrs P 
complained about the charge in 2004,  they reduced  this to £10,038.39.  Mr and Mrs P 
accepted this at the time.
In 2018, Mr and Mrs P complained to NatWest again  about the ERC. Again saying the 
charge wasnt made clear  to them. NatWest responded to Mr and Mrs P to say to say it 
didnt agree with their complaint and they thought the charge had been made clear.
Mr and Mrs P werent happy  with NatWests response,  so it brought  the complaint to our 
service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think NatWest had done  anything wrong. He decided  the charge had 
been applied  correctly and in line with the relevant regulations at the time.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with our adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision  on the matter. 
Ref: DRN20153822my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the Offer of Mortgage Advance  letter from 2002 that was signed by both 
Mr and Mrs P. Just above where  Mr and Mrs P have signed theres a section called special 
conditions relating to advance.  Here  it states  the mortgage was at a discounted rate until 
31 October 2003. It then goes on to say that if part or all of the mortgage was repaid on or 
before 31 October  2005,an ERC would be payable. 
Given how long ago this mortgage was taken  out, its difficult for me to know what  
conversations took place  about the ERC  before Mr and Mrs P agreed to the mortgage  as 
memories can and do fade with time. But as Ive said,  the mortgage offer letter says an ERC  
would be due if part or all of the mortgage  was repaid before 31 October  2005.  Given  the 
large financial commitment Mr and Mrs P were  taking  on with the mortgage,  I think  its likely 
theyd have read the offer letter before they signed  it. And so I think  its likely theyd have 
known about the ERC  before they agreed to take out the mortgage.
Ive taken on board what Mr and Mrs P have said about their situation at the time they took 
out the mortgage  and that it was quite a pressurised time for them.  But I have to consider 
whether NatWest has done anything wrong.  And I dont think it has.
Mr and Mrs P say they werent told the ERC would still be due if they sold the property 
altogether. And they thought the purpose  of the ERC was to put consumers off going to a 
different lender. It isnt clear why Mr and Mrs P thought this, but there isnt anything  on the 
mortgage offer letter or terms and conditions of the mortgage that make me think  this was 
the case. And the offer of advance refers to the mortgage borrowing itself  and not where 
the funds would go after the mortgage  had been  redeemed.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the mortgage. I can see these show  that an ERC 
would be due if the loan was paid off. It also explains how the ERC  would  be calculated. So I 
think NatWest has acted  fairly and in accordance  with its terms and conditions when 
applying the ERC. Mr and Mrs P say they werent  told what the maximum charge would be, 
but there was no requirement for NatWest to do this at the time.
On 31 October 2004, mortgages became regulated.  Because Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was 
sold before  this date,  it wasnt  a regulated  mortgage.  But at the time, NatWest  would have 
been required to follow the standards and commitments set out in The Mortgage Code. The 
Mortgage Code  states that a general description  of the ERC should be made  clear  before a 
consumer agrees to the lending. And that an early repayment of the mortgage could have 
adverse financial  consequences.  
Looking at the mortgage offer, I think NatWest  did what it needed to do in notifying 
Mr and Mrs P about the ERC. I say this because the offer gives  a general description of the 
ERC and that it is a charge  so I think this highlights that there would be some adverse  
financial consequences for repaying the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs P wanted to know if the ERC  was made under current  regulatory requirements.  
But given that the mortgage was taken out in 2002, the ERC needed to be communicated  in 
line with the requirements at the time. 
Ref: DRN20153823NatWest hasnt been able to give us a copy of the documents that are likely to have been 
completed when  the mortgage ended.  But this isnt surprising or unusual  given  how long ago 
the mortgage was redeemed. And given that Mr and Mrs P are complaining  that the ERC 
wasnt made clear to them when they agreed  to take the mortgage, I dont think I need to 
see any information from when the mortgage was redeemed.
Mr and Mrs P have  referred to our online resource when looking at our approach to ERCs. 
And I can assure Mr and Mrs P that I have looked at their complaint in line with our approach 
and taking into account all the necessary laws and regulations. Much of the examples on our 
resource refer to mortgages taken out post regulation  so after 31 October  2004,  and so the 
same standards dont  apply to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs P have  sent in a newspaper  article  about NatWest. Presumably they feel this is 
evidence that supports  their case.  But when  considering this complaint, Ive looked at the 
individual merits of this specific  case,  and so I wont be taking into account general  
newspaper articles.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P have also received redress for a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. They cant understand why their complaint  about PPI was upheld, 
when their complaint  about the ERC hasnt been.  But these are entirely separate  products. 
And we look at different sales processes and whats happened in the individual cases when 
coming to decision.  Having  looked  at all of the information I have on file relating to the ERC,  
I cant agree  it wasnt highlighted to Mr and Mrs P before they took out the mortgage. 
So I think NatWest has done everything  it needed to do when it presented information about 
the ERC   and so I cant fairly say it has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2015382