K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited declined  his card 
transactions and asked  him to complete a financial  review in order to unblock his account. 
Hes unhappy hes been charged interest  on his account. And hes also unhappy  that hes 
received default  letters  and had late payment  recorded on his credit  file. 
background
Mr S has a number of accounts with American  Express (AMEX). In June 2018 AMEX  
declined a transaction Mr S had attempted to make using his card. A few days later he 
noticed that other transactions were also declined when he tried to use his card. In April and 
June 2018 Mr S made transactions to a company Ill refer to as S. AMEX said it had reason 
to suspect that Mr S was using his card to obtain  cash through transactions  with S. It said 
this was in breach of the terms  of Mr S account.  So, it decided  to block  his card.
When Mr S contacted AMEX to query  why his transactions were being declined  it told him 
his card was blocked. But Mr S said it didnt explain why. Mr S said that AMEX then told him 
it was undertaking  a financial review  on his account. He was asked to provide AMEX  with 
financial information and three months  of bank statements, which  it said was required to 
unblock his account. But Mr S didnt provide any financial information to AMEX.  
Mr S says he received  a letter  from AMEX, which stated that further charging against his 
account would be suspended until its financial review could be completed. He understood 
this to mean that there  would  be no interest  applied to his account. And said he thought  this 
letter was ambiguous and unclear. He also said he later noticed, on looking at his 
statements, that interest was being charged. 
Mr S said he didnt  make the correct  minimum payments to his account for about  four 
months, which led to missed payment markers  being recorded on his credit file. He said he 
also received notices of default and correspondence  from a debt collection agency.
Mr S wasnt  happy with what had happened  so he raised a complaint with AMEX. After  it 
investigated, AMEX  didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It thought it acted correctly in blocking Mr 
S account and in applying interest to it. And it said it hadnt  made  an error in sending  him 
default notice  letters or recording late payment markers on his credit file.
Being unhappy with AMEXs response to his complaint, Mr S referred it to us. But, our 
investigator didnt  uphold his complaint and said that they thought AMEX  had acted fairly 
and reasonably here. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators view of this complaint and 
asked for it to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator.  I appreciate  Mr S will be disappointed  by this 
outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my decision.
Mr S is unhappy that AMEX blocked his account  and prevented him from using his card to 
make purchases. So, the first issue Ive considered  is whether AMEX  did anything  wrong  in 
deciding to suspend  Mr S account.  
Ref: DRN28427542AMEX told our service that it suspended Mr S account due to concerns about his spending 
behaviour. Specifically, it was unhappy with the way in which  Mr S was using his account. 
And it said it suspected  he was using his card to obtain cash via transactions with S. 
AMEX has very strict rules and guidelines about cash access and about the transparency of 
card usage.  Mr S had a modest cash withdrawal  limit. And from the statements Ive seen in 
April and June 2018, while  Mr S didnt have an available cash  withdrawal limit during  those  
months, he used his card to make large transactions to S. 
 
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of Mr S account,  which clearly  outline the reasons why 
AMEX may decide to suspend a customers account. In accordance with these terms AMEX 
is able to block any transactions  or accounts if it has reasonable grounds to suspect 
improper use. The terms also state  that a customer must not user their account  in a manner 
which disguises the true nature of the transaction, for example, by obtaining cash  through a 
transaction which you know will be treated as a purchase of goods or services. 
Taking into account the reason why AMEX blocked  Mr S account here, Im satisfied AMEX 
has reason to suspect  that Mr S was attempting to obtain cash from S in efforts  to avoid the 
high interest rate AMEX wouldve applied to cash advances.  So, I think AMEX was entitled  
to suspend Mr S account in these circumstances. It acted in line with its terms and 
conditions. It also asked  Mr S to provide financial information so it could undertake  the 
review process that it needed to complete before it could unlock his account. Mr S chose not 
to engage with this process.  So, I cant fairly  conclude that the actions AMEX took here were  
unreasonable or unfair.
The next issue Ive gone on to consider is whether AMEX told Mr S it wouldnt apply interest 
to his account during the financial review  it decided to carry out on his account.
Mr S complains that AMEX charged him interest on his account balance after it wrote to him 
explaining that that further charging on his account  would be suspended until its review  had 
been completed. Its clear that Mr S understood this letter  to mean that no interest  would be 
charged. But, having seen  a copy of this letter, it doesnt refer to fees or interest not being 
incurred on Mr S account. 
While Mr S feels the content of this letter is ambiguous I dont agree. I say this because I 
think its clear  that the reference to charging relates to Mr S use of his card to make 
purchases. And it would  be reasonable for AMEX to add interest to an outstanding balance 
in accordance with the terms of Mr S account,  even if it was under review, because  the 
outstanding balance was used before the review. Ive also seen evidence that AMEX made 
Mr S aware that the letter he received was telling him that he wasnt able to spend on his 
account due to restrictions placed  on it during its review process. 
Due to his account being blocked and the correspondence Mr S received from AMEX, he 
said he made some payments that were  lower than the required minimum payments. He 
said he wasnt able to calculate the interest  correctly on his payments and this all led to 
missed payment markers  being recorded on his credit file and notices of default being 
issued. But Ive already explained  why I dont think AMEXs correspondence was unclear. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to show that Mr S was told he didnt  need  to make 
minimum payments to his account during AMEXs review process. 
Ref: DRN28427543Based on what Ive seen  I think it was clear from the information  AMEX presented to Mr S 
that he needed to continue to maintain minimum payments on his account. I say this 
because Mr S AMEX statements clearly set out how much interest AMEX was charging  him 
each month  and what minimum monthly  payments he was required to make. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr S account  make  clear that minimum payments need to be 
made each  month and Ive seen nothing which states that these payments can be stopped  
during the process of a review or a complaint being  answered. If Mr S was unsure about 
whether he needed to make payments he couldve raised further queries directly  with AMEX. 
Had he done so its most  likely AMEX wouldve told him to continue  to make  the minimum 
monthly payments  stipulated on his statements.
So, I think Mr S ought to have known  what  minimum  payment to make each month and how 
much interest AMEX was charging him. It follows that I cant  reasonably find that this 
information wasnt clearly  presented  to Mr S. Im also persuaded that AMEX was entitled to 
apply interest and late payment fees to Mr S account while his account was under review. 
Theres no evidence that these charges were applied outside the accounts terms and 
conditions. Information  about interest  and fees are set out clearly in the terms that apply to 
Mr S account. So, Im satisfied AMEX  gave Mr S sufficient information  about  interest  and 
fees and that it was entitled to apply  them  here.
Mr S complains that the information AMEX reported to credit  reference agencies about  his 
late payments is having a significant and detrimental  impact on his credit rating and ability  to 
gain credit. He wants this information to be erased from his credit  file. But I dont  think  that 
would be reasonable. Ill explain why.
Financial  businesses should make sure that the information they report  to credit reference 
agencies is accurate. And the consequences of missing a payment would mean that a late 
payment marker  could  appear on Mr S credit file. It was Mr S responsibility to pay the 
correct amount on time. While he later brought his account up-to-date this doesnt mean that 
AMEX should  remove accurate  information  about what happened,  which  is that a number of 
payments were missed.
I appreciate the late payment markers will affect  Mr S credit  score for some  time. But taking 
all the circumstances  into account, Im satisfied  that AMEX reported  late payment 
information properly.  He didnt maintain his account in line with its terms and conditions  and 
this is what AMEX reported. I cant say it acted  unfairly and unreasonably in reporting  this 
information. So I cant ask it to remove it as its a true reflection of what happened. 
Mr S is unhappy that he was sent default notices while his complaint was outstanding,  which  
explained that his account would be cancelled. But, as our investigator explained this isnt 
uncommon in the financial industry. Theres no evidence  that Mr S told AMEX he couldnt  
bring his account  up to date because he was experiencing  financial difficulties. Had he done  
so, AMEX wouldve  had to act in a positive and sympathetic manner, which  may have  meant 
it considering temporarily stopping collections. 
As Mr S account fell into arrears I cant reasonably find that it was wrong of AMEX  to default 
his account. This is a commercial decision its entitled to take if it wishes  and its in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions Ive seen. And when a customer  isnt meeting their 
contractual repayments, as happened  here, a business is entitled to issue  a default. As Mr 
Ss account remained in arrears for some  time I think  it was reasonable for AMEX to issue a 
Ref: DRN28427544default and follow its collection  process . This is what it did here,  so I cant  say its done 
anything wrong .
I can appreciate that Mr S was frustrated when he wasnt able to use his account as he had 
wanted to. But, for the reasons set out above,  Im satisfied that AMEX acted fairly and 
reasonably and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to do anymore. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2842754