K820x#14complaint
Ms S complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. The policy 
was sold to her by Barclays Bank UK PLC to protect  her credit card repayments against 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
Barclays has upheld Ms S complaint about the sale of the policy, but Ms S is unhappy with 
the compensation it paid her. 
background
Ms S complained to Barclays about  the policy in 2018. Barclays wrote to Ms S upholding her 
complaint. Barclays paid her £160.38.  
An adjudicator from this service thought the compensation was fair. Ms S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I think the compensation Barclays  has paid Ms S is fair and has been calculated how Id 
expect it to be. Ill explain why.
Before I look at Barclays offers of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain our 
approach when we find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays  to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods where  theyd been  out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year.
In this case Ms S had PPI attached to her credit  card account  from 2003 to 2006.  During  that 
time she was charged 14 PPI premiums totalling £79.56.  And I can see these have been 
refunded by Barclays.
I can also see that Ms S was charged £8.24 in interest because  of those premiums. And 
Barclays has refunded  this too.
Barclays has also added £72.58 (after tax) compensatory  interest  calculated  at 8% simple  
interest for the time Ms S has been  out of pocket.
So I can see Barclays has calculated the compensation in the way Id expect  it to. And Im 
satisfied it puts Ms S in the financial  position shed be in if the PPI hadnt been sold to her.
Ref: DRN24724222I know Ms S is unhappy that Barclays sold her the PPI in the first place. But this service  
wouldnt usually make  monetary awards to consumers simply because  something has gone  
wrong, beyond placing  consumers back in the position they would have  been  in had the   
mis-sale not occurred. 
I may make an additional award if I think a consumer has suffered particular distress or 
inconvenience as a result  of the mis-sale or if the business has handled a complaint  poorly.  
But in this case I dont  think there  are sufficient grounds to make such an additional award to 
Ms S. 
Ms S has told us she is unhappy  with how Barclays treated her when she encountered 
financial difficulties. But this was some time after the PPI policy had been cancelled so I 
dont think Ms S financial difficulties were  caused, or made worse by the sale of the PPI.
Ms S seems to have complained to Barclays in June 2018,  and it wrote  to her in August 
2018 upholding the complaint and offered to pay fair compensation. So in my view it handled 
Ms S complaint within a reasonable timescale.
my final decision
My final decision is that the compensation already paid to Ms S is fair in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
So I make no further  award against Barclays UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2472422