K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Vitality  Health Limited handled his travel insurance  claim  after 
he had an injury abroad, and that it hasnt  paid his full claim.
My references to Vitality  include its agents. 
background
Mr C hurt his back while abroad. He stayed with a friend until he was fit to fly back to the UK. 
He contacted Vitality  for information about the expenses he could claim, but was concerned  
at its lack of contact. When he made a claim Vitality didnt pay his accommodation costs. He 
complained. 
Vitality explained  that its policy didnt cover  an amount equal to the amount it would have  
paid had Mr C stayed  in a hotel for his extended  trip. It said sorry for its delay in contacting 
him, and offered £50 compensation. Mr C came to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Vitality should fairly pay more for Mr Cs claim. She thought  its 
compensation offer was reasonable. Mr C didnt agree  so the complaints  come  to me for 
review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Vitality  has made a fair offer so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why and in 
doing so Ill focus on what I consider are the central  issues.  
Mr C stayed with his friend for his extended  time abroad. He asked Vitality  to make a 
payment to him based  on the amount it would have paid him to stay in a hotel  or alternative 
type of accommodation.
I appreciate Mr C did keep his losses to a minimum, as required when making  any insurance 
claim and under the policy terms. But this doesnt  mean Vitality must  make an additional 
payment to him in lieu of hotel costs.  He would have been  covered for hotel costs to the 
same standard as any hotel hed already booked into. But he didnt stay in a hotel. 
Theres no cover under  his policy for this part of his claim. Vitality  doesnt have to pay Mr C 
an additional  amount because he saved  it hotel expenses where he didnt actually stay in a 
hotel. 
Vitality accepted there was a delay of around two weeks in returning to Mr C when he asked 
for information about his expenses. I dont think this prejudiced his position  but it was 
inconvenient and frustrating for him to chase for a response. Ive reviewed his contacts with 
Vitality and I see it said sorry for its poor service. I think its offer to pay him £50 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  is reasonable so I dont require it to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN27555102my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Vitality Health Limited has made  a fair offer to resolve  this 
complaint, so I dont  uphold it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2755510