K822xcomplaint
Mr T is unhappy  with the service he received  from Union Reiseversicherung AG when he 
claimed on his travel  insurance policy. Although  Mr T is represented  by his brother Ill refer to 
all representations  as being made by Mr T himself.  
background 
In 2018 Mr T was on holiday in Spain when he collapsed. He was taken to hospital  and 
admitted with symptoms  of headaches,  slurred speech and loss of mobility to one side of his 
body. He was diagnosed  with a brain  tumour. The treating doctor  wanted  to repatriate Mr T 
back to the UK. Mr T says that URV refused to do this and the service  he received was very 
poor as he wasnt kept updated. Mr T says, in summary, that he was left without treatment 
and wasnt kept up to date about what was happening. 
URV acknowledged that they failed to meet  the standards they aim for. They said Mr T had 
been left in the dark and very anxious  when he was clearly  in need of extra  empathy and 
support. URV also explained that they experienced problems in getting  a medical report  and 
they needed to ensure it was safe to fly Mr T home due to his condition.  So, they offered 
Mr T £500 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought  the £500 that was offered was 
fair. She noted  that whilst there were failings in the service Mr T received it didnt impact on 
the timescales for repatriation. This was because URV had concerns about Mr Ts fitness to 
fly and they wanted to see another  scan to check that it was safe for the repatriation  to take 
place. Mr T doesnt agree   he says £5000 compensation  would be more appropriate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly,  both between  itself and 
its customers and between a customer and another client. 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress
Ref: DRN28443142(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Experiencing a medical emergency abroad  is upsetting and stressful.  My role is to decide 
whether URV acted  fairly  and responded appropriately to Mr Ts circumstances. I do think  
there were failings in how the claim was handled.  But I think the offer of £500  is fair and 
reasonable for the following reasons:
URV didnt contact the treating  hospital until Mr T had been there for around four 
days. The consent form was provided to URV within around 48 hours of Mr T being  
admitted. I think URV could have made contact with the treating hospital  sooner than 
they did. But, it took the hospital  some time to send a medical  report to URV, even 
when URV did start regularly chasing the hospital for it. So, I dont think this delay 
significantly impacted  on Mr Ts repatriation to the UK as it took several days to get a 
medical report and a further scan was needed.
Mr Ts brother was authorised as a point of contact. But he had to chase URV  a lot 
for updates both by email and by phone.  I think URV could have been much more  
proactive about communicating with both Mr T and his brother. For example, they 
could have given  a clearer explanation  about what was causing the delay in 
repatriation and explained in more detail what they were doing  to progress the plans 
to get Mr T home.
I can see from the emails and call notes how upset and frustrated Mr Ts brother  was 
with the situation. However, Im unable to make an award  to Mr Ts brother as he isnt 
party to the contract of insurance with URV. So, I can only consider the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr T by URVs  actions.  However, I dont doubt that the family  found 
this a difficult and challenging experience particularly  as they werent  getting  regular 
updates and didnt initially know what was wrong with Mr T. I also think  that because 
Mr Ts brother wasnt getting clear updates this meant Mr T was unclear about what 
was happening and that added to the distress  caused to Mr T.
From  the 26 June onwards URV were chasing the medical  report from the hospital. 
Sometimes they couldnt get a reply  and the hospital were also saying that they 
wouldnt provide  a report until Mr T was discharged. The report  was finally sent to 
URV on 29 June and reviewed the same day by the medical  team 
The review established  that URV wanted to get an updated scan in order  to make a 
decision about Mr Ts fitness to fly. Theres a detailed contemporary note from the 
medical officer reviewing the case about  why he thought that was needed. But its 
disappointing to see that this wasnt actioned  again for a few days 
By this point URV had been made aware Mr T was struggling and I can see that they 
made repeated  attempts to contact him by phone on the 30 June. The calls either  cut 
off or werent answered. On the same day URV tried to call the hospital but the call 
ended because of the language barrier. I also note there were  other occasions when 
URV tried to contact  Mr T but they werent  able to do so for similar  reasons
Ref: DRN28443143On 2 July the British  Consulate contacted  URV. On the same day URV  called  the 
hospital and they were  able to talk to the treating doctor. URV also spoke to Mr T 
during that day. The next day, after the scan had been  completed,  URV spoke with 
the treating hospital and the repatriation plan was finalised  on the 4 July. Mr T 
returned to the UK shortly afterwards on a commercial flight  with a nurse escort 
I bear in mind the overall circumstances of this case. Mr T was in hospital  for around 
two weeks before the repatriation plan was put in place. But, ultimately, URV didnt 
have the information from the second CT scan until 3 July. And repatriation  was 
organised within  a reasonable time scale following the results of the scan  being 
received. During the time Mr T was in Spain he had access  to treatment and he 
hasnt expressed any concerns about the standard of care he was receiving there.  
And, in any event, Ive also not seen any medical evidence  which  confirms  Mr Ts 
health suffered  in the long term because  of the service URV provided.  So, all of this 
leads me to conclude  the suggested  settlement of £500 is fair. 
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint because I think the suggested settlement of £500 is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2844314