K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited. He is unhappy with the 
service he has received from them. He says he has been charged annual  fees without it 
providing any on-going  advice.  He has also complained about  the poor performance of his 
pension.
background
Ascot Lloyd advised Mr K to transfer  his existing pension valued  at around £127,000 to a 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP)  in November 2013. Mr K complained  to Ascot  Lloyd 
in March 2018. He said he was unhappy  with the lack of response  to his enquiries  and the 
level of service he had received from Ascot  Lloyd since  transferring his pension.  
Ascot Lloyd sent their final response  letter  in May 2018. In the letter,  they explained that 
theyd received over £6,000 in fees since the SIPP was set up, plus a further £100 which 
was paid to Ascot Lloyd by the SIPP provider in November 2013. Ascot Lloyd accepted  that, 
whilst thered been some contact with Mr K from 2013 to 2017,  no reviews  had taken place. 
Ascot Lloyd also said that it wasnt clear whether the failure to carry of the reviews was due 
to their omission or because Mr K had declined any offers of reviews.
Ascot Lloyd partially upheld Mr Ks complaint and offered  to refund him half of the fees 
theyd charged him. Ascot Lloyd  explained  that Mr Ks complaint regarding  performance 
wasnt upheld as he was provided with risk warnings about  past performance  in the 
suitability report.  Mr K didnt accept  the offer and the complaint was referred  to this service.
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  and felt it should be upheld.  He noted the 
financial planning report which set out the advice to Mr K stated the following:
It is important that we regularly review your financial  arrangements  as your circumstances 
and attitude to risk will almost certainly change over time. We contact our clients on at least 
an annual basis to offer a review of their financial affairs.
The adjudicator said that he would have  expected  Ascot Lloyd to have contacted Mr K at 
least annually to offer him a review and he had seen no evidence  of that happening. The 
adjudicator felt that, as the fees were charged in anticipation of the provision of regular  
reviews, Ascot Lloyd  should refund Mr K all of the fees they had charged to date and bring 
the payments  up to date in line with the performance of the investments within the SIPP. 
Regarding the complaint about  investment  performance, it was the adjudicators opinion that 
Ascot Lloyd had correctly  assessed Mr Ks risk profile and invested his pension in line with it. 
And because of this the adjudicator didnt uphold that part the complaint. 
Ascot Lloyd didnt  agree  saying that the on-going fees werent solely  dependent  on the 
provision of an annual  review of Mr Ks pension. There  were other tasks which could  attract 
charges.
Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicator on the issue  of performance and asked that the 
ombudsman consider that.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN23878842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read everything but this decision will 
address those issues which I think are central  to the outcome.
I agree  with the adjudicator. I uphold  this complaint in part and direct  that Ascot  Lloyd 
reimburse Mr K for all the fees it has charged. I dont  uphold  Mr Ks complaint about  
investment performance. 
In its agreement with Mr K, Ascot Lloyd said that it would  make an adviser charge for 
ongoing advice  and services which will include  our regular  reviews of your investment, 
general financial advice  and recommendations.
Mr K says that there  have been no reviews,  advice or recommendations since  2013 when 
the transfer took place.
Ascot Lloyd has not provided any evidence that reviews, advice or recommendations were 
actually made or took place but it says that the fees charged also cover  the cost of 
administration, so its unfair to refund all the fees.
Im satisfied that in addition to paying advice fees Mr K faced a separate charge to the SIPP 
provider which would  primarily  cover  the cost of administration.  Ascot  Lloyd doesnt appear 
to have provided any advice, recommendations or reviews which were, I think, intended to 
be its primary contribution for which  it would  make a charge.  So I think its fair that it should  
reimburse Mr K for all these charges  as its not done enough to justify  them.
However, I dont uphold the complaint  in respect of investment  performance.  Some  
investments perform better than others.  The fact that another pension Mr K has seems  to 
have performed better is not a reason to uphold this complaint. Mr K has invested  in a 
portfolio of funds.  The performance of that fund will depend on investment decisions which 
involve skill, expertise and the use of professional judgement and management  discretion by 
the fund managers. These decisions will often involve subjective choices and its not the role 
of this service to interrogate the decisions that have  been  taken and use hindsight to assess  
whether they were  good or bad. And we dont  generally consider  complaints that relate 
purely to investment performance.  
As the adjudicator said, the selected portfolio appears to match  Mr Ks attitude to risk. It 
invests in a wide range of assets and it doesnt appear to be obviously unsuitable for him.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr K as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  be in now had he not been charged  any fees by Ascot Lloyd. 
So it should  calculate what the value  of the pension would  now be if its charges hadnt been 
deducted. So this will involve calculating any loss of growth on the sums deducted.
To compensate Mr K fairly  Ascot Lloyd  must:
Pay an amount equal to the charges it has received into Mr Ks pension  and bring the 
payment up to date.  For example Mr K was charged a fee of £111.30 in September 
2014. When compensating Mr K, the fees should  be brought  up to date as if Mr K 
Ref: DRN23878843had invested (or not disinvested) that amount into his pension account on that date, 
in line with his other  investments.
Ascot Lloyd shouldnt  pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance.
If Ascot Lloyd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr K's pension plan, it should  
pay that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income.  Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income  tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The 
notional allowance  should be calculated using Mr K's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr K is likely to be a basic 
rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, the reduction would  equal  the current  
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr K would  have been able to take a tax free lump sum, 
the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Ascot Lloyd must  pay Mr K £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. The lack of response to him and the failure to provide a service  will no doubt 
have been frustrating.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If you consider that youre required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from that interest,  you should tell 
Mr K how much youve taken off. You should  also give Mr K a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs 
if appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  about Ascot Lloyd Financial Services Limited in part. It must calculate 
and pay redress as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2387884