K821x#15complaint
Ms O says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance policy (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a store card in 2003.
The PPI was sold to Ms O by a third party but FICL have accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL did not respond to the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Os complaint because I dont think  FICL gave her clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because although the basic  cost of the policy was 
included on Ms Os credit agreement, I cant see that steps were  taken  to fully explain how 
much the policy  was going to cost her. For example, its not clear  if there  was any mention of 
how interest would be charged on the premiums if there was an outstanding balance.  So I 
dont think Ms O was made  aware of the true costs of the policy
Ms O says her employer provided  her with 6 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay 
if she was too ill to work. FICL says that based  on her employment and length of service,  it 
does not think  she would  have received this much  sick pay. Ive looked  into the guidelines on 
what sick pay Ms O would have received in her role. I acknowledge that she may not have 
yet been entitled to 6 months  full pay followed  by 6 months half pay, but I think  she would 
likely have been entitled to at least 5 months full sick pay and 5 months half pay. And while  
I appreciate the benefit of the policy was relatively  high, so was the cost. So given  what we 
know about the benefits she wouldve likely received from her employer, I dont think the 
policy wouldve been good value for money in her circumstances.  
I think that if shed been  given clear  information about the true costs  of the policy  she 
wouldnt have taken  it out. And I think Ms O has lost out because  of what  FICL  did wrong. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms O in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms O would have owed when she closed her account  if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN26817102So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms O owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms O made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms O would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms O would have owed each month without  PPI  Ms O 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms O paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms O 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year 
from then on.
D.FICL should tell Ms O what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms O a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Os complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2681710