K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax has refused her access  to her 
money.
background
Mrs B says she attended a Halifax branch with her son in law to close  her accounts.  She 
says that request was denied and that she and her son in law were  bullied by staff and the 
police were called.  Mrs B says Halifax has kept her money and that as a result  shes lost 
interest on that money.
Halifax says both Mrs B and her son in law attended  its branch in December 2018. It says its 
staff asked Mrs B to confirm that she wanted  to close the accounts and says she said she 
didnt understand.  It also says it was told that Mrs Bs daughter held a Power Of Attorney 
(POA) over her mothers affairs  and so suggested that the POA  be registered on the 
account. Halifax says it had reasonable concerns and followed it protocol in these 
circumstances by calling the police. It says Mrs Bs daughter did attend the branch but it was 
confirmed she didnt  hold a POA. Halifax has said it will close  the accounts or allow  a POA to 
be registered if its been obtained and has provided  details of the evidence  it needs to do so 
from Mrs B.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator thought  Halifax  had acted reasonably where  it had concerns and didnt think 
it was our role to interfere  in those sorts of commercial decisions.  The adjudicator also 
thought that Halifax had provided sufficient information for Mrs B to close the accounts.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says Halifax hasnt  provided  any reasons why its kept 
her money or why it judged her to be vulnerable.  She would  like the accounts  closed  and 
compensation for the interest  shes lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mrs B will be disappointed  by my decision.
Im satisfied that banks  and building societies must have  security measures in place to 
protect its customers  money. I appreciate that in this case Mrs B was trying to close  her 
accounts assisted  by her son in law. But I also think that as soon as the issue  of a POA was 
raised then Halifax  was entitled to have reasonable concerns. I also think  that if Halifax staff 
came to the conclusion that Mrs B didnt understand  what was happening then it was entitled 
to follow  its protocol in those circumstances. I appreciate that the calling of the police would 
have caused some distress but equally I think Halifax  acted reasonably by trying  to ensure 
its customers money was protected. I dont think that implies that Mrs Bs son in law was 
trying to steal her money.
We are not the regulator of banks and building societies  and so I cant fairly tell a business 
what its procedures and protocols should be in these sorts of circumstances. But I dont think 
Halifax has acted unreasonably here.
Im satisfied that Halifax explained to Mrs B what she needs to do in order  to close the 
accounts. Mrs B hasnt explained  to me why she hasnt done so. I think  Halifax has 
Ref: DRN23996422explained the documents it needs to close the accounts and transfer the money or that it 
requires Mrs Bs daughter  to register the POA if she has now obtained it. So I think Halifax in 
those circumstances  hasnt refused to close the account or prevented  access to it.
Overall Im satisfied that Halifax  tried to act in Mrs Bs best interests. If she wishes to transfer 
her money I cant see any reason why she cant do so. As I dont think  Halifax has acted  
unfairly or made a mistake I cant order it to pay Mrs B compensation for any loss of interest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399642