K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr N says Lloyds  Bank  Plc trading as Cheltenham  and Gloucester Plc 
(C&G) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why:
C&G had to make Mr N aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his mortgage. Mr N has told us that he wasnt  aware  he had taken the policy and it was 
added without his consent. I cant be certain  what was said at the time the policy was sold 
but C&G  has provided a copy of the available paperwork. An application form separate  to 
Mr Ns mortgage was completed and signed  by Mr N to take PPI. So I think its likely Mr N 
would have known  the PPI was separate from his mortgage, that C&G made it clear that 
Mr N didnt have to take out the PPI, and that he chose to take it out  although  I can 
understand why he may not remember this.
C&G recommended the PPI to Mr N so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr N 
has told us that he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer when he took the policy. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Ns sick pay and for longer. Based on what  Ive 
seen of Mr Ns circumstances at the time, I think the policy was right for him. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information C&G gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means C&G doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But C&G will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because:  
C&G  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  C&G didnt tell Mr N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, C&G has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr N has said - including  what hes said about having reasons  
to claim under the policy, but that he didnt as he wasnt aware he had it. But I dont  think this 
Ref: DRN25088812means the policy was mis-sold. If Mr N would like to attempt a retrospective claim under the 
policy he should contact  the insurer directly. These points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
C&G has to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. C&G should also pay back to Mr N any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
C&G should pay back to Mr N the extra  he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. C&G  should also pay Mr N 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr N can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2508881