K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank  Plc removed a longstanding overdraft facility from his 
bank account.  And he wants the annual fees he said hed paid for this benefit refunded to 
him. 
background
Mr R said he obtained the Midland Gold MasterCard  (MasterCard)  in 1988. He said it 
incorporated a charge  card with a £10,000 limit and a £10,000 unsecured overdraft  facility  
on his then sole current account. In 1989  when he married, his sole account  was changed to 
a joint account  with the overdraft facility retained.
In April 2013, after he divorced, Mr R asked his bank  now HSBC - to revert his joint 
account back to a sole account.  He said he had the agreement of his ex-wife  to remove her 
from the account. But was told by HSBC  that the joint account needed to be closed and a 
new sole account opened up for him. Mr R said he expected the £10,000 overdraft facility to 
be carried over to his new sole account.  But HSBC said the standard  £1500 overdraft facility  
would be applied, as anything more needed to be referred to its lending department. His 
overdraft request was referred but wasnt approved. Mr R wasnt happy about  this but at the 
time said he wasnt in a position to make a complaint.
In March 2019, Mr R was experiencing some financial difficulty  and approached HSBC.  
Mr R said the MasterCard  was a packaged bank account and as he was still paying  its 
annual fee, the benefit of the overdraft facility should be restored to his current account.  And 
that when his current account was closed, the annual fee associated to the packaged 
account should have stopped. 
He also said his credit  report showed incorrect information about an outstanding  balance on 
a credit card as this borrowing didnt  exist. Mr R thinks he was declined  a 0% loan and had 
to take out finance on higher interest  terms because of this inaccuracy.
Mr R complained to HSBC, he wanted it to:
restore the £10,000 overdraft facility;
correct the balance of a credit card showing on his credit report; 
refund  the annual  fees totalling £750  paid as part of his MasterCard account; and 
compensate him for his trouble and upset.
HSBC said the MasterCard wasnt a packaged account it said the annual fee was for the 
features and benefits of the card only. And that Mr Rs request to have his overdraft facility 
restored was assessed by its underwriters. And as a responsible lender it was unable  to 
approve the increase.
HSBC also said that a Welcome Pack would have  been sent to Mr R when the sole account  
was opened in April 2013. It said the pack would have included  the terms and conditions 
about the overdraft facility. 
HSBC said in 2016 Mr R had reported  fraudulent activity on his credit card. It had refunded 
these transactions  back to his card in December  2016. But HSBC, in response to Mr Rs 
complaint, had identified in April 2019 that his credit  file hadnt been  corrected  and took 
action to do this. It paid Mr R £150 to reflect  the trouble and upset this had caused.
Ref: DRN27473872Mr R wasnt happy with the response and referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the MasterCard and sole account were two different products, and that 
HSBC, as a responsible lender, had made  a commercial lending  decision in not increasing 
Mr Rs overdraft. And that the annual fee was applied  only to the card. She also said the 
outstanding balance on Mr Rs credit file had been  corrected by HSBC. 
Mr R didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In looking into Mr Rs complaint I have looked at the evidence that has been provided by 
both parties. And for ease  of reading I have listed the key parts of Mr Rs complaint below.
MasterCard
In 1988, Mr R was eligible  for the MasterCard  as he was then an employee of Midland  Bank, 
now HSBC. The card wasnt  a credit card but a charge card which  meant the full balance  
had to be paid each month. 
The terms and conditions  said:
Any overdraft facility is covered by separate terms and conditions.  All Midland Gold 
MasterCard customers must hold and maintain  a Midland  current  account
Mr R did have to have  a Midland bank account  as it was one of the criteria  of having the 
MasterCard. But the terms and conditions make  clear the overdraft facility was separate  
from the MasterCard. The bank account was only required as the balance  of the card had to 
be paid off each  month  by direct debit from the bank account.
The MasterCard carried an annual  fee for the benefits, associated with it; these included  
annual travel insurance, loyalty scheme and Card Guard. An additional  benefit  for Mr R, as a 
Midland Bank employee, was that the fee was waived.  
I think its likely that Midland Bank  would have  explained  the benefits  associated with the 
MasterCard and provided some information  - at least at a basic level. And given  
Mr R was an employee at the time, he should have  known  about the MasterCard  and what it 
offered. So, I think its likely  Mr R chose to have the MasterCard because  he wanted  what it 
included. 
In 1999 as Mr R was now no longer an employee of Midland Bank the annual fee was 
applied to the card. 
Mr R has asked that this fee is refunded from April 2013, when his joint bank account was 
closed and his sole bank account opened  with a reduced overdraft  facility  of £1500. But as 
Ive outlined above the two products have different terms and conditions. And the overdraft 
Ref: DRN27473873facility wasnt one of the benefits. So the fee was being charged for the benefits associated  
to the MasterCard  and not for the overdraft  facility.
So I cant say that the fee has been  applied incorrectly since April 2013, when Mr Rs joint 
bank account  was closed and the £10,000 overdraft  facility removed.
 
So I wont  be asking HSBC to pay back any incurred fees.
Overdraft facility
Overdrafts are available on most current accounts but are subject to approval and 
dependant on the bank's  normal  lending criteria.  It isnt for me to tell the bank what  lending 
criteria they should  use before agreeing  to lend to someone.  And an overdraft is repayable  
on demand. This means  the bank can, at any time (within reason), ask the customer  to 
repay it.
Mr Rs £10,000 overdraft  facility remained when his current account  was changed from a 
sole account to a joint account  with his wife. And Mr R didnt want  to close the current  
account, after his divorce, he wanted  his ex-wife to be removed from it, and had her 
permission for this to happen. But HSBC said it couldnt simply remove her from the account. 
It said the joint account had to be closed  and a new account opened  solely in Mr Rs name. 
In its terms and conditions  it says:
We will not accept instructions to convert  a joint account  to a sole account, even 
where those instructions are provided by all joint account holders.
So Im satisfied HSBC  acted reasonably in closing his joint account  and requiring Mr R to 
open a new account solely in his name.  And Mr R agreed to do this.
The Banking Lending codes says customers will be given  clear information about products 
and services before,  during and after the point of sale,  including how they work, their terms 
and conditions and the interest  rates and charges that apply to them. HSBC has said that as 
a matter of course  a Welcome Pack was given to Mr R, in April 2013, on opening  his sole 
account. And I have  no reason to doubt this.
Usually when a bank  intends to close an account,  we would expect it to give enough  notice 
so that the account holder  can manage their money. But this wasnt  a case of closing Mr Rs 
banking facility with it but changing  from a joint account to a sole account.
Ive considered the impact on Mr R in HSBC closing the account and opening him a new 
sole account. To see if this was fair in allowing Mr R a reasonable time to manage  the 
reduction in his overdraft  facility.  
Mr R said he rarely used the facility  so I think it was more Mr R wanted to retain the facility 
should he ever need  to use it. And HSBC in its terms  and conditions says:
Unless we have agreed other terms with you in writing, we may at any time end or 
reduce your overdraft and demand  in writing  that you pay any money you owe us 
immediately.
Ref: DRN27473874Mr R said hed asked at the time for the overdraft facility on his sole account to reflect the 
same limit hed previously had. But before lending any money, including an overdraft, HSBC 
assessed whether  Mr R was able to repay  it in a sustainable manner. HSBC said as a 
responsible lender, it didnt want to put Mr Rs financial position at risk, so it declined his 
request. 
Mr R didnt complain about  the decision as he said he was extremely  busy at the time. 
I can understand why Mr R is frustrated by having a long held facility  removed  but Im 
satisfied that HSBC in reducing Mr Rs overdraft facility acted fairly  and reasonably. And that 
there wasnt any detrimental impact on Mr R, at the time.  
But in March 2019 Mr R asked HSBC to increase his overdraft facility  as he said he had 
additional costs  from his divorce and was temporarily in financial need.  
Financial difficulties
What I need to decide here is whether HSBC acted fairly  in its dealings with Mr R and 
whether they should have been aware of his being in financial difficulties. 
Banks are required to treat customers in financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. 
Signs or indicators that a personal  customer may be at risk of being in financial difficulties 
may include:
 regular  unarranged overdrafts or excesses on agreed overdraft facilities;
 high or increasing numbers of unarranged overdraft charges being incurred by the 
customer.
In March 2019 when Mr R said he was temporarily  in difficulty because  of costs resulting 
from his divorce he asked for his overdraft facility to be increased from £1500  to £8000. 
HSBC wrote to him, 4 March 2019,  saying his application for increased  lending had been 
declined. 
And I think it was this that prompted Mr R to question why he no longer had his longstanding 
overdraft facility of £10,000,  and why he was still paying the fee for his MasterCard. I can 
see from then he was in regular contact with HSBC  about his overdraft facility and his 
MasterCard annual  fees.  But I cant see that Mr R expanded any further about his financial 
difficulties.
Mr R was sent several letters between April 2019 and May 2019 from HSBC  advising him 
that it hadnt paid some of his direct debits  as this would have taken him over his arranged  
overdraft. By HSBC doing this it prevented Mr R from going  over his arranged  overdraft and 
incurring additional  charges and interest  to his account. 
HSBC didnt charge  Mr R for the direct  debits being  returned. HSBC has provided details of 
the charges that have been  applied to Mr Rs account since  2015, I think these were minimal 
and I havent seen any evidence that they caused  Mr R any further financial hardship. 
I can also see that in HSBCs letters of response about his overdraft  facility  there is a section 
in the letter  that offers a telephone number for its Financial Guidance  Team, if financial 
difficulty was being experienced. I cant find any record of Mr R using this contact point.
Ref: DRN27473875So, I dont think HSBC  needed to do anything differently  for Mr R.
Outstanding credit card balance
Mr R said that when  he checked his current credit report  he saw a balance of £15,842 on a 
credit card that had a limit of £15,000.  And on 6 April 2019  he was told by a customer 
service representative  that no such borrowing existed. I can see that the balance  of £15,842 
was outstanding in November 2016 and that HSBC had refunded disputed transactions  in 
December 2016.
HSBC wrote to Mr R in April 2019  and advised  him that it had corrected his details and paid 
him £150 to compensate him for his trouble and upset.
Having spoken  to HSBC to determine  why Mr Rs credit file was corrected in April 2019, its 
confirmed that when the fraud was reported  and refunded in December 2016  the account  
status history didnt transfer  correctly to report under Mr Rs new replacement  card.  This 
meant two cards were  being reported  on his credit file. 
But HSBC  has also shown it explained  this to Mr R, on 2 May 2019, and had told him that it 
had corrected the account status  to show the card which had been fraudulently used had 
been closed with a nil balance, and gave  reassurance  that this wouldnt have a negative 
impact on his credit file. HSBC also acknowledged the level of trouble and upset caused to 
Mr R and had increased its payment to him from £150  to £500.  
Mr R has said he had been  declined for a loan at a lower interest rate and thinks  the 
inaccuracy on his credit file is the cause of this. But while that is possible I cant know what 
weight would be attached by a lender  to any adverse information as this is dependent on 
each lenders criterion. The decision to bear the risk of any lending has to sit with the lender. 
And a business must undertake a reasonable assessment of the credit worthiness of a 
customer before entering into a regulated  credit  agreement. So, I dont think  there is enough 
evidence to show this caused Mr R actual financial loss.
HSBC has corrected Mr Rs credit  file and accepted he has experienced trouble and upset  
because it hadnt  been able to merge the cards on his account. It isnt our role to punish  a 
business when  its done something  wrong  but to look at putting  things  right. And I think the 
£500 HSBC has paid is appropriate in this instance so I wont be asking it to do anything 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2747387