K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about three  instalment loans he took out with Gain  Credit LLC (trading  
as Lending Stream).  He says that the loans were  unaffordable.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and Lending Stream had told us. And she 
thought that the checks Lending  Stream carried out before giving Mr S his loans were  
proportionate. So she didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ss complaint.  
Mr S was provided with a high-interest loan, intended for short-term  use. So Lending Stream  
needed to make sure that it didnt provide it irresponsibly.  In practice, what this means is that 
Lending Stream needed  to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr S before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr S took out three instalment loans between March  2017 and August 2017. The loans were 
due to be repaid  over a period of around six months. But all of those the loans  were  repaid 
early.  
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr S applications after hed provided  details  of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr S provided on his income and 
expenditure showed that hed be able to comfortably make the repayments he was 
committing to. And in these circumstances  it was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr S and Lending Stream  have  said.  The first thing for me 
to say is that these  were  Mr S first loans  with Lending Stream.  So I dont think  there was any 
established pattern  in Mr S borrowing needs  at this stage.
The information provided does suggest that Mr S was asked to provide details of his income 
and expenditure.  Bearing  in mind the amount of the monthly repayments,  the questions  
Ref: DRN24347342Lending Stream asked  Mr S and these were  Mr S first loans, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for Lending Stream to rely on the information Mr S was providing.
I accept that Mr S actual  circumstances may not reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other  information Lending Stream obtained. But Lending Stream could only 
make its decision based  on the information it had available  at the time. And, at this stage of 
the lending relationship, I dont think proportionate  checks wouldve extended into Lending 
Stream carrying out a full review of Mr S finances.   
Id also add that its only fair for me to uphold a complaint where I can safely  say a lender did 
something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream  did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Mr S - it carried out proportionate check even  though its possible the 
information it mightve been provided  with was inaccurate. 
Lending Stream reasonably relied  on the information provided and given the amount of the 
repayments involved and Mr S loan history, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Lending 
Stream to lend  especially  as there  wasnt anything  obvious, in the information it had, to 
suggest Mr S wouldnt be able to sustainably repay these loans.
So overall I think the checks Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. As this is the 
case, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr S. 
But I hope shell understand  the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his 
concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434734