K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Miss F says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss F opened a store card account in a shop in 1996. At the same time,  she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Miss Fs card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included life cover  and purchase protection  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss F disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Fs application for the store  card. It includes a section headed 
Protection for your payments and purchase cover. In that section it briefly outlines the 
purpose of PPI. And theres  a box to tick if the applicant wishes to take the cover. 
Miss Fs initials are written in the box.
Miss F says she didnt sign for the PPI. She says she believes the box may have been 
initialled by a member  of staff at the shop. Shes pointed out that a name  is written  under 
the initialled  box. The name  isnt Miss Fs, and it looks as if it was probably the name of a 
member of staff at the shop. Miss F has also suggested that the PPI may have been  
added after the agreement was signed.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss F has said. Id need  strong  evidence  to persuade 
me that the PPI was added to the account without her consent.  And Ive borne in mind 
that shes also told us that she was told that the PPI would be required when opening an 
account or the application would not be accepted. 
Ref: DRN26927982Miss F opened the store card account  more than 20 years  ago. And memories can and 
do fade.  It wouldnt  be fair of me to conclude that she was told she wouldnt be given the 
card if she didnt take the cover, based purely  on her recollection of what happened so 
long ago.
From  what shes told us, it seems that Miss F was aware  when she applied for the card 
that PPI was available. And I think it would have been clear from the way PPI was 
referred to on the application form that it was optional.  I acknowledge that Miss F says 
she doesnt remember verbally accepting the cover, which she says she didnt want  or 
need. But Im satisfied that the premiums for the PPI would  have been  shown on 
Miss Fs store card statements. So if she hadnt consented to the cover being added  to 
her account, Id have  expected her to raise this with FICL at the time. Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that she did so.
It isnt clear why what appears to be a member of staffs name is written under the box 
containing Miss Fs initials in the PPI section of the application form. But overall,  I think  
its most  likely that the PPI was added to Miss Fs account because  she agreed to take 
the cover   although I can understand how she may no longer  remember this so many 
years later.
From what we know about  the way this type of PPI was sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that FICL recommended the PPI to Miss F. That means it didnt have to check  
that it was right for her. It was for Miss F to decide whether to take the cover,  knowing 
what other means shed have  had of making  her store card repayments if she was off 
sick, or if she lost her job. But FICL did have a responsibility to give Miss F clear enough 
information to enable  her to decide whether the policy  was right for her.
Miss F has told us that she cant  how much  sick pay shed have been entitled to from her 
employer at the time. If shed made  a successful claim on the policy for accident, 
sickness or unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit  of 15% of what  she 
owed on her store card. And it would have done  this each month until her credit  
agreement ended, or she returned to work, or the outstanding  balance at time of her 
claim had been repaid- whichever happened first.
So the policy would potentially have covered Miss F for longer than any sick pay shed 
have been entitled  to. Whats more, it would have  paid out in addition  to any payments 
she received from her employer, allowing her to use those to cover  other  day-to-day  
expenses.
I acknowledge that Miss F says her family would have helped her, if need be. But 
circumstances can change, and I cant be sure that her family  would  have been  in a 
position to help if the need had arisen.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Miss F.
I accept  that its possible the information FICL gave Miss F about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have  been. But Im satisfied, on balance, that she chose to take out the PPI - 
so it looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes  understandably forgotten that 
now. She was eligible for the policy, and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of 
the main  things  it didnt cover  (for example  provisions about unusual  working 
arrangements or existing medical  conditions).  And Ive seen nothing to suggest  that the 
policy was unaffordable for Miss F.
Ref: DRN26927983Taking everything into account,  Im not convinced  that better information about  the PPI 
would have put Miss F off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result  of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out, my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2692798