K820x#14complaint
Mr Y has complained about his property insurance  broker Xbridge Limited. He says he told it 
he didnt want to renew but it called him anyway,  causing distress and inconvenience.
background
Shortly before his policies were  due to renew in October 2018  Mr Y received renewal 
documents showing that the premium for all three  properties covered had increased. He 
rang Xbridge (which  Mr Y will know by its trading name) to discuss  the price. 
Xbridge checked the prices and offered to provide some cashback  by way of reducing the 
price but explained that the price  was set by the insurer and was the lowest,  across its panel 
of insurers, that it could offer. Mr Y said hed definitely  have  to think about  whether to renew 
and it was agreed that the policy would be taken out of the auto-renew process. 
Around the time of renewal Mr Y began to receive  phone calls. The callers didnt leave 
messages. Mr Y ascertained that the calls were from Xbridge  and says he felt intimidated 
and harassed by it. He complained stating it had been agreed  that unless he called Xbridge 
to activate the renewal, he wouldnt hear from it again. 
Xbridge initially said it couldnt find any calls so Mr Y sent it proof.  The calls were then 
traced. Xbridge confirmed  it wouldnt call again  but said that in calling it had merely  been 
trying to carry out its duty of care to Mr Y, as a current policyholder, to make  sure he didnt 
have a lapse in cover. It felt it had acted  fairly.  Mr Y complained to this service.
Our adjudicator felt that, in the main, Xbridge  had done nothing wrong. But he felt it probably 
should have left at least one message to give Mr Y an indication as to why it was calling. He 
didnt think though that this failure warranted any compensation.  Mr Y asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Xbridge is a broker.  Its business is based  on selling and arranging insurance  cover for 
current and prospective  policyholders. I think its reasonable to take that into account when 
considering whether it acted fairly  when  trying to contact Mr Y after hed indicated  that he 
may not renew  via it.
At the point Mr Ys policy  was due to renew,  and because of his request  to take the cover  out 
of the auto-renew status, he was both a current customer of Xbridge and a prospective  
customer. And he hadnt told Xbridge that he definitely  didnt  want cover through it the 
following year. Nor had there been  any failure in the business relationship such  that Id say 
Xbridge should reasonably have been  aware or concluded that Mr Y definitely didnt want to 
trade with it anymore. Therefore, I think it was fair and reasonable for Xbridge to try and 
contact Mr Y as the point  of renewal approached,  to see whether he still needed  the policies 
it had previously arranged  for him.
Im also satisfied that the number of calls, particularly when taken in light of the fact that they 
occurred over a number of days,  as well as none of them came constantly or at generally 
Ref: DRN22558682unacceptable times of the day, wasnt of a level that Id equate with harassment. Although 
I appreciate that receiving  calls from a number that then doesnt leave a message might be 
frustrating and even  worrisome for some people. 
But I also understand that leaving  voice messages isnt always an appropriate thing  to do for 
a business. There  are data rules  to take into account and leaving a message simply takes 
time. It doesnt surprise me then that Xbridge says it has taken a business decision not to 
leave messages. Its also sometimes the case that businesses cant find calls that have been 
made or received without  evidence  as to when they were made or to/from which number. 
I note Xbridge  did find the calls in the end.
In the circumstances, having  considered the points from both sides,  Im not minded  to think 
an award of compensation would be fair or reasonable here. I dont award compensation in 
every instance of a failure by a business and my awards cant equate to a penalty.  I think 
Xbridge acted  fairly  and reasonably when  trying to contact Mr Y. Ideally it would have left a 
message for him but I understand why it didnt. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Xbridge  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2255868