K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the settlement offered to him by Allianz  Insurance Plc following his 
claim for accidental loss of an engagement  ring.
background
In September  2018 Mr P made a claim for his wifes engagement ring after it was lost. The 
ring was specified on the policy at a value of £3,500.  Mr P provided a copy of the receipt and 
photos of the ring. Allianz referred this to its jewellery specialist  as a result  of which  it offered 
a cash settlement of £2,700 net of the excess.  Alternatively its jewellers could  replace the 
ring. Mr P wasnt  happy with this and Allianz  told him it would consider a valuation  from his 
jewellers. He produced  this, which came out at £4,215.
Allianz maintained  that it could replace the ring. Mr Ps valuation didn't specify  the clarity of 
the diamond or the weight  of the platinum band. Mr P didnt want  Allianzs jewellers to 
replace the ring as he didnt think they would supply a ring of sufficient quality. Allianz sent 
Mr P a cheque for £2,700 which he declined to cash.
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld. He pointed  out that Allianz was able to source a replacement ring for less than 
the amount Mr Ps jewellers  would charge. 
Mr P pointed out that there were  two unknown variables, the clarity  of the diamond and the 
weight of the platinum band.  That being the case how could Allianz offer a replacement? 
Also he had the ring specified in the policy at £3,500 so he should be entitled  to payment for 
that amount.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianzs terms for handling  contents claims are set out in the policy under the "Contents  
what happens when  I make a contents claim? In respect of cash  settlements it says:
If we offer to repair or replace your contents  this will be through  our network of suppliers, 
but if we agree to pay you in cash,  then payment will not exceed the amount we would have
paid to our network  of suppliers.
Allianz says it can replace  the ring through  its supplier. Mr P doubts that is the case because  
of the two unknown elements (clarity of diamond,  weight of band). Im afraid  its up to him to 
provide those details  if he believes  the ring is worth more than Allianz has estimated it at. 
Ive noted that equally  his jeweller didnt mention the weight of the band or clarity of the 
diamond yet was able to quote for a replacement. Insurers are able to source  jewellery 
through their suppliers  for substantially less than a consumer might be able to buy through  
their chosen  jeweller.  So I think Allianzs cash settlement is fair. The type of policy term Ive 
quoted above is usual  in ordinary home  insurance policies.
Mr P has pointed  out that the ring is specified  at £3,500 so he should  be entitled to that. 
However Allianz has offered to replace the ring. Its Mr Ps choice to ask for a cash  
Ref: DRN21668512settlement. That being  the case,  the policy terms permit Allianz to settle the claim by basing 
the cash payment  on the amount it wouldve paid through its network of suppliers. On the 
question of quality  of replacement, again  the policy specifies that this will be through  its 
supplier. If Mr P doesnt  trust the quality of any replacement thats a matter  for him I dont 
think Mr P has been treated unfairly here.
So I think Allianz has acted reasonably.  If Mr P wants to accept the payment offered to him 
he should get in touch  with Allianz to ask whether he can cash the cheque provided  or 
whether it will issue  a new one.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2166851