K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained because  Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him with £6,841.21 for 
transactions which he said he hadnt made.
background
At around 8.20pm on 18 February 2018,  Mr A phoned Barclays  from his home in the UK. He 
said hed checked  his Barclaycard online,  and had seen four transactions  pending. He said 
he hadnt made these.  One took place  on 16 February at a retailer abroad, and three others  
took place earlier in the day on 18 February,  at an airport duty-free in the same country as 
the retailer transaction. 
Mr A told Barclays that he still had his card with him, and he wasnt abroad but was in the 
UK. He said hed never been to the country  in which the transactions had taken place,  and 
didnt know anyone whod been there. He said no-one else knew  his PIN. Barclays  cancelled 
Mr As card and investigated.
Mr As account was on a 0% promotional interest rate. Hed had a balance  of around £6,400 
and hed paid most  of this off on 23 January 2018.  Mr As credit limit on the card was £7,000. 
As Mr A had paid off most of his outstanding balance,  his credit limit was at the maximum 
£7,000 just before the disputed transactions which totalled £6,841.21.
Mr A had previously logged onto online banking on 24 January, then not until 18 February 
when he phoned  Barclays and reported the four transactions.
The computer records showed Barclays  that the card which  had been used for the four 
transactions was the genuine  card. The first transaction, at a retailer  on 16 February, had 
been authenticated using  the genuine card and a signature.  The other  three transactions, at 
the airport duty-free  on 18 February, had been authenticated using  the genuine card and the 
correct PIN. There had been no balance enquiries  just before the transactions,  and the PIN 
had been entered correctly first time.
As Mr A had told Barclays he still had his card when he reported  the disputed  transactions, 
Barclays asked him how his card could  have got to the country abroad,  then returned  back  
to Mr A. Mr A said he didnt know. 
Barclays finished its investigation and wrote to tell Mr A that it didnt accept his claim, and it 
was holding him liable for the disputed  transactions. Barclays explained that it had taken  into 
account the security  capability  of Mr As card, his security obligations under the terms and 
conditions, and the details of the payments hed disputed. Barclays  pointed  out that in phone  
calls and in the declaration form Mr A had signed  and returned, Mr A had said the card had 
always been in his possession, and the PIN was memorised and unknown to anyone else.
Following the investigation,  Barclays also closed Mr As credit card account. It told him he 
didnt have to pay back the full balance  immediately and could make  the minimum payment  
each month, but if he didnt make repayments  this could  negatively affect his credit file. 
Mr A wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint. He noted that the physical card had been 
used for the disputed  payments. Mr A had still had his card in his possession  when he 
Ref: DRN23814852reported the issue, and he said hed never written down his PIN. The last time Mr A said hed 
entered his PIN was at a petrol  station  on 5 January. And the investigator considered it was 
very unlikely  that someone would have stolen  Mr As card,  and watched his PIN, at that point 
but not used them fraudulently until 16 February. The investigator said that he believed Mr A 
had authorised the disputed transactions himself.
Mr A wasnt  satisfied. He said he wanted an ombudsman decision because he hadnt done 
the transactions himself.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place in February 2018 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  These say that the payment service provider (here,  
Barclays) must show the payment was authenticated.  Thats  the technical part, and here,  Mr 
As genuine card with its chip, and the correct  PIN, were used. So the disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. 
Whether Mr A authorised the payments himself
Mr A hadnt  reported  his card lost or stolen. And when he rang Barclays  on 18 February 
2018, he still had it in his possession. This is a significant stumbling block for Mr As 
argument. Thats because  the computer records show that the disputed  transactions all used 
the genuine card. I recognise  theres a lot of talk about cards being cloned.  But all cloning 
can do is make a copy of the various numbers etc on the card.  So a cloned, or copied,  card 
can be used, say, over the phone. But there has never been  an instance of a cards  chip 
being copied, because of the security involved in the technology.  And computer records can 
show whether or not the genuine physical card, with this chip,  was used to make  the 
payment. The computer records for the four transactions which  Mr A disputed  do indeed  
show that it was his genuine card which was used.
So the genuine card which Mr A had in his possession when he rang Barclays on 18 
February was definitely the one which had been  used  abroad for the transactions.
If Mr A didnt make the disputed transactions, someone must have stolen his card without his 
knowledge at some point before going  abroad, then used it abroad. Theyd have had to have 
flown home and returned  it unseen to Mr A within a matter of hours  of landing in the UK. Mr 
A said that the family  he lived with had also never  been to the location  abroad, so its not 
possible that they took and replaced  his card.  I consider  its highly unlikely that a third party  
unknown to Mr A could have stolen the card and returned it in this way.
Mr A still had his card when he phoned  Barclays on 18 February. But even if hed said he 
didnt have it  for example if his card had been  stolen at the petrol pump on 5 January  this 
Ref: DRN23814853would still have been questionable.  Thats because the terms and conditions require Mr A to 
have reported  any theft promptly. 
And any such fraudster would have had to have known Mr As PIN, which he said he hadnt  
written down. Theyd also have had to have known Mr As credit  limit, and the fact that he 
had cleared his balance  just a couple of weeks earlier, leaving his entire  £7,000 credit 
balance available. There were no failed PIN attempts or failed transactions  which  were  
rejected on the grounds of going over Mr As limit. I note that the disputed  transactions  took 
Mr As balance  to £6,841.21 which  was neatly just under his £7,000 limit.
Mr A didnt use this Barclays credit card regularly,  and its clear he had other facilities  
elsewhere. The last time hed logged on to his Barclays  account  was three weeks before 18 
February. Its a considerable coincidence that he happened to log on just after the disputed  
transactions had happened. Our investigator  asked  him why hed done so, and Mr A said it 
was because he wanted to see when his interest-free period expired (in fact this would have 
been July).
Ive also checked  the flight duration  for the location where the transactions happened. It was 
possible for Mr A to have  carried out the transactions at the airport  on 18 February, where 
the last of the three took place at 9.40 am UK time  and to have been back  at home by the 
time he phoned Barclays at 8.21 pm UK time.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its most  likely  that Mr A authorised the 
transactions himself.  So I do not require Barclays to refund  Mr A,
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2381485