K820x#14complaint
Miss B says when she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, CIS General Insurance 
Limited said she could  pay for her cars  salvage, but then wouldnt allow  her to do so, 
although shed  already  paid for the cars  repairs. Miss Bs represented by her brother, Mr M. 
background
In March 2018 CIS agreed to settle  a total loss claim for Miss Bs car. It paid the debt due to 
the finance company and passed on the sum remaining from the cars  valuation to Miss B. 
CIS then tried to contact Miss B and Mr M unsuccessfully over the next few months  by text 
and by letter  to arrange for the cars collection by a salvage agent. 
In July 2018 Mr M contacted CIS. He said there  had been a misunderstanding  and that 
Miss B had forgotten  to pay CIS the sum required for the cars salvage.  He asked if he could 
make the payment at that point on her behalf. The advisor  he spoke to gave Mr M the 
relevant bank details.  But he called Mr M 15 minutes  later to say that Mr M shouldnt make a 
payment, as the claim was still under review. 
Mr M complained to CIS. In its response, CIS said the advisor shouldnt have given him the 
banks details. It apologised  for the error.  Mr M told us he wanted CIS to return  the car to 
Miss B in exchange  for the salvage  charge or refund the cost of the repairs to the car. 
One of our adjudicators considered Miss Bs complaint. She thought CIS had made it clear in 
March 2018 that Miss Bs car was CISs property as it had settled the claim. So CIS wasnt  
to blame if Miss B had later decided  to pay for repairs to it. She thought CIS had acted 
reasonably by apologising for the error made by its advisor in providing bank details to Mr M. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think CISs advisor made  it clear to Miss B and Mr M in a call on 21 March 2018  that the car 
would belong to CIS once  it settled the claim. He said CIS would sell the car on for the 
salvage sum hed set out, given that Miss B had said she didnt want  to retain  the vehicle. 
I dont think CISs advisor caused any confusion during the call. Its not clear  why Miss B 
decided to pay for repairs to the car after this point, but I dont think its CISs fault. I dont 
agree with Mr M that CIS should now have to accept  the salvage  payment and return  the car 
or refund Miss Bs outlay  on repairs. Its for CIS to decide what it does with its property.
Mr M says neither he nor Miss B got any of CISs letters. As theyre recorded on CISs file I 
think its more likely  than not that they were sent. As far as I can see, Mr M hasnt  said 
anything about  the texts  that were sent to him and to Miss B. And I think the situation  was 
made clear to them in the initial call in March 2018 anyway. Both Mr M and Miss B confirmed 
that Miss B didnt want  to retain the car, so CIS settled  the claim in full. I dont think they can 
show that CIS caused a misunderstanding  about  the cars  ownership.
Ref: DRN24248702Ive listened to a call between Mr M and CISs  advisor on 23 July 2018. I think its clear  that 
the advisor wasnt familiar  with the file. He and Mr M discussed  several  issues. I think the 
advisor tried to ensure he gave Mr M the right advice, as he put him on hold and checked  
the facts with colleagues more than once. 
CIS has accepted  that the advisor  was wrong  to give Mr M the bank details  Miss B needed 
to pay for the salvage. But as it pointed out, he called  Mr M back  very quickly  to correct his 
error. And CIS apologised for the poor service it provided on this issue.  
I dont think Miss B and Mr M have been able to show that CIS acted  unreasonably  in not 
allowing Miss B to pay for the salvage several months after the claim was settled. I dont 
think it was to blame for any confusion on Miss Bs part or for the fact that she chose to pay 
a large sum for the cars repairs. And I think it dealt reasonably with the one service issue 
that was of concern. So I cant uphold Miss Bs complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2424870