K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Firstplus Financial  Group Plc mis-sold them a PPI policy. As Mr 
A has been bankrupt since he bought the policy, this complaint is also brought  by the Official 
Receiver.
background 
In December 2005, Firstplus lent Mr and Mrs A £33,000. Mr and Mrs A agreed to repay this 
over 144 months. Mr and Mrs A also bought  a PPI policy. The cost of the policy  was added 
to the loan  Mr and Mrs A borrowed an extra  £8,081.70 to pay for the PPI, and they would 
repay this amount, with interest, as part of their monthly loan repayments.
Mr and Mrs A think the PPI was mis-sold.
For a long time, this service was looking at which business was responsible for selling this 
policy. Firstplus lent the money, including the funds that paid for the PPI. But Mr and Mrs A 
applied for this policy through a broker  and it appeared that this broker may have been 
either acting  for another business or not have been  authorised to sell insurance at the time 
Mr and Mrs A applied  for this loan.
But Firstplus  has now made a goodwill offer to settle  Mr and Mrs As complaint. I looked at 
this offer,  and issued  my provisional findings on 3 February 2020. In my provisional decision,  
I explained that, based on what Id seen, the goodwill offer Firstplus  was what  Id expect a 
business to offer where a complaint about  the sale of PPI was upheld. And so I felt that, in all 
the circumstances, it was a fair resolution to Mr and Mrs As complaint.  I said Id consider  
any further information I received by 3 March  2020.
Firstplus have replied  to say that they have  no further points they want me to consider. They 
are prepared to make  an updated  offer,  as a gesture of goodwill, with no admission of 
liability. They  will pay this once it is accepted.
Mr and Mrs A do not agree with my findings. In summary, they feel that Firstpluss offer 
doesnt put them in the position theyd be in if the PPI policy  didnt exist.  They  point to the 
considerable delays in the consideration of their complaint and say my findings didnt take 
into account any wrongdoing  by Firstplus. They also think that compensation should  only be 
paid to the Official  Receiver in respect of payments Mr A made before his bankruptcy. They 
also question the basis of the compensation  they feel that all payments made from May 
2009 onwards  should  be treated  as payments towards the £33,000 they borrowed, and that 
interest should be recalculated accordingly.
The Official  Receiver  did not send me anything further to consider.  Ive therefore looked at 
the complaint  again.
Mr and Mrs A have  also mentioned concerns they have with the lending  and Firstpluss  
actions in pursuing this. But theyve confirmed  they plan to pursue this separately, and I 
havent looked at this in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21667342In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, Ive taken into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice, and (where appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
Ive carefully considered  the points raised by Mr and Mrs A and Firstplus. But they dont 
change my provisional conclusions. Ill explain why.
Firstplus has made  an offer to settle Mr and Mrs As complaint. So the question  for me to 
decide is whether  or not this offer is fair.
Ive looked at what Firstplus has offered. Mr and Mrs A borrowed an extra £8,081.70 to pay 
for the PPI. Firstplus  had worked out that Mr and Mrs A were charged  an additional 
£5,704.10 in interest because of the extra  they borrowed  and Im satisfied this reflects the 
extra interest they were  charged. Finally,  Firstplus has added further interest (the rate is 8% 
per year) to compensate Mr and Mrs A for the time theyve been out of pocket.
As Firstplus previously paid Mrs A compensation because  of the high level of commission 
and profit share it got, it proposes to deduct  this from the compensation.
So in total,  Firstplus proposed to pay £14,392.58. Im satisfied this reflects  the extra 
Mr and Mrs A have  had to pay because of the PPI. This will be split between Mrs A and the 
official receiver.
Ive considered the points Mr and Mrs A have made.
First, I note Mr and Mrs A object to the split of the compensation between  them  and the 
official receiver. But I dont think it would be appropriate for me to direct Firstplus  to split this 
compensation differently. Mr A has been  bankrupt, and so his right to compensation for mis-
sold PPI passed  to the Official Receiver  at that point. I think that how the compensation is 
divided is therefore a matter between Mr and Mrs A and the Official  Receiver,  and not 
something I should be involved in.
Second, I note Mr and Mrs A think this offer doesnt  put them in the position theyd be in if 
they hadnt bought  the policy. Leaving aside  what Ive said about the Official Receiver 
above, Im satisfied that the way Firstplus  has worked out this offer reflects the extra added 
to the loan to pay for the PPI and the extra interest that was charged because  of this.
I recognise that, as Mr and Mrs A stopped  paying  for the loan for periods while  they disputed 
this PPI, they have  also incurred  extra interest on the cash loan. Theyve  told me they did 
this because Firstplus  wouldnt acknowledge their PPI complaint. But this is something 
Mr and Mrs A chose  to do. I dont  think its reasonable  for Mr and Mrs A to stop repaying the 
loan entirely just because they have a dispute  with the business. Id expect Mr and Mrs A to 
keep making their payments if they were able to. Im satisfied that the delays in repaying the 
debt and any extra interest incurred is because Mr and Mrs A chose to stop making 
payments. There also were times when, because of their circumstances (Mr A has 
mentioned an accident  he had) they werent able to pay the debt  but I think that would 
have happened  even if they hadnt been  sold the PPI. Im satisfied the amount Firstplus  has 
offered includes the interest directly attributable to the PPI.
Ref: DRN21667343I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A feel that by refusing  to deal with the complaint at the outset 
Firstplus have aggravated the situation. But while there have been delays, Firstplus has also 
added simple interest to compensate Mr A, Mrs A and the Official Receiver for the time 
theyve been out of pocket. And to the extent that Mr and Mrs A didnt make payments 
towards this loan for long periods, I think the simple  interest is likely  to be more  than I would 
have awarded. 
I acknowledge that, by any view, this complaint has taken far too long to resolve. But as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  this is because for a long time this service  was 
considering which business was responsible for this complaint. This was not a 
straightforward issue  the broker who originally arranged the loan said he may have been 
acting for another business when  the policy was arranged. It appears this is also what the 
broker told Firstplus. When the other  business  denied having any involvement in the sale, 
the broker also suggested it may have been Firstplus that sold the policy.  Firstplus said the 
policy was sold by the broker. The broker himself was not authorised  to sell insurance in his 
own right.  This was therefore a complex and highly unusual situation. In the circumstances,  I 
dont award any further compensation for any delays. 
I note Mr and Mrs A feel that the compensation doesnt reflect the wrongdoing by Firstplus. 
Where I conclude  that a PPI policy shouldnt have been sold, though,  the compensation I 
award isnt designed to punish the business  but to put the consumers in the position theyd 
be in if things had happened as they should  have.  So though  Mr and Mrs A have given me 
many reasons why they dont think the policy should  have been  sold, I dont think  this 
warrants any additional compensation above what Firstplus has already  offered. 
Similarly, Mr A has mentioned a court judgment that means  Firstplus  is responsible  for the 
sale  though when we asked Mr A for more information about  this he said he didnt have it 
to hand. But for the reasons Ive already explained,  Im satisfied Firstpluss offer already 
includes fair compensation for delays.
Firstplus has now made  an offer to settle  the complaint. Im satisfied that the approach it has 
taken is in line with the offer Id expect  a business  to make if I decide that a complaint about  
the sale of PPI should be upheld. It includes fair compensation for the time Mr and Mrs A 
have been out of pocket.  And Im satisfied the total amount Firstplus has offered puts 
Mr and Mrs A and the Official Receiver, in the position theyd be in if the policy  hasnt been  
sold.
In all the circumstances, I think what Firstplus has offered is fair.
Ref: DRN21667344my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Firstplus  Financial  Group Plc has now 
offered fair compensation in relation to the circumstances alleged by Mr and Mrs A. It should 
pay this to Mr and Mrs A and the Official Receiver  if it hasnt already. I make  no further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A and 
the Official Receiver  to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2166734