K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains TSB Bank plc has given her a very poor service.
background 
Mrs Rs problems started in April 2019 when her monthly payment to her credit card account  
was late because TSB hadnt  sent out her monthly statement for March  2019. It then took 
two phone calls to TSB for her to get the right information about  when the payment would 
clear and when  she could use her card for an urgent large transaction. She followed the 
timescale TSB gave  her in the second  phone call but then her card was rejected causing her 
embarrassment. 
TSB said it didnt know why shed had this problem so it ordered a new card and PIN but 
when it arrived she was worried it had the same number as her old one so she made  an 
appointment at her local branch. Bur she wasnt happy with the managers suggestion that 
she should use the card and see what happened. So after some discussion the manager 
agreed to order a new card with a new account number.
After some discussion  in the first phone call Mrs R made to TSB it agreed to waive  the late 
payment and interest charges.  But Mrs R said the whole situation has caused her much  
inconvenience and expense as she had to make several visits and phone calls to sort this out. 
TSB apologised  to her for not delaying her credit card statement which meant  she missed her 
due payment in April 2019. But it said it didnt  give her any expectation that the funds on her 
account would be available immediately. It gave her £25 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused and £1 to cover the cost of phone  calls. It said its adviser couldnt understand why the 
card wasnt  being  accepted.  So a replacement card and PIN were  ordered. TSB said that 
although its not ideal sometimes there needs to be a trial and error approach to resolve a 
situation where its not clear why there is a problem with the use of a card.
Our investigator was satisfied that TSB was at fault for not sending Mrs R her March  2019 
credit card statement on time. But she thought that itd done enough to put matters  right by 
waiving the late payment  charge and the interest,  and by ensuring that Mrs Rs credit  record  
wasnt affected.
But she could see Mrs R was inconvenienced because  the first agent she spoke to didnt 
give her accurate information. Mrs R didnt  find that out until she called back  later that day. 
She waited  48 hours to use her card for her planned  transaction  but it didnt work. And TSB 
couldnt resolve the problem. So our investigator  thought TSB should pay Mrs R an 
additional £100.
TSB agreed  with this suggestion. But Mrs R wasnt happy. She said she had felt vulnerable  
over the issues with her credit card when it was overridden  and the subsequent procedures  
for reissuing her with a new one. And she had been embarrassed by the rejection of the 
card. She thought shed  been treated with disdain by TSB. She said the history of the 
complaint detailed a 10 year history of a repeated pattern  of interference. And she thought it 
wasnt reasonable for TSB to suggest  taking a trial and error approach  to resolve  the issue  
with her card. She said this would expose her to further inconvenience.  So she didnt think 
the bank manager had acted appropriately.  
Ref: DRN21537742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs R feels frustrated and upset  about the situation she found  herself  
in which  started when she didnt receive  her credit card statement in March 2019.  Mrs R 
phoned TSB in April 2019 and it apologised for the error. It waived its charges and paid her 
£26 compensation.  When  Mrs R phoned later the same day she realised TSB had given her 
incorrect or incomplete information in the first phone call. Our investigator thought that it 
should increase  its compensation  by giving Mrs R an additional £100. I think  thats 
reasonable in the circumstances.
But Mrs R is concerned about how TSB dealt with the rejection of her credit  card when she 
tried to make an urgent large  purchase. I appreciate  Mrs R was upset by this particularly in 
light of the nature of the transaction. But TSB couldnt explain why her card was rejected. I 
think it tried to do what it could to help her on the day and it immediately ordered  her a new 
card. In the circumstances I think it responded reasonably to the situation.
When the new card arrived Mrs R was worried about its security  and made  an appointment 
at her local branch.  The bank manager suggested she continue  to use her card and see 
what would  happen.  I can understand  why Mrs R was unhappy about this but it seems  to me 
the manager recognised this within a short time and agreed to her request for a new credit 
card account  number. I know Mrs R wont agree with me but as the manager acted promptly  
to her concerns I dont  think TSB needs  to do anything more.
Mrs R has indicated shes been  unhappy with TSB for several years.  If she would like to take 
this further, TSB will need to be given an opportunity to comment.  Our investigator  can help her 
with this but depending  on when  any of the specific issues arose Mrs R may be out of time. 
my final decision
My decision  is that to put matters right TSB Bank plc must pay Mrs R an additional £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2153774