K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy with a further  advance on their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1988.  They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. The mortgage was taken jointly but the policy covered Mr H only. The policy  
wouldve covered  their repayments  for up to 24 months at a time if Mr H was unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I explain why below.
I think Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware  that they had a choice about buying  the PPI, and 
they chose to take it. I say that because  Halifax has been  able to provide a copy of the 
Personal Loan Agreement from the time of sale. On this agreement  I can see that there  is a 
section entitled  Payment Protection  Insurance  and there is a Yes  and a No box. So it 
seems most likely that Mr and Mrs H should have  understood this was something  they could 
say No to. But Ive noted that the Yes box has been marked.  Whilst the cross  in the Yes 
box was pre populated, it could  have  been  there as a result of a conversation at the time. 
And both Mr and Mrs H signed this document suggesting their agreement to its contents. 
There is no language  in the documentation  that implies or states that they had to take the 
cover to get the mortgage. So having considered  everything in this case, I think  its most 
likely Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice  and they chose to take the cover. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mr H was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr H seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr H told us that he would have received excellent sick pay and that he had some  savings. 
But the PPI policy wouldve  paid out on top of any sick pay Mr H would have received, it 
would have reduced their reliance on any savings they may have had at that time and would 
have covered Mr H for up to 24 months if he was unable to work because of accident,  
sickness, or if he lost his job. So considering all the submissions made to me in this case, 
and the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I 
think Mr and Mrs H couldve  found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
Ref: DRN27941922So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs H.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs H, Halifax  also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2794192