K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the MPPI. 
The mortgage was taken out in joint names,  but the policy  only covered Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs B say that they did not know that the MPPI was optional and that they wouldnt 
have been offered the mortgage if they hadnt taken it out. I cant  know  what  was said at the 
time, and Mr and Mrs B havent  said much about this either. So I have to base  my decision 
on the information I do have.
Lloyds has been  able to provide a copy of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage application, on this, I 
can see that the MPPI is presented as an optional product  and theres nothing on it that 
suggest an applications success  would be influenced by taking or not taking MPPI.  Mr and 
Mrs B have signed the application. 
So taking everything in to account,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have 
to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the MPPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B about the MPPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs B.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B have  said, but these points dont change my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN25289992Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2528999