K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains about Interactive Investor  Services Limited. 
He says Interactive  Investor closed his Shareprice account and switched it to its own 
platform, and didnt notify him of the £22.50 fixed quarterly  fees.      
background
In June 2017, Interactive Investor  announced  the purchase of TD Direct Investing (trading as 
Shareprice). As part of its acquisition,  Interactive Investor migrated  the Shareprice account  
to its platform, with a fixed administrative cost of £22.50 a quarter.
Mr Q says he wasnt given any option,  other  than to transfer his Shareprice account to 
Interactive Investor, and didnt  give his consent to the quarterly charge. 
Interactive Investor  didnt  uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
It notified its customers in advance of the acquisition. 
It gave its customers  a number of options,  including  the option  to sell or transfer, if 
they didnt want  to transfer to the Interactive Investor platform. 
It provided Mr Q with the terms and conditions  of its business, including  information  
about the quarterly fixed fees.  
If Mr Q wanted  to sell his shares  and close the investment as he suggested  or 
transfer to another platform,  it offered to pay back the charges  for the January  and 
April 2018 quarter.  
From  May 2018 Mr Q knew  about  the fixed quarterly charges. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Although Mr Q says he didnt consent to the quarterly charge, he was sent the terms 
and conditions including an email notifying him of the fixed quarterly fees so he ought 
to have known  about the fees. 
Interactive Investor also gave  all its customers the option to close  or transfer the 
account to another provider before December 2017, so Mr Q had a choice.  
Hes satisfied that Interactive Investor  notified Mr Q of all the changes.  Although the 
email to him may have been emailed to the wrong address. 
If Mr Q still chooses to close or sell his shares, Interactive Investor said it would 
refund the charges for January and April (the first two quarters). 
As Mr Q hasnt  suffered  a financial loss, and the proposed redress is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, he doesnt think the business has to do anymore. 
Mr Q disagreed with the investigators view, and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary, he said:
Hes unhappy about the lack of communication / email being  sent,  and sent to the 
wrong email address.  
Hes also unhappy about  the problems hes experienced in trying  to access  his 
investments on the new platform.  
Ref: DRN25331812As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Im mindful of the service complaint made  against our organisation, but thats a separate  
matter and not something that I need to comment upon in reaching a decision in this case.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr Q says Im not persuaded that 
the business has behaved unreasonably.
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Qs strength  of feeling about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr Q and the business, and reach what I think 
is an independent,  fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Im satisfied that Mr Q was notified  of the take over and potential migration of his 
Shareholder account to Interactive Investor. Im satisfied that he was more likely (than not) 
sent the terms and conditions  of the change as well as information regarding  the quarterly 
fixed fees  which I think he knew, or ought reasonably to have known of by May 2018. 
 
Im unable to agree  that Mr Q wasnt given any options but to transfer his Shareholder 
account to Interactive Investor. Even  though he might not have liked the alternatives,  he still 
had a choice and didnt just have  to transfer  his account to the Interactive Investing platform. 
Other than notifying  Mr Q of the change, Interactive Investor wasnt required to obtain his 
consent before going ahead with the acquisition of his Shareholder account.  
I appreciate Mr Q had problems accessing  the new platform and is generally not happy with 
the new platform, but I understand  thats  why Interactive Investor offered to refund the fees 
for two quarters (January  and April 2018) if Mr Q wants to sell his shares or transfer to 
another provider.  
Im mindful that Interactive Investor has made clear that if Mr Q wants to sell his shares he 
has to go online or telephone.  I understand  that these options  are available  for Mr Q, and the 
Ref: DRN25331813business is unable  to change its process for him. Ive not seen any persuasive evidence  of 
Mr Q trying to trade during this period.
Im satisfied that despite the earlier issues, Mr Q knew, or ought reasonably to have known 
about the fixed quarterly fees by May 2018. And I dont  think hes entitled to the repayment 
of any fees, other than for January and April 2018,  if she decides  to sell up or transfer  to 
another provider.   
I also appreciate Mr Q is unhappy about the level of the fees but its a matter for the 
business  in the reasonable  exercise  of its legitimate commercial judgement  to set its 
fees. Its not for us to tell Interactive Investor  how to run its business. 
I appreciate Mr Q will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same  conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business  to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what  
he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2533181