K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about advice she received from BlackStar Wealth Management  Ltd. 
She was advised  to transfer benefits  she held in an occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) into 
a self invested personal pension (SIPP).  She was also advised  to invest into unregulated 
investments. She says the advice was unsuitable.
Mrs C is represented in this complaint.
background
Mrs C was in contact  with an unregulated  adviser in 2014. This adviser introduced her to 
investment opportunities with Colonial Capital and Dolphin  Capital. She was referred to 
BlackStar for advice.
Mrs C held benefits in two different OPS. Ultimately, she decided to transfer  her benefits out 
of one OPS and retain the benefits of the other.
Mrs C was in her early fifties and married  with no dependents. She was employed with a 
salary of around £35,000. Her husband  had retired and was in receipt  of a pension.  With her 
husband, she owned her own home outright. She also owned  a timeshare worth around 
£18,000 and had joint investments, with her husband, worth around £42,000.
The fact-find noted that Mrs C was extremely disappointed with the returns from the OPS 
and had decided  to take control of her pension by transferring it to a SIPP. It was said that 
she had no intention of accessing her pension  for at least  five years which would allow  her to 
invest in alternative investments. 
It was also noted  that Mrs C had previously  used  ISAs and endowments and had a semi-
high risk approach  to the transfer. She was said to be aware  of the guarantees she was 
giving up from her OPS scheme.
A risk assessment was completed. This suggested that Mrs C was prepared to take a high 
level of investment risk for a high return.
The fact-find and risk questionnaire were completed  by the unregulated introducer and 
passed on to BlackStar.
BlackStar investigated the possibility of the transfer of both OPS.  One had a transfer  value of 
around £110,000 and the transferred OPS had a value  of around £63,000. Ultimately, only 
the smaller fund was transferred.
.
A Pension  Transfer Report  was completed  in respect of both OPS. This suggested that at 
age 60, Mrs C would receive an annual pension  of £3,984 and a pension  commencement 
lump sum of £11,580  from the OPS  that was transferred. At age 65 she could expect an 
annual pension of £4,806  and a pension commencement lump sum of £11,580.
This report also explained that Mrs C would need  to obtain a critical yield of 11.1% at her 
normal retirement age of 60, in order to receive benefits of equal value to the estimated 
benefits provided by her existing scheme. But at her desired retirement date of 65, she 
would need to obtain an estimated critical yield of 7.41% in order to receive  benefits  of equal 
value.
Ref: DRN29866762BlackStar conducted a telephone review with Mrs C. It did not meet  with her face to face. A 
note of that interview recorded that Mrs C wanted  to get as much money as possible and 
that she did not perceive her current pension to be that great and therefore wished to look
to invest for a better  return.
Mrs C was recorded as a moderately experienced investor. This was defined  as someone 
who holds or has previously held investments in stock markets  property or similar, normally 
through a collective investment like an ISA, unit trust or bond, and who fully appreciates  
how these investments can fluctuate in value and that they may return  less than the amount 
invested. Mrs C was given an initial attitude  to risk score of 8 and this was later revised to 
8/9.  
BlackStar prepared a suitability report in March  2015. It said Mrs C had expressed interest in 
investing into Colonial  Capital  and Dolphin Capital. It recommended  that she transfer one of 
her pensions to a SIPP. The funds within the SIPP would then be invested with £10,000 into 
Colonial Capital, £15,000 into Dolphin  Capital  and the balance, of just over £34,000, into a 
range of collective  funds.
Just over £63,000 was transferred from the OPS into the SIPP and £10,000  was used to 
purchase the investment in Colonial Capital. The Dolphin Capital investment was not 
completed.
In August  2016  BlackStar wrote  to Mrs C and told her that it had reviewed the advice it 
provided for the transfer into Dolphin Capital. It explained that under new guidelines set by 
the regulator, the proposed investment in Dolphin Capital would now be considered  as 
unsuitable for her. So it recommended that Mrs C transfer the funds intended for this 
investment into a range of collective funds  within her existing GIA account. The investment 
into Colonial Capital was said to have already been completed and therefore unaffected by 
the changes.
In March 2017 the SIPP provider wrote to Mrs C and told her that Colonial Capital had gone 
into administration on 8 March 2017.  Mrs C complained to BlackStar in the same month. She 
said that there had been a gross mishandling of her money. 
BlackStar did not uphold the complaint. It said, in summary, that Mrs C had required  an 
annual income  of approximately £2,500. The pensions  she held would generate  around  
£19,900 per annum. She had a state pension estimated  at £5,881.  So her private pensions 
could fall by 100% and she would still be above her requirements. It also said that a 20% 
loss would be acceptable to her, however, a 50% loss wouldnt be. She had also wanted to 
continue to accrue benefits  within  her current employers pension scheme thus enhancing 
the benefits available to her at retirement. Based on her general objectives,  BlackStar  said 
her attitude  to risk, capacity for loss and her experience and knowledge, a transfer was 
suitable. It said that the risks involved had been clearly  explained.  She had confirmed that 
she understood and was fully informed of her position.
Mrs C referred  her complaint to this service.
An adjudicator investigated the complaint.  He said that it should  be upheld.  He said, in 
summary:
BlackStar had given advice and Mrs C was entitled to rely on that advice.
Ref: DRN29866763The fact-find recorded that she had some investment experience but there was no 
documentary evidence to suggest  she had held high risk investments  like the ones 
BlackStar recommended.
As funds  were not invested in Dolphin, these  were left in cash for almost  a year 
which was not productive.
The transfer was not in her best interest.  Unless higher returns were consistently 
achieved she was likely to be worse  off in retirement.
With suitable advice  Mrs C would  not have transferred.
The adjudicator recommended that BlackStar calculate redress  in accordance with the 
revised methodology issued by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017 and make a 
payment for trouble  and upset of £250.
BlackStar didnt agree.  It said, in summary:
Mrs C understood the guaranteed nature  of the defined benefit  OPS. She was 
looking to potentially  achieve a higher level of income in retirement  than the 
guaranteed benefits  would provide. This could  only be achieved by transferring,  
which also met some of her other  objectives.
The split strategy of keeping one OPS  whilst  transferring the other  preserved  the 
benefits of the larger  OPS  but achieved some  flexibility which was also an objective.
The attitude to risk was discussed.  On discussion it was increased  slightly from 8 to 
8/9.
Mrs C had said that she was comfortable with higher  risk.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator and broadly  with his reasoning. I uphold  this complaint.
Mrs C was referred to BlackStar by a third party. BlackStar accepted Mrs C as a retail client,  
and wrote to her with its recommendations.  BlackStar is responsible for the advice given. It 
recommended that she transfer from one of her existing OPS. This was the smaller of two 
OPS that she held and the larger one was left intact. Both OPS provided defined  benefits 
which were guaranteed.
So there was a split strategy which, in effect,  provided greater flexibility  whilst sacrificing 
some guaranteed benefits. 
The returns  necessary to match the benefits that had been given up were  high, over 11 per 
cent for retirement at 60 years of age and over 7 per cent at 65  the latter  was Mrs Cs 
desired retirement  age. These are the returns necessary to match the benefits and so higher 
returns would be necessary to improve on them. And, it should be noted  that BlackStar said 
in its recommendation  report, that returns of greater than 6 per cent would require significant 
risk to be taken on a consistent  basis.
Mrs C is said to have had an attitude to risk of 8 or 8/9 out of 10. BlackStar  says that this 
was discussed  with her. But I dont find it likely that this was a truly accurate assessment. 
Mrs C now says that her attitude to risk is low. When she completed  the risk questionnaire 
Ref: DRN29866764her first answer  suggested her attitude was moderate. Its not apparent  that she had 
extensive investment  experience or had taken high levels  of risk before.
Some of the funds were  to be placed in unregulated investments. Colonial Capital was a 
non-readily realisable  security (NRRS). It was a high risk unregulated investment. Colonial  
Capital was a new start-up with no track record. It invested in distressed residential property 
(which had been foreclosed) in the USA.  It was a very specialised and non-mainstream  
investment. There was no ready market for it and it was potentially illiquid. Mrs C may well 
have experienced difficulty  in redeeming  the investment which could  have impacted on her 
pension planning.  I understand that Colonial Capital Group went  into administration  in March  
2017.
There is no evidence that Mrs C had ever invested  in an investment like this before.
The recommendation report also commented on Mrs Cs capacity for loss. It said:
Looking at your personal circumstances it would seem that any loss would be likely  to have 
a negative impact on your pension prospects. As a result of which  we would  recommend  that 
you spread your exposure across several different  higher risk investments.
It could be seen as strange  that this assessment of her capacity  for loss led to a 
recommendation that Mrs C spread her investment  amongst various high risk investments 
rather than avoiding high risk investments completely.
The regulators requirement when  advising  on pension transfers  is that:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded  benefits whether to 
transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or 
opt-out will not be suitable.  A firm should  only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out  
to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence,  that the transfer, 
conversion or opt-out is in the client's  best interests. (COBS 19.1.6)
Im not satisfied that this transfer  was suitable for Mrs C or in her best interest. She did have 
objectives which could  be met by transferring, but a primary objective of increasing her 
income in retirement  was never realistically  likely  to be met without taking risks that were 
beyond her capacity  for loss.
The transfer was a high risk strategy  given the returns that needed to be achieved even to 
match the existing  benefits. The risk was then exacerbated by the investment choice which 
included a high risk, non-mainstream NRRS.
Im not satisfied that the recommendations BlackStar made  were  suitable or in Mrs Cs best 
interest. I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mrs C, as far as possible, into the position  she would now be in but 
for the unsuitable  advice.
Ref: DRN29866765BlackStar must undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  
guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider promptly  following receipt of 
notification of Mrs Cs acceptance of the decision.  
BlackStar may wish to contact the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs 
Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mrs Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Cs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25  per cent of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75 per cent would have  been  taxed according  to her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20 per cent. So making  a notional deduction of 15 per cent overall from 
the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible be paid to Mrs 
C within 90 days of the date BlackStar receives notification of her acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8 per 
cent per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes it to pay the compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
BlackStar must also pay £250 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2986676