K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) hasnt been fair when it said it wouldnt 
meet a claim he made  under his contents insurance after he was burgled.
When I refer to Aviva, that includes any contractors it might have appointed to investigate 
the claim.
background
Mr D returned from holiday in late June  2017 to find his home had been burgled. When  he 
contacted the police,  he was told that some  intruders  had been  caught in the property a 
couple of weeks  earlier, and that some  of the contents of the house had been piled up 
outside. When Mr D told the police how many items were missing, they thought the property 
might have been entered more than once.
Mr D contacted Aviva, which said it would consider  his claim. It appointed  a loss adjuster to 
look at the claim for it (a loss adjuster (LA) is responsible for checking  the details of a claim 
and the surrounding circumstances). The LA thought Mr Ds claim should  be investigated 
because his list of items  stolen came to about £70,000  but he only had insurance for about  
£23,000. The LA asked  for a copy of the police report, and eventually  concluded that Mr D 
had been storing  items used for business  purposes  at his home. His policy didnt  cover  
business items. The LA went on to say it (that is Aviva) wouldnt pay any of Mr Ds claim 
because it thought hed exaggerated his claim to include things that werent  covered. Aviva  
also decided  it wouldnt insure  Mr D in the future and has recorded information on the claim 
on an industry database that is used by many insurers to prevent fraud.
Mr D complained, but Aviva didnt  change its mind. So he brought  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  think Aviva  had been  unreasonable, so she didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint.
Mr D remains  unhappy, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr D was burgled  it seems  the potential thieves were  actually caught at the 
property in early June. And the opinion of the police seems to be that the property might 
have been entered more than once,  given that they didnt find many of the items Mr D said 
were stolen at the property when they attended   although they did find some stacked up 
outside, presumably waiting to be taken away. I dont think  the fact that police then decided  
not to prosecute the two young people involved means the burglary didnt take place.
That means I think Aviva was right to consider Mr Ds claim. And I also think  Aviva is within 
its rights  to be cautious before agreeing to meet Mr Ds claim when he told it about £70,000 
worth of items that had gone missing,  which is more than three times the amount  he insured 
the entire contents of the house for. So I dont  think Aviva did anything wrong when it 
appointed a LA to investigate the claim.
Ref: DRN29877142was Mr D storing business items?
Aviva said eventually that it wasnt going to meet Mr Ds claim because  he was claiming  for 
items it thinks  were being stored for business  use  in this case thats  items  Mr D has bought  
to sell on, either in this country or abroad. The clause Aviva  is relying on says there is no 
cover for items for business or professional  purposes.
If Aviva wants to rely on that clause, then I think its fair for it to show the items were part of a 
business activity  carried on by Mr D.
Aviva says it found an account  on a well known  online auction/sale  site. The account  is in 
Mr Ds name  and registered to his address.  Aviva  says there are hundreds of sales  and 
reviews of sales, and this suggests  Mr D was selling items on a business basis.
Mr D says he does buy and sell items on the site. And initially he said he was going to sell 
the items.  But hes recently  told us he hadnt  decided what to do with the items, as he was 
also thinking about using them in his home  country  as part of normal gift giving linked to 
certain ceremonial  events.
Mr D is adamant he isnt running a company in the name  Aviva  quoted,  and says that if we 
look at the Companies  House  website  theres  no company of that name. I can accept that, 
and I would expect  a company  which has its own legal status - to be registered  at 
Companies house. But I must also say its common for people to use the word company 
interchangeably with business. And many businesses  sole traders  for example  arent 
registered with Companies House. So the absence of an entry there doesnt persuade  me 
Mr D isnt running a business. 
It seems  to me the use of the word company has confused  matters  somewhat, but it 
doesnt prevent  me from reaching a conclusion about whether Mr D is running  a business. 
And I can say is that, having followed the link Aviva gave Mr D about  the account  on the 
auction site, it is registered at his address, in his name and marked as a business  account. 
On balance Im persuaded Aviva reached a reasonable  conclusion  when it said it thought Mr 
D was running a business.
Having got to this point,  I now have  to decide  whether  Aviva  was also reasonable in 
concluding Mr D was storing items for re-sale at home   in other words business  stock.  
Thats because  although Mr D might have an online business account  its not necessarily 
the case that all the sales  are business ones. After  all, as Mr D points  out, many  people buy 
and sell on a personal basis.  So Ive looked at the information provided to see if there was 
so much stock a reasonable person would conclude it was for business  use. 
I think Aviva  has been fair. Ive seen the police  report completed at the time. This says that 
Mr D told the police he had  amongst many other things   about 40 irons. I think thats 
substantially more than would be kept in a home  under  normal circumstances. Mr D says 
hes been mis-quoted, but on the list he gave the LA there  are more than 20 irons  the 
majority of which are the same model. And there are also a very high number of items of 
clothing and fragrance  many of which seem to be duplicates.  Overall Im persuaded there  
are many more items than would be owned in a normal household.
The police report also records that Mr D said he was intending to sell these items. Im 
inclined to accept that statement given such reports are compiled by experienced police  
Ref: DRN29877143officers and theres no reason  to think it doesnt reflect  what Mr D said at the time. I also 
think that if Mr D was buying items and storing  them to give as gifts overseas  then Id expect 
there to be only a few sales  on his online  auction  account. But thats not the case  there are 
hundreds. Im satisfied  the items at the house  were, by and large, stock for business  
purposes.
Overall I think  Aviva  was reasonable when it said these items werent covered by Mr Ds 
insurance.
was the claim inflated?
Ive also thought about the next actions Aviva took. It told Mr D it wasnt  prepared to meet  
any of his claim  even for items  that were Mr Ds personal belongings, because, by 
including the stock hed deliberately inflated the value  of his claim.  It calls this fraudulent 
misrepresentation. The clause it relies on for this is headed fraud  and says, in summary,  
that if a claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated it wont  pay a claim at all, and could 
cancel the policy.  
To persuade me it was correct to refuse  to meet any of Mr Ds claim Aviva needs  to show 
1.there was some  sort of intentional  dishonesty or deception, and
2.   the dishonesty or deception was an attempt by the policyholder to get more than theyre
entitled to.
Ive already said I thought Aviva reasonably concluded much  of Mr Ds claim was for 
business stock,  which  wasnt  covered  by his policy. And Ive said the evidence  persuades  
me Mr D is running a business  buying and selling items. I dont think Aviva  has reached an 
unreasonable conclusion when it says including the business stock indicates Mr D was trying  
to get payment for items that werent insured.
That means I cant conclude Aviva has been  unfair when it cancelled cover  and said it might 
record the details  of this claim on an industry  database.
other points
Mr D also complained about delays  and our investigator said that was largely because the 
LA was waiting for a police report. The report Ive seen was sent to the LA in late October 
2017, and had been delayed because there  were  potential  court  proceedings. I dont think 
that delay could have been  avoided. The claim wasnt finally declined until April 2018. I dont 
think waiting for the police report  explains  all the delays  in the claim. But I do think  this claim 
will have taken longer  than usual, given the complex nature and surrounding circumstances.  
I cant see any occasions where Aviva delayed the claim significantly or unnecessarily.
Mr D acknowledges he was under insured, but says thats because  hes been  insured for a 
long time with Aviva and never updated the limits  on his policy. Mr D seems to have been  
insured by Aviva for several  years at least. Ive seen the latest renewal paperwork Aviva sent 
Mr D, and it asks him to check that the cover  still suits him. I think  previous renewals will 
have said the same thing,  as this is normal practise  amongst  insurers. Having said that, Im 
not persuaded this makes much  difference to my decision, as the claim wasnt declined  
because Mr D was under-insured, but because hed claimed for business  stock that wasnt  
covered at all. 
Ref: DRN29877144my final decision
Based on my findings above, my decision  is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2987714