K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK plc wont refund an online payment that he says he 
neither made nor authorised.  
background
On the evening of 6 September  2018 a payment of £7,061.74 was made online from Mr As 
account with Barclays. 
Mr A says that he tried to make an online payment the following day, but was unable to do 
so because he didnt  have his card and couldnt find it. His wife therefore made that 
payment, and Mr A called Barclays to report his own card missing.  When he did so, Barclays  
told him about the payment the previous evening. Mr A said he knew  nothing  about it. 
Barclays investigated, but concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr A made  or 
authorised the payment. Whoever made  the payment had Mr As card and knew  his PIN and 
had been able to log onto his online banking. It also appeared that Mr A had checked his 
account using  the mobile  app at about the same  time and from the same area as the 
disputed payment. 
Mr A didnt accept the banks decision  not to refund the payment and asked that this service 
look into his case.  One of our investigators considered  it but didnt recommend that Barclays 
make a refund.  He thought it very unlikely that the payment  had been  made  by anyone other 
than Mr A or someone acting with this authority.  Mr A didnt  accept that, however, and asked 
that an ombudsman  review the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Barclays security  systems include its PINsentry system, which generates  a one-time code, 
either on a mobile  card reader used with a card and its PIN or on the customers mobile 
phone, through an app. The bank says, and I accept, that its PINsentry  reader was used 
when the money  was transferred from Mr As account. That means that whoever made the 
payment must have  had Mr As genuine  card and must have known his PIN. Thats because 
the PINsentry device operates by reading  the chip inside  the card, rather than the magnetic 
stripe  which can be copied relatively easily.  And it will only generate  a code if the correct  
PIN is used  with the card. 
Mr A says that he lost his card,  although  he didnt realise it was missing until the day after 
the disputed payment. But hes unsure where or when it went  missing. However, even if it 
was missing, theres no explanation as to how anyone who had it could know  what  the PIN 
was. Mr A hadnt used  the card for more than two weeks,  so its unlikely someone watched 
him use the PIN and then took his card but didnt use it for that long. Its also unlikely that 
someone watched Mr A use the PIN but only obtained the card more than two weeks later. 
Mr A has said, and I accept, that he didnt  keep a record  of the PIN. It cant be obtained from 
the card itself and its very unlikely that anyone would have been  able to guess it. 
Ref: DRN23097952For these reasons, I think it unlikely that someone  who took or found Mr As card would have 
been able to use it to make  the payment. I think its more likely  that Mr A made the payment 
himself or allowed someone else to make it. 
I note too that this was the only use of the card. If someone had the card and the PIN, I think 
they would  probably have  tried to make more  use of it  for example, by seeking to withdraw  
cash or make purchases. It appears  too that Mr A logged into his account  using the mobile 
app at around the same time as the payment was made; its likely he would have  seen it at 
that time.  And the banks  records indicate those log-ins were from a similar location to the 
payment itself. 
All of these matters, whilst not conclusive, indicate to me that the most likely  explanation for 
the disputed payment is that Mr A made  it himself. If he didnt, somebody must  have  done  so 
with his permission,  since they had sufficient  information to access  his account and had his 
card and knew his PIN. In the circumstances, it wouldnt  be fair to require Barclays to make 
a refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2309795