K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) hasnt been fair when 
it wouldnt meet a claim they made  under their home insurance  for items stolen from their 
car.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  returning from a holiday.  They parked their car at a service  station. When  
they returned, they discovered their luggage had been stolen from the boot of the car.
Mr and Mrs P spoke  to the police  at the time, and the theft was reported. Although it was 
reported to one police force, it was later forwarded to another force  which was responsible 
for the area where  the service station was located.
Mr and Mrs P got some  compensation from their travel insurance  but then approached 
RSA to claim for the balance of their loss.
RSA looked at the claim, but said it wouldnt meet  it. Although  it didnt dispute  the items had 
been stolen, it said items  stolen from a car werent covered unless the items were locked out 
of sight and both force and violence had been used to get into the car. It said that as the 
car was undamaged  there was no evidence  violence had been used.
Mr and Mrs P didnt  think that was fair. They say they were told on the day that several 
similar thefts had happened  at the same  service station. Theyve suggested thieves used an 
electronic device to gain entry to the car, which is why theres no damage.  They  say that 
now such devices are being used, for RSA to include violence as a reason for excluding  a 
claim means  the policy is not fit for purpose.
RSA wouldnt change  its stance so Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She didnt  think the exclusion 
itself was unfair  it was used by many insurers who dont want to meet  a claim where a 
consumer hasnt taken  enough care of their belongings. She thought the onus was on RSA 
to show the exclusion  applied, and that although  she thought it could fairly argue there  was 
no violence  used (because  there  was no damage),  it was also fair to consider the wider 
circumstances surrounding  the theft.
Our investigator contacted both police forces, and on the day in question  there  was only one 
theft reported  the one Mr and Mrs P reported.  There was no cctv to show  what  happened  
and  understandably  Mr and Mrs P couldnt  prove  they locked the car. Our investigator 
thought it was unlikely an electronic blocking device had been  used  as these are mostly 
used on cars with keyless entry (where a car unlocks because of the proximity of a key 
rather than because a button has been pressed), and Mr and Mrs P dont have keyless 
entry. And she said such devices were more often used to steal cars rather than anything 
locked in them.
Overall, our investigator concluded  that there wasnt enough  supporting evidence to show 
the theft had been carried  out with an electronic device that left no trace of entry. So she 
didnt recommend Mr and Mrs Ps claim should  be met.
Ref: DRN27338632my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as out investigator, for much the same reasons.
For Mr and Mrs P to make a successful claim they need to show  that an insured event took 
place in this case thats the theft of their belongings. For RSA to then refuse to meet the 
claim, it has to show an exclusion applies.  RSA also needs  to show that it brought that 
exclusion to Mr and Mrs Ps notice when they bought the policy. If it didnt, Id consider 
whether  if Mr and Mrs P had known about the exclusion  they might have made other  
arrangements, such as looking for insurance that didnt  have  this exclusion. Mr and Mrs P 
say they didnt know about the exclusion, so Ive thought about that carefully.
This particular exclusion  is very common amongst insurers.  And as our investigator said, its 
meant, by and large, to protect  the insurer from claims where a customer hasnt  taken 
enough care of their belongings. From looking at the policy  documents,  I can see the 
exclusion listed in the out and about section of Mr and Mrs Ps cover.  I think  its reasonably  
prominent. But even  if it wasnt, as this exclusion is so common,  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P 
could have bought cover without this exclusion for a similar price.  So even if there were 
failings at the time the policy was sold  and Im not saying there are  I dont think it would 
have affected  Mr and Mrs Ps decision to buy the policy.
Mr and Mrs P agree  there  are no obvious signs of violence to the car. They say that 
supports their thinking that some  sort of electronic device was used. Although  I dont doubt 
Mr and Mrs Ps recollections of being told about other thefts  on the same day, that isnt 
supported by the information weve since received from the relevant police forces. If there 
had been a number of similar thefts  reported  I might have been persuaded thats the most  
likely explanation of what happened.  But without  such evidence Im unable to say RSA has 
been unfair in applying  this exclusion to the claim.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2733863