K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance policy alongside a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage in 1984. In 1990  they took out a PPI policy  in Mr Bs 
name only.
Given how long ago the sale took place  Santander  cant tell us what the monthly benefit was 
but it says it would have cost £6.95  per month and on a successful claim it would have paid 
out for up to 36 months for accident  and sickness and for up to 12 months if Mr B lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. She said that as Mr B was a 
contractor  the circumstances in which he could  have made a claim were quite limited.  
Santander disagreed with this view and said that it wanted further  information  about Mr Bs 
employer at the time. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case. 
Having done that, I have  decided to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
This sale took place  almost 29 years ago so its completely understandable if not all the 
information is available from the time. But where there is limited information I will make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities, that is whats more  likely, taking into account 
what both parties have told me together with the paperwork thats available.
Santander has told us this was an advised  sale and as such  it put more responsibility on 
Santander for how it sold the policy. It meant  that it had to check that the policy  was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances as well as giving  them clear enough information so they 
could decide for themselves whether or not he wanted to take it out.
Looking at all the circumstances  as well as the terms and conditions of the policy, I dont 
think the policy was suitable. 
I say this because  Mr B (the person who was covered by the policy) has told us he was a 
contractor at the time he took out the policy. Following this information we went back to ask 
him about his job. He told us in his reply  that he worked as a contractor on a temporary 
contract working different hours each week. He also told us he worked for a number of 
different companies  as he was freelance and the companies employed him for certain jobs.  
Hes also clarified that he wasnt self- employed.
Mr B has been consistent in what hes said and whilst I note that Santander has asked for 
evidence about  his role, in the same way as Santander is unable  to provide the sales 
Ref: DRN26066392paperwork as it was so many years ago, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to expect 
Mr B to be able to provide me with documentary evidence about  his work. I have taken into 
account his job and what hes told us and I think its more likely he worked for various 
different companies  as a contractor on a contract  by contract basis.  
The policy terms contained various  exclusions which would likely have made it more difficult  
to make a claim as a contractor. There are various exclusions set out in the policy document. 
The terms state that the policy would  not insure  Mr B against  unemployment  which occurred 
within 8 weeks of the commencement  of cover or which resulted from the termination of a 
fixed term contract of less than 12 months duration. Taking into account Mr Bs job I think  it 
would have been very difficult for him to make a claim for unemployment. And I dont think 
the policy was suitable for him. I think this likely  would have mattered to him. If hed realised 
that the circumstances  in which he could  make a claim  for his unemployment were limited I 
dont think he likely  would have taken out the policy. 
Overall, I think Mr B lost out as a result of what Santander did wrong and I uphold this 
complaint.
putting things right.
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr or Mrs B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay 
compensation to Mr and Mrs B as Ive set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2606639