K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold  her a monthly  premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 1996  when she applied for a credit card in a 
store.
background
Mrs A complained to this Service.  She had bought  PPI with a store card.  Allianz has 
accepted responsibility for the sale. Our adjudicator thought the claim shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mrs A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.  
She added  through her representative  that the information was not clear;  she did not 
need PPI; she was supported by her husband  and had savings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in  
deciding Mrs As case.
 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I know  this will disappoint Mrs A so Ill explain why.
Allianz says Mrs A applied for the credit card and PPI by completing  a leaflet in a store.  I can 
see from the copy of the original application  form that Mrs A ticked  a box to say she wanted 
PPI. If she didnt want it then she couldve left the box clear.  So I think its likely Mrs A knew 
she had a choice  about taking out PPI and ticked the box because she wanted  it. So as she 
had a clear choice on the form,  I think the PPI was shown  to be an optional product.
The sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, Allianz didnt recommend the policy to 
Mrs A, it just gave her information about PPI. But the information needed to be clear,  fair and 
not misleading so that she could make an informed  choice about buying  PPI. 
Its likely  Mrs A wouldve received some documents that wouldve given her the key features 
of the PPI policy - like the benefits and the cost. But its possible  Allianz didnt do things 
properly when making sure the information provided on the policy was good  enough. That 
being said even  if Allianz did give all the information  Mrs A needed to make an informed 
choice, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because  at the time of the sale:
She was eligible for the PPI.
I dont think shed  have been caught by any of the main things not covered by the policy 
(the exclusions).  So I dont think that more  detailed information about  the exclusions 
wouldve put her off from buying PPI.
Mrs A said she would get sick pay from her employer  but I think  the PPI couldve lasted 
for longer  than her employee benefits.  
Mrs A said she couldve  relied on her husband  to make her repayments. I do understand 
the point shes  making.  But I dont know if she couldve  still relied on this help at some  
unknown point  in the future. So I think the PPI wouldve still been of some use to her.
I dont know how Allianz explained the PPI cost and benefits to Mrs A. But theres 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for her in 1996.  So I dont think that more  
detailed information  wouldve put her off from buying PPI.
Ref: DRN25500792I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs A on the 
PPI. I think  she chose  to have it because she wanted it. And I think  shed still have taken out 
the PPI policy  as it was probably of benefit to her.
Taking everything into account,  I think the policy was shown as optional.  And I think the 
information was probably clear  enough for her to make an informed decision. So Im not 
going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I make no award against Allianz 
Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2550079