K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly  rejected his home contents insurance 
claim, following a theft.
background
Mr S contacted AXA to say hed had a number of possessions  stolen  from his flat, this 
happened in November 2018.
AXA initially  said the claim  wouldnt be covered because of the lack of evidence  of a break 
in. Mr S then obtained the police report, but AXA said that confirmed there  was no damage 
to the communal door, Mr Ss flat door or to the windows. Adding that, where  a theft has 
occurred and there is no evidence of forcible  and/or violent entry or exit to your home there 
is no cover .
Mr S complained about the decision and AXA said the policy requires there  to be signs  of 
damage caused by gaining  entry to the home. They acknowledged  that Mr S had sent in 
photos, showing scuff  marks  and chips around  the door and door frame,  but didnt consider 
those to show any damage that could have resulted from entry to the home.
AXA referred Mr S to the policy  terms and conditions which say cover isnt provided for theft 
claims, Unless there are signs of damage  caused by the thief (or thieves)  to get into the
Home or violence or deception was used to gain entry.
Mr S remained unhappy,  he told us entry was gained with a plastic card being used to 
bypass the lock. He feels  he took reasonable care as he believes all doors  and windows 
were locked prior to the incident. Mr S doesnt believe all thefts will show signs of damage 
and says its unfair to reject his claim just because the thieves  got in without  leaving a trace.  
Mr S also says there are some signs, being scuff  marks to the paint and chipped wood on 
the door frame,  which he says the police and locksmith pointed out to him when explaining  
how thieves had gained  entry.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ss complaint, and they felt AXA hadnt done enough to 
show the policy term could be relied upon to reject the claim. And they referred to what  they 
felt was relevant  case law.
The investigator said a plastic card being used  to open the locks was plausible, and that 
such entry  would leave  no trace. The investigator  felt this was enough to say that force and 
violence was used  to enter the property  in effect,  the lock had been  picked. Because  of 
this, they felt the onus was on AXA to show such a method  was implausible.
AXA disagreed, they said there was nothing in the police report to confirm the method of 
entry, and that it was possible the doors had been left unlocked. AXA said theyd attempted  
to contact the locksmith  to see if they could corroborate Mr Ss version of events  but theyd 
been unable  to reach him.
AXA believes the method of entry is simply speculation and maintains that its reasonable to 
rely on the policy term.
Ref: DRN27143692The matter  remained unresolved so was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
I first explained that I didnt believe it was in question that Mr S had been a victim of theft,  
and that I could appreciate it had been a difficult time for him. But I explained that I still had 
to consider whether or not AXAs rejection of his claim was fair.
AXA said they didnt  believe there  were signs of damage caused by entry  to the home, as 
the policy requires.  They took into account Mr Ss photographs which showed some  damage  
 but AXA believed that may simply be wear and tear and unrelated to the theft.
I said for the claim to be covered on the basis of that damage it would have to be in some  
way linked to the method of entry. And I just didnt think there was enough to show it 
couldve been caused by thieves getting in to Mr Ss home,  because  it was very minor and 
some of it wasnt  especially close to the lock. Because of that I thought  AXAs belief that it 
may be wear  and tear was reasonable.
I then looked at the other parts of the policy term, which referred  to violence or deception 
being used to gain entry. I didnt believe there was any suggestion it could have been 
deception. Id consider  an example  of that to be someone getting in by posing as a 
tradesperson or utility  provider. And I understood from AXAs  notes that Mr S asked the 
residents of the adjoining flats if they let anyone in, but they told him they hadnt.
So that left violence  as a method of entry. I said its correct our service sometimes feels  a 
lock being opened with an implement,  other  than the key, constitutes violence. But in these 
policy terms I felt violence  was meant in the context of something  like a resident being 
barged past or assaulted in the doorway,  as the thief gained entry. Nevertheless, AXA said if 
there was something  to corroborate Mr Ss explanation of how the thief, or thieves, had got 
in they may be able to consider his claim further.
And thats where  the difficulty lay. Whilst Mr S had said the thieves gained entry by using a 
plastic card or implement there was nothing else to support  that. The only reference in the 
police report to say how they got in, or even to say how it mightve been possible without 
leaving signs, seemed  to be Mr Ss suggestion that the suspect  may have popped  the latch  
open  because hed not locked the dead  bolt. The report  said there were no tool marks on 
any of the doors or windows. And AXA said theyd had tried to contact the locksmith  for his 
recollection, but it hadnt been able to reach  him.
That meant it was unknown how entry was gained and there  remained  other  possibilities, 
which wouldnt be covered, such as the property  not being  properly secured or a lost key 
being used. Overall, as the criteria for a claim being  accepted hadnt been  met, I didnt think  
AXAs rejection  of it had been unreasonable.
AXA replied  to my provisional decision, asking when they might expect a final decision. They 
didnt make any other comments.
Mr S also replied. He said it was a shame Id come to the decision I had and felt it was 
another example of the regular consumer losing out.
Ref: DRN27143693my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because nobody  has raised any new points or arguments Ive essentially reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision, as explained above. I do appreciate why Mr S 
finds this disappointing  but the ombudsman service is impartial and that means  the outcome 
wont always be what the consumer, or sometimes business, wouldve liked.
I considered the matter  very carefully  before reaching the conclusion I did, and I just didnt 
feel there was enough  for me to say AXA had treated Mr S unfairly.  It had considered his 
claim and asked for evidence to see if the method of entry could be determined.  
Unfortunately, there was nothing to support Mr Ss suggestion and as the terms for his claim 
to be accepted hadnt been met  I didnt think it was fair to require AXA to pay it.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2714369