K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains as executor of the Estate of Mrs C, against Blacktower Financial 
Management Ltd (Blacktower),  about the administration of the late Mrs Cs investments 
and in particular  as to two withdrawal  requests in November 2015  and May 2017.
.
background
In August  2015  the late Mrs C appointed Blacktower as her independent, financial adviser. In 
November 2015,  the late Mrs C made a written request to withdraw £10, 000 from her 
investments. 
In early April 2017, the late Mrs C met with Blacktower and a third party at a restaurant.  It is 
agreed that the late Mrs Cs health had declined. Following the meeting a request  for a 
£15, 000 withdrawal  was drafted on her behalf. The late Mrs C subsequently signed the 
request. Cheques were  issued in her name in May and were intercepted by her family.
Unfortunately the late Mrs Cs health  deteriorated  and she passed away in June 2017. 
Mr C, acting for the estate, believes his mother had limited capacity or no capacity to make  
decisions about her financial  affairs and was being influenced by a third party.  He raises 
concern as to whether Blacktower undertook proper checks to identify the late Mrs C as a 
vulnerable person and questions the appointment of the firm and their administration of the 
withdrawal requests.
Blacktower maintain that proper checks were undertaken when they were appointed  in 
August 2015.  They  say they were introduced to the late Mrs C by a third party. Blacktower 
maintain that withdrawal  instructions were  only taken  from the late Mrs C and she had 
capacity to give instructions at the time.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. He thought there  
was nothing to show that anything untoward was happening. The signature for the 
November 2015  withdrawal matched the verification documents  held by Blacktower and 
whilst the signature on the April 2017 request was shaky that was explained by the late 
Mrs Cs decline  in physical health. No evidence had been provided to show  that the late Mrs 
C was unable to make decision about her financial affairs.
Mr C disagrees  with the findings and has asked for an independent review into the events 
surrounding his mother and her finances. Mr C asks for an internal review of Blacktower, by 
someone other than the managing director and highlights that there  was a connection 
between the business and the third party.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that this has been a difficult time for Mr C and the late Mrs Cs family.  I dont 
doubt their strength of feeling  about  whats happened.  
Ref: DRN23926252I think its useful to explain our role at the outset. We provide  an informal  dispute resolution 
service. We have no disciplinary or regulatory role and we dont have  the same  powers as 
the Courts to compel a business or consumer to provide documents or to cross-examine the 
respective parties  or potential witnesses. Where  things have gone  wrong,  we consider how 
to put things right on a fair and reasonable basis.
I understand that our remit has been explained  to Mr C during a lengthy telephone call with a 
Senior Investigator.  Mr C has expressly confirmed that he does not wish to provide  any 
additional information.
With that in mind, I have  gone onto consider the complaint  on the basis of the information 
provided to our service.  Ive made  my decision based upon  the balance  of probabilities, 
considering what  is more likely than not to have happened.
Instructions 
Ive considered the documents from August 2015,  the time of appointment of Blacktower as 
the late Mrs Cs IFA. A fact find and attitude to risk assessment were  completed at the time. 
A copy of the late Mrs Cs passport was taken and proof of address was also obtained. And 
Ive seen that Mrs C signed the terms of business and related paperwork. Theres  nothing to 
show that she did not consent  to this appointment. 
Likewise I have seen  a letter signed by the late Mrs C authorising a withdrawal of £10, 000 in 
November 2015.  Its not suggested  this isnt her signature and again theres nothing to show 
that she did not consent to the withdrawal.
I have also seen a typed letter purportedly signed by the late Mrs C authorising a withdrawal 
of £15, 000 in April 2017. I agree that the signature  is different to that on the other 
documents. Blacktower  say the late Mrs Cs physical health  had declined by this time. And 
as the signature  appeared different, Blacktower spoke to the late Mrs C and she confirmed 
the instruction  orally.  Mr C doesnt dispute  that the signature is that of the late Mrs C but he 
says she would not have had capacity  to make decisions about her financial affairs  at the 
time.
I have seen an email from Blacktower to a third party confirming the value of the late Mrs Cs 
investment. Blacktower agree they did not have authority from the late Mrs C to take 
instructions from a third party. Whilst it is questionable why that information was shared, 
there is nothing within  the documents provided to show that Blacktower took instructions 
from that third party to make withdrawals  and Ive seen that the cheques issued from the 
investments were payable  to the late Mrs C and not to anyone else.
Capacity
I fully appreciate the concerns raised  by Mr C about  his mother and the difficult  
circumstances surrounding  this matter. Mr C points to his mothers history  of illness  and the 
deterioration in her health. Mr C has chosen not to provide any medical evidence about his 
mothers ill health. 
Mr C has described his mother  as being unwell with varying capacity from August 2015 up to 
the time of her passing.  He says that she was assessed  as lacking capacity on 3 May 2017, 
but again I have not seen any documentary evidence to support this.
Ref: DRN23926253Ive taken on board Mr Cs concerns and Ive balanced that against  the fact that these events 
took place over two years  ago, very little documentary  evidence has been  provided by the 
parties and Mrs C is now deceased, so its difficult for me to say what happened at the time.  
Im also mindful that capacity can fluctuate  and the parties recollections of the late Mrs Cs 
capacity are at odds with each other.  
It is of concern that there  are no contemporaneous  notes of any of the meetings Blacktower 
claim to have had with the late Mrs C. I would  have expected these to have been recorded. 
But I havent seen  any supporting evidence  to show that the late Mrs C did not have capacity 
when she gave a withdrawal instruction in November 2015. And it doesnt appear to be 
disputed that the funds  were sent to her at that time.
Mr C points to the change and deterioration  in the late Mrs Cs signature by 2017, as 
evidence of her decline  and maintains that she was hospitalised  on the date a letter for a 
£15, 000 withdrawal  was purportedly signed  by her. 
In April 2017, Blacktower  say that a meeting took place with the late Mrs C in person  and 
whilst her physical health had declined, she did have capacity to give instructions. They  say 
the written instructions signed in April 2017 were consistent with the instructions given by 
Mrs C at the meeting.  Further,  Blacktower  maintain  they spoke to the late Mrs C to confirm 
her request  and only took instructions from her. But Blacktower  have no record of the call 
and there  is no contemporaneous note of it. Likewise, Blacktower have no record of or notes 
of the meeting they refer to, which I would have expected to have seen.
Whilst it is evident that the late Mrs C was unwell in April 2017, on the basis  of the limited 
evidence provided  to our service, I cant now fairly  assess  whether she had capacity at the 
time the last withdrawal  request  was made.  So Im not able to conclude that Blacktower 
should have done more.
Even if I had found that Mrs C didnt have capacity to authorise the last transaction and 
Blackwater did not undertake proper checks to satisfy themselves as to her capacity, Mr C 
has confirmed there  was no financial loss as the cheques were intercepted and stopped.  As 
Mrs C has sadly  passed away, Im not able to award compensation for trouble and upset to 
the estate. So even if things had gone wrong, I would not have asked Blacktower to 
compensate the estate.
As Ive explained our service has no power to appoint  and direct  investigation into the 
conduct of individuals at a business. Neither do we have  the power to compel third parties to 
provide evidence. Ive seen  that Blacktower have offered  to engage  the services  of an 
external compliance  consultancy firm to undertake  an internal review and they are willing to 
provide a copy of the report to Mr C. Its a matter for Mr C to decide  whether or not to accept 
that offer.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C, but on the basis of the evidence  provided, I am not upholding 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN23926254my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C acting on 
behalf of the Estate, to accept or reject my decision before 16 September  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2392625