K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained that Erudio Student Loans Limited failed to send her a deferment 
application for her student loans. As a result, Miss T didnt defer her loans and Erudio has 
requested repayment.  
background
Miss T has two student loans. In view of her income  levels, she had been  deferring 
repayment each  year for many years. She did this by completing  an application for 
deferment each  year, when SLC sent her an application pack. 
In November 2017, Erudio says the deferment pack was sent to Miss T as usual. Miss T 
didnt complete the application (because  she says she didnt receive it). So the loans werent  
deferred. This meant that from January 2018, repayments became  due and arrears  began to 
build up. 
On 1 October 2018, Erudio issued a termination notice to Miss T. This meant that it was no 
longer possible  to defer. Erudio then passed the account to its debt recovery  agents. 
In December 2018, Miss T complained  to Erudio. Erudio didnt uphold it, as they said the 
deferment application was sent, so theyd done  nothing wrong. 
Miss T referred  her complaint  to this service and one of our investigators looked  into things. 
She didnt  think Erudio had done anything wrong  either. So Miss T asked for an ombudsman 
to look at things  again. 
Miss T felt that, as a matter of principle, it wasnt fair that shed lost her right to defer  forever. 
She reiterated that she hadnt received the pack, even if Erudios systems said it had been  
sent. She thought Erudio should have contacted her when they didnt receive  her deferment 
application. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for essentially  the same reasons. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Miss T. So Id like to explain why. 
As our investigator explained, where theres a dispute over something sent in the post, I 
must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities.  In other  words,  I decide what is more 
likely than not to have happened. In this case, Ive seen evidence  from system records that 
the deferment pack was sent on 29 November 2017. I can see that Miss Ts address is 
written correctly on all the student  loan correspondence  and she hasnt moved house. So Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not that it was sent correctly. 
Of course,  this doesnt mean that Miss T received it  post does  go astray  sometimes.  But it 
does mean  that it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Erudio  responsible  for its non-receipt  and 
what followed.
I know Miss T would have liked Erudio to contact her when they didnt  receive her 
application. But this isnt something  theyve  agreed  to do. So I dont think  it would be fair to 
Ref: DRN22703052say they should have  done so in Miss Ts case.  The loan agreement made it clear  that it was 
up to Miss T to apply  each year to defer, if she wished to continue to do so. Erudios website 
also contained information on deferment  and enabled customers  to apply online. So it wasnt  
necessary to receive the pack to apply.  
Miss T has told us that she received  a large  envelope of letters  regarding  her student loans 
in one batch in 2018. This didnt include the deferment application. But her argument is that 
this indicates that Erudio  had a problem with their administration, which  calls into question 
whether they actually  sent the deferment  documents. Ive thought carefully about Miss Ts 
point here.  
I can see that the batch  of documents in question were all statutory notices of arrears. 
Erudio has told us that they noticed in 2018  that theyd failed to comply with the Consumer 
Credit Act in terms of these notices. So they sent out what they called a Remedy pack to 
affected customers to rectify  this by providing  all the required notices. Im satisfied that this 
was a separate, one-off  exercise and doesnt indicate an issue  with the deferment packs, 
which Miss T had successfully received in each previous  year. 
Miss T feels its unfair  that because she didnt get one deferment pack, she has lost her right 
to defer  forever. But Miss T knew she needed to defer annually. And she didnt get in touch 
with Erudio until the following November, around  two years from her last deferment. By this 
point, Erudio had sent several statutory notices, including  a default notice and the big bundle 
of remedy documents. The default notice  included a warning that if Miss T didnt pay the 
arrears, then her account would be terminated and she would  lose the right to defer. A 
termination letter followed  in October, informing her that shed lost this right.  So it seems to 
me that Miss T had had many prompts to remind her of the loan before her right to defer was 
permanently lost. 
To uphold  Miss Ts complaint, Id need to find that Erudio had done  something wrong. But I 
cant see that this is the case. Ive concluded its more likely than not that the deferment  pack 
was sent. And from then on, Erudio have  just followed their standard  processes, sending  the 
appropriate statutory  notices and asking Miss T to get in touch to discuss  an affordable  
repayment programme.  So I dont think theyve acted unfairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270305