K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  PLC trading as Barclaycard told him that a default 
wouldnt be registered on his credit file. But it did register a default  which  affected his credit 
rating and re-mortgage  application.
background
Mr R fell behind on his Barclaycard repayments  in 2017. He says he was told to pay about  
£1,600 to avoid a default, which he did in about  October 2017.  Mr R says in August 2018 he 
checked his credit file, as he was wanted to re-mortgage his home, and found  out that a 
default had been registered  by Barclaycard. He says that action  has ruined his chances  of 
being able to re-mortgage and has wrecked his credit score.  He says Barclaycards actions 
have caused him significant stress.
Barclaycard initially  accepted making a mistake  and said it would remove the default and 
offered Mr R £250 compensation. It looked at the complaint  again  and thought  the default 
had been correctly recorded but accepted giving Mr R misleading information. Barclaycard 
has agreed to delete all information from Mr Rs credit file. But it says that by registering the 
default Mr Rs account avoided interest  and charges which amount to over £200. It says it 
will continue to offer the compensation. It also says Mr R hasnt made a repayment  since 
October 2017.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator  thought  overall Barclaycard had dealt 
with it fairly. She accepted Mr R had been  given conflicting information but thought  
Barclaycard had gone further than she would expect  by deleting all information from his 
credit file including numerous late payment markers. She also thought the offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. But didnt think  Mr R had provided any evidence of a 
rejected mortgage  application or had provided  his credit file to assess  if other information 
recorded on it wouldve  affected that application.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and says Barclaycard has been allowed to wreck his credit 
score and destroyed his chances  of getting a mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  that Mr R will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the level of stress that hes been under. But 
overall Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly in dealing with this complaint.
There is no doubt Mr R was given  misleading  information by Barclaycard in September and 
October 2017. Im satisfied he was given conflicting  information about what he needed to do 
to avoid a default being registered on his credit  file. And I have no doubt that is what  Mr R 
wanted to avoid. So I accept that Mr R wouldve been caused stress and inconvenience 
when he found  out that a default had been registered.
But I think Barclaycard  has acted fairly by apologising for its mistake  and by offering what  I 
think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £250. I also think its acted fairly by 
removing all details of its account from Mr Rs credit file and I agree with the investigator that 
this is a relatively unusual decision in this type of case. Im satisfied that by doing  so , all late 
Ref: DRN21224832payment markers  will be removed which would have had a significant affect on Mr Rs credit  
score as well as the default.
I also think by registering the default,  Mr R benefited as no charges or interest were added to 
his debt. I think it likely that those charges and interest would have been more  than £200  
over the time period  the default  was registered.
I appreciate Mr R says his credit score  was affected by what happened.  I can also see that 
Mr R has been asked  on a number of occasions  to provide us with his credit  file and any 
mortgage applications but he hasnt  provided  either. So I cant  fairly conclude  what impact  
Barclaycards actions had on his credit  file or on any application for a mortgage. But going 
forward, as all of the adverse  information  has been  removed, then there shouldnt be any 
impact caused by the Barclaycard debt.  As Mr R is aware no payments have been made 
towards the debt in some time and no doubt he will consider contacted Barclaycard about a 
repayment plan.
Overall Im satisfied Barclaycard has dealt with this complaint  fairly  and I can see the offer of 
compensation remains open. In the circumstances I will leave  it to Mr R to decide if he 
wishes to accept that offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  PLC trading as Barclaycard has made  a fair and 
reasonable offer of £250 compensation. Mr Rs acceptance of that offer would be in full and 
final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2122483