K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled her home  
insurance claim for fire damage to her property.
background
Ms G reported her claim  in November 2016. Her property is a listed  building. The back of her 
house had been severely damaged  by a fire in her neighbours garden  room. UKI sent out 
loss adjusters to review  the damage and they in turn appointed a drying/cleaning company 
to clean up the damage. It was identified  that severe damage had occurred to the roof, loft 
and back wall of the property. At the same time UKI appointed solicitors  to assess  whether 
recovery would be possible from the neighbours.
Ms G then spent several months in communication with UKI and the loss adjusters to chase 
up what was happening  with the repairs. From  the file notes it appears that the drying 
company had to ozone the loft areas  to get rid of the fire smell. From the file notes it appears 
that the cleaning finished around the end of January 2017.  However  the repairs didnt start 
until May 2017 when  scaffolding  was put up. Repairs to the roof began  in June 2017. Further  
repairs were identified and authorised.  The roof repairs were  noted as concluded around the 
end of August  2017.
Shortly after that Ms G reported that she was concerned about further damp in the property. 
Ms G appointed her own surveyor  who thought the damp was related to water used by the 
fire brigade  putting  out the fire, the loss of guttering  to the rear and the fact that an extractor 
fan vent that had been destroyed was letting water in. This was the initial view of the drying 
company which  was reappointed and carried out some further  drying. This involved strip out 
and swab tests in November 2017  to find out the nature of the water (whether it was rain 
water or mains  water)  and the source  of the damp.  Ms Gs surveyor  liaised with UKI and the 
contractors to try and set up a joint meeting.  He also identified that the contractors  had 
installed the wrong kind of slates on the roof which UKI admitted being  the case, however 
the replacement  of the slates would  need to be worked in with any further repairs.  
Unfortunately Ms Gs surveyor died before he could complete  a report.
UKI advised in January 2018 that further  tests needed to be done which  involved further strip 
out of the floor. At Ms Gs request this further  strip out was delayed until March 2018. 
Following the further tests  UKI identified that the damp  wasnt related to the water damage  at 
the time of the fire or the guttering. It completed a full survey of this in July 2018  which  said 
that the damp was related  to the damp  proof course installed when the property  was 
converted in 21007. It said the workmanship  was faulty and not in accordance  with planning 
and building regulations standards.
For the initial delays  in carrying out the repairs UKI paid Ms G £500.On 3 September  2018  it 
issued its final response and paid Ms G a further  £350. It agreed it was responsible for 
excessive delays. However despite Ms Gs concerns about further delays after that UKI 
wont give authority to us to consider  any further  complaints after the date of the final 
response. It has opened a further complaint about those issues.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the compensation paid up until the final 
response letter was sufficient. Ms G didnt  agree,  pointing out that she had been made to live 
in a property with severe damp issues which it didnt have before, and that she had had to 
do a great  deal of chasing up.
Ref: DRN28641112The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI hasnt  given permission for us to consider complaints after the date of the final 
response. And under the rules which govern us UKI has to be given the opportunity to 
answer any further complaints. As the matter is still ongoing, I think  thats  reasonable, 
otherwise we would have  to keep going backwards and forwards  to answer  further matters 
as they arise.
delays/lack of communication
I think there were excessive delays, firstly  in getting the original repairs  under way and then 
in trying to resolve  the damp issues. Whist UKI said that repairs were initially  agreed to be 
delayed until after the winter months, that doesnt appear from the file notes  and from the 
emails Ms G sent through.  I can understand that there was a considerable amount of 
cleaning up to do at first, but it appears that by January 2017 that was all finished and the 
contractors needed  to be booked in for repairs. I understand that as a listed  building  works  
needed consent but I havent seen any indication of what was applied  for and when.  I would 
assume the roofing work needed consent. And UKI has advised us that Historic England 
needed to be consulted.  But that didnt happen until after the initial roofing work had been 
completed.
Ms G was clearly chasing up the appointment of a contractors  and in turn UKI was chasing 
up the contractors.  I think there  was an initial delay of about four months in getting the 
contractors out to start the work.
Subsequently Ms G noticed further damp  problems but it appears  that this was dealt with in 
a piecemeal fashion.  Firstly further strip outs had to take place, then further drying.  When 
that didnt appear  to work, a need for more testing and yet more strip outs had to take place, 
UKIs surveyor didnt report on the likely cause of the damp  until almost eleven months after 
the repairs to the roof had been completed  and Ms G noticed the further damp.
Ive noted that solicitors  were instructed in late November 2016 to investigate the possibility 
of recovery from the neighbour and it was eventually decided  that this wouldnt be possible.  
However I cant see that those investigations should  have held up the repairs and UKI hasnt 
said that they did.
Ms G also encountered  considerable  problems in getting responses to her enquiries, as did 
her surveyor. The lack of a project manager  was identified by her surveyor  and I would think 
this added to the problems  with the repairs.
poor repairs
Ms Gs surveyor noted that the wrong type of slate had been  used  on the roof and that the 
work had been  carried  out poorly.  UKI denied that the work  was sub-standard but it does 
agree that the wrong type of slate was used. As presumably planning consent was needed 
for this, it seems  to be another example  of the lack of project management.
Ref: DRN28641113That said Ive not seen any indication that the repairs werent water tight. To that end I dont  
think UKI can be criticised for putting  off the further  repairs until the extent of work  needed  to 
the property was identified and agreed.
compensation
I have to decide whether the amount of compensation paid  a total of £850  - was sufficient. 
I can understand from Ms Gs point  of view that she feels she was made to live in a damp 
property and that UKI was responsible for the damp  issues at the property. Up until the final 
response letter the only definitive  answer to that, and I realise this could change through  
further investigations, was UKIs surveyors report.  I appreciate Ms Gs surveyor identified  
other issues like the water  used to put the fire out, the lack of guttering  and the missing 
extractor fan outlet.  But regrettably he wasnt able to carry out a full report  and he didnt have 
the benefit of the extensive  testing  UKI had done  after that. It also appears  that the drying 
company carried out initial  testing which showed  that the property was dry. And though Ms G 
was concerned about the rain in the winter months  the first indication that the property 
wasnt dry came only in April 2017  when  she said water was leaking around the Velux 
window frame, just before repairs were started. Then when the roof repairs were complete, 
she identified further damp issues.
I fully understand  that Ms G didnt have those damp issues before, but sometimes it takes a 
major claim like this to show up existing issues with the damp  proofing.  And I can see her 
point when she says UKI could have carried out temporary repairs to the gutter, though on 
present evidence that doesnt seem to be the cause of the damp. Had that been  the case  I 
would have expected the drying out to work.
So up until the September 2018 final response and based on the expert evidence up until 
that date I think that UKI was responsible for excessive delays and poor communication  but 
not for the fact that the proper suffered from further damp issues.  I agree that the wrong type 
of slate was used  and this should  have been better managed. But taking those  points into 
consideration I think that the £850 paid was fair compensation.  This takes into account 
awards we have made in similar cases.  So I wont require  UKI to take any further steps. It is 
of course still managing  the claim and the further repairs.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2864111