K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr M says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
background
An adjudicator thought  Mr Ms complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr M took out a credit card with Lloyds  in 1996. It isnt certain that Mr M was sold PPI at the 
same time although we do know that PPI was attached to Mr Ms account by 2000. I think its 
most likely the PPI was sold to him at the same time he took out the card in 1996. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us copies of the original paperwork completed at the time.  
This isnt unusual and its understandable  in view of the time that has gone by since  the sale 
took place. But where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have  happened,  taking  into account  the evidence available,  what   both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr M has said the PPI was attached to the credit card without his knowledge.  On the other 
hand Lloyds has said the PPI was optional and Mr M wouldve chosen  to apply it to his credit 
card.
Ive thought about this point. Due to the time thats gone by Lloyds hasnt  been  able to give 
us a copy of Mr Ms application form for the credit  card. But Ive seen  other Lloyds 
applications for this type of card, from around that date. And its likely Mr M wouldve been 
given the option on the form to tick a box to purchase the PPI.
I also note that the PPI remained  on Mr Ms account  for some years. And the premiums 
wouldve appeared on his monthly  statements as purchases. If Mr M hadnt asked for the 
PPI or didnt  want it, Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But I havent  
seen any evidence that he did.
Taking everything into account  I think Lloyds most  likely  made it clear that Mr M didnt have  
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this after so many years.
Mr M recalls applying  for the card in a branch.  Lloyds says this meant its representative  
shouldve recommended he take the PPI. That means Lloyds had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr M. And based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. 
Ref: DRN27881212Ive looked at the terms and conditions of policies Lloyds sold around that time. I can see for 
example that that Mr M wouldnt have been affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover.
And Mr M was self-employed and hed not have received  any sick pay if he became too 
unwell to work. So he seems to have had a need  for the cover.   
The policy covered the self-employed. And Ive not seen anything in the policy  terms and 
conditions which wouldve made it difficult for Mr M to claim as a self-employed  person. 
After so many years  it isnt possible  for me to know what information was given to Mr M. And 
therefore its possible the information  Lloyds  gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
In summary  I think its most likely  Lloyds made Mr M aware of the policy and that it was 
optional. And I think he chose to take it out. The policy seems to have  been  right for him, and 
it looks like he had a need for it. It could  be that Lloyds couldve given him better information. 
But even if it had done, I dont think it wouldve put him off buying  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against          
Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2788121