K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading at the time as Woolwich,  mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  when he took out a personal loan. For consistency, Ill 
refer to Barclays throughout this decision.
background
These events are from a long time ago and there  isnt much  information available. But it 
looks like Mr H applied  for a loan of £4000 in a bank branch in 1998 and bought a single 
premium PPI policy at the same  time.  This type of PPI policy had to be paid for up front in 
one single payment  and it protected Mr H against losing his job or being unable  to work. 
The PPI cost £471 and this amount was also lent to Mr H by Barclays.  Both the loan and PPI 
part of the loan ran over a period of 36 months. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld  but Mr H disagreed and 
the complaint  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
After over 20 years, its not particularly surprising that Barclays  hasnt  still got Mr Hs original 
loan application  form. Mr H hasnt  been  able to send us any of the documents either.
However, Barclays sent us an example  of a loan application form that it says was used  at 
the time.  I can see on this example that consumers were asked whether or not they wanted  
to have PPI with their loan. There was a section entitled Protecting Your Payments and 
underneath this section there  were  two options.  One was to have PPI and the other  was to 
decline it. The PPI was described on the form as optional.
Theres no dispute PPI was actually sold to Mr H, so I think hed have most likely ticked the 
first option,  which said Yes, I would like to protect my payments with payment protection. I 
dont doubt Mr Hs recollections about  not remembering any PPI discussions are genuinely 
held, but this was a long time ago. And based  on the above, I think its more likely he 
wouldve been given  an option about  buying  the policy and wouldve been able to see he 
didnt have to have this type of cover if he didnt  want it. 
So I think its more likely  he gave his consent  to buying the PPI policy back in 1998.
Barclays says it would  have probably recommended this policy  to Mr H which means it had a 
duty to make  sure that it was suitable for his situation. From what Ive seen, I think Mr H was 
eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been caught by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in these types of policies. 
Ref: DRN28555512Mr H told us he had some sickness  protection  already through his job, implying  he didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why hes told us this but it doesnt necessarily mean he didnt 
have a use for the policy. In the event  of a successful claim for example, it could have paid 
out a monthly  benefit and this would  have been  in addition to any other means  he already 
had in place. 
The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same term lengths and Ive got nothing  to 
suggest he would have wanted to cash the loan in early. So overall,  I think  the policy  was 
suitable for him.
Barclays also had to give information about  the policy that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
I cant say that Mr H was told everything  he should have been. But on the loan agreement 
example Barclays showed  me, the cost of the PPI was prominently set out and described as 
Optional Credit Protection. It also clearly  showed the cost of both the loan and PPI part of 
the loan over the term and the monthly repayments.  So I think  Mr H would have had enough  
information on which to make an informed decision.  
So Im afraid  I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
I can see Mr H had a subsequent loan with PPI (ending in the year 2002) which he received  
some compensation for. Mr H cant understand why hes been  compensated for one of his 
loan complaints - but not the other. But these were different sales, at different times,  and 
they are likely to have had quite different  characteristics  in many ways. 
Ive looked very carefully at the 1998 PPI sale and Im afraid for this complaint, theres very 
little evidence to say it was mis-sold. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. And I dont direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2855551