K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that after an accident  that she says was another  drivers fault Covea 
Insurance plc wrongly settled a claim against her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs Es husband was driving  their car when she says he drove into a junction on an amber  
light. She says their car travelled over 120 feet before it was stuck by another car. Mrs E 
says the other driver went through the lights on his part of the road when they were on red. A 
witness said at the scene that hed seen the accident. He said Mr E jumped a red light.  
Covea said it had to settle the claim given that there  was no independent evidence to 
support Mr and Mrs Es version of events. Mrs E said Covea hadnt investigated the claim 
properly and had ignored the evidence theyd provided.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Es complaint. He noted that Covea  had offered 
Mrs E £200  for poor service and thought  it had acted  reasonably  in settling  the claim.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs E were so frustrated by the settlement. They went to a great deal 
of trouble to provide Covea with evidence about the sequence of traffic light changes  and the 
road layout  at the junction. They explained  in detail why they thought  the witnesss view 
would have been obstructed. I think their version of events is credible. 
What we have  to consider is whether, taking all the facts into account, Covea acted 
reasonably in settling the claim as it did. I understand  why Mr and Mrs E may think Covea 
doesnt believe their version of events. I think that must be upsetting for them if their account 
is accurate. But Covea hasnt said that Mr E was at fault. It said it settled the claim because 
it didnt think it could  defend it. I think the other  drivers insurer  was always likely  to start legal 
proceedings if Covea resisted the claim, because of the independent witness. 
Mrs E says Covea didnt investigate the claim properly. She thought  it should  have  insisted 
on the other driver  providing  a statement.  But I dont  think  Covea needed  to pursue that 
issue when the other  insurer  had told it what his account was  and an independent witness  
had confirmed it. In addition, someone at the scene gave  Mr and Mrs E his details and said 
he saw the other driver go through a red light. It seems Covea only made one attempt to 
contact him. That was part of the reason Covea offered Mrs E compensation.
I think Covea should have done more  to get in touch with the witness, but it isnt uncommon  
for witnesses to decide that they dont want to be involved after all. The witness  may have 
given a statement  had Covea chased  him. But had he done  so, each party would  have had 
an independent witness. In that situation, I think its far more likely than not that the claim 
would have been settled with liability split equally.  So there would still be a fault claim on 
Mrs Es policy. Her premiums would still have  been affected. And Mr and Mrs E still wouldnt 
have had the satisfaction of proving that the other  driver was entirely to blame.
Ref: DRN27502002Insurers generally wont defend a claim  unless theres a reasonable prospect of doing so 
successfully in court. In this case I think it was reasonable for Covea to conclude  that it 
wouldnt have succeeded in defending  the other drivers claim. Mrs E says Covea didnt take 
into account that she and Mr E would have given evidence. But evidence  from an 
independent witness  carries far more weight than the account  of a party to a dispute - or that 
of someone connected  to one of the parties.  We think its reasonable for insurers to avoid 
court proceedings where they arent likely  to be successful.    
Mr and Mrs E think the other  driver may have managed to persuade the witness to give a 
false account. But even  if thats true, theres no way of proving  it. Theyve also pointed out 
that there  are errors in his account of events.  But I dont  think  the errors outweigh the central 
fact he agreed to attest to  which is that Mr E drove through a red light.  
Taking everything into account,  I cant say that Covea acted unreasonably in dealing with the 
claim, so I cant uphold Mrs Es complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2750200