K821x#15complaint
Mrs T, represented  by a claims management  company (CMC), complains that Finance Shop 
Ltds recommendation to surrender a with profits investment bond  and re-invest  her money 
into a new bond  was unsuitable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In it, I explained  why I felt the complaint should be upheld. 
In brief,  I thought the investment advice  exposed Mrs T to too much risk. At the time she was 
approaching retirement  and caring  for her disabled grandchild. I thought re-investing all her 
money in the Casenove  fund, with its very limited track record, was most likely unsuitable for 
her. Notwithstanding its asset allocation, the with profits fund Mrs T had been invested in 
would generally  have been  seen  as a more cautious  investment vehicle  as a result of its 
smoothing and bonus  mechanisms.
Finance Shop didnt agree with my provisional  decision. It felt that conflicting views on the 
complaint previously communicated by this service indicated that my reasons for upholding 
the complaint  were  weak. It also reiterated  its view that commenting  that the advice just 
didnt seem right, as the adjudicator who looked at the complaint had done, wasnt an 
appropriate way of deciding upon the suitability of advice.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further submissions, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so Ive not been persuaded to depart  from the conclusions I reached  in my 
provisional decision. 
I remain of the view that, while it may have been  prudent for Mrs T to move her money away  
from the underperforming with profits investment, her circumstances in 2013  werent  
consistent with placing all the proceeds into a single, untested  fund that carried the level of 
risk associated with the Casenove  fund.  
I note what Finance Shop has said about the comment that the advice  just didnt seem 
right. But I think thats a reasonable conclusion on the matter  when  its reached  following a 
careful consideration of Mrs Ts needs and wider circumstances. I think its entirely clear that 
neither the adjudicator nor I reached the conclusion that the advice  was unsuitable solely  on 
the basis that it didnt seem right. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider my aim should be to put Mrs T as 
close to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mrs T would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  what  she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs T's circumstances and objectives  when she invested. 
Ref: DRN20323752what should  Finance Shop do? 
To compensate Mrs T fairly, Finance Shop must:
Compare the performance of Mrs T's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Finance Shop  should also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
2013 Bond 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Finance Shop 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs T wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
Ref: DRN20323753The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs T's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mrs T into that position. It does not mean that Mrs 
T would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return Mrs T could  have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude. 
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold  
the complaint  and direct Finance Shop Ltd to pay compensation to Mrs T as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20323754EXCERPT PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs T, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that Finance Shop  Ltds 
recommendation to surrender a with profits investment bond and re-invest her money into a new bond 
was unsuitable.
background
Mr T had a with profits  bond that shed started in 2002 with an initial £15,000  investment. 
In 2013 she received advice from Finance Shop. During  a fact-finding process  Mrs T was categorised 
as a balanced  investor;  a 4 on a scale of 1 to 7. As a result, she was advised to invest  in the 
relatively new Cazenove Multi-Manager Diversity Balanced fund. The surrender value  of the original 
with profits bond was just over £23,000 and the whole amount was committed to the new bond, with a 
reduction of just over £1,000 made for charges.  
Mrs T surrendered the bond  three years later in 2016,  receiving back just over £24,000.
The CMC complained on Mrs Ts behalf that the recommendation of the new bond had been 
motivated primarily by commission earnt by the adviser. It said that Mrs T was also incorrectly led to 
believe that the new bond carried the same level of risk as the with profits bond.  And it disputed  her 
categorisation as a balanced investor, noting that among other things this was described as 
someone prepared to suffer  a loss of up to 25% of their capital.  
Finance Shop didnt uphold the complaint  as it felt that, in brief:    
Commission  was not a driving  factor as the adviser was fee-paid
The sale was not a churn  it was reasonable to review the situation after 10 years
The risk associated with the new fund was broadly the same  as the with profits fund had a 
high equity  concentration
The capacity for a 25% loss was broadly acceptable  as Mrs T had an emergency  fund and 
disposable income
There was no diversity  issue as the recommendation was a fund of funds
There was no way of foreseeing that Mrs T would choose to surrender the investment before 
the recommended  minimum five year term 
The CMC then referred the complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator disagreed  with Finance Shop and felt the complaint should be upheld.  He accepted 
that it was reasonable for Mrs Ts existing investment to have been reviewed, as it had been in place 
for around 10 years and wasnt performing particularly well. But he thought that with Mrs T 
approaching retirement and sole-caring for a disabled grandchild, it was unlikely  that shed wanted to 
put her money at the level of risk associated with the Casenove fund. He didnt think  she was in a 
position to accept  a theoretical  25% loss, being a relatively inexperienced,  unsophisticated investor  
with no history of taking  significant risks. 
The adjudicator suggested  that Finance Shop  compensate Mrs T by comparing the performance of 
the recommended  investment bond with that of our cautious investment benchmark.
Finance Shop didnt accept  the adjudicators view. It reiterated  its previous  points and further 
highlighted how it had determined Mrs Ts attitude to risk, through  the discussions the adviser had 
with her and emphasising her emergency fund and disposable income.  In summary, Finance Shop 
didnt feel the adjudicators assessment that the advice just didnt feel right  was reasonable given  the 
full explanations and documentation supplied  to 
Mrs T.
Ref: DRN20323755As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to decide.
   
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, it seems  that a lot of consideration has been given to how Mrs T was invested  prior 
to the advice   in the existing with profits bond. This was quite  an unusual investment  in that, for a 
with profits fund, it was quite heavily  weighted  towards equities  over 50%, with an additional  17% of 
property. So, it may be that this had some  bearing on how Mrs T came to be categorised  as a 
balanced investor,  someone willing and able to accept losses of up to 25%. 
But the original recommendation had been made 10 years earlier  when Mrs Ts circumstances  were 
very different. By 2012 she was approaching retirement and caring for a young, disabled grandchild  
indeed, a large proportion of her income came from child and disability benefits. 
Looking at these circumstances  in isolation  it does seem difficult to reconcile  them  with 
Mrs T wanting to actively  put her limited  funds at the sort of risk associated  with the Casenove fund, 
with its very limited track record, having only been in operation for a year. And I think  its worth noting 
that, notwithstanding its asset allocation, a with profits  investment is generally seen as a more 
cautious investment vehicle as a result of its smoothing and bonus mechanisms. 
Regardless of how Mrs T had invested previously, by 2013 she was in a position  where  I think  she 
should really,  if anything,  have been de-risking. I note what Finance Shop has said about her 
capacity for loss. But this investment represented the bulk of her money. She had an emergency fund 
of sorts  - £400 in a current account and £5,000 in a cash ISA. But this is not really  the sort of financial 
cushion I would expect to see for someone in Mrs Ts somewhat  uncertain circumstances. 
I accept that at the time of the advice there was no clear indication that she was planning to buy a 
property  which was her reason for surrendering relatively early, after only three years.  But I think  its 
reasonable to say that greater  consideration shouldve been  given to the likelihood of her needing 
access to her money given her caring responsibilities. 
In summary, despite Finance Shops comments, I can quite see how the adjudicator  reached the 
conclusion that the advice just didnt seem right. While  separate  elements of an advice  process  may,  
in isolation, suggest  a particular outcome,  I think its nevertheless important to take a step back and 
also look holistically at the situation. And doing so in this case I think it very much  suggests that the 
advice wasnt suitable  for Mrs Ts needs and circumstances.    
Ref: DRN2032375