K820x#14complaint and background
Mr J says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him. It 
provided him with four six-month instalment loans in January 2017.  This is a summary of 
Mr Js lending history from Sunny. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 16/01/2017 - 200
2 20/01/2017 - 100
3 24/01/2017 - 50
4 26/01/2017 11/12/2018 250
The adjudicator thought  loan 4 shouldnt have been  given.  Sunny disagreed.  It said,  in 
summary, it had carried out robust eligibility,  creditworthiness and affordability checks  before 
giving each loan.  And it took into account the repayment of existing loans as well as other 
declared credit commitments. It said this showed  all the loans were affordable for Mr J. So 
the complaint  was passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mr J and Sunny to let me have any more  
information by 10 March 2020 before I made a final decision.
Sunny replied saying  it agreed with my provisional  decision. It also restated the checks it 
completed, arguing they were robust and proportionate.  Mr J did not respond.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new evidence or information, I have no reason to change  
the outcome set out in my provisional  decision.  With regards my finding  about proportionate 
checks, I still think that by loan 4 - given the frequency of borrowing and the significant 
increase in the value of loan 4 - Sunny should have taken further  steps to independently 
verify Mr Js true financial  position.  As I said in my provisional decision, however, from the 
information I have  Im not able to conclude that better checks  would have shown that Sunny 
shouldnt have given  loan 4 to Mr J. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24136002complaint
Mr J says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading  as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  four instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr J in January 2017. All the loans 
were repayable in six monthly instalments. This is a summary of Mr Js lending history from Sunny. 
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 16/01/2017 - 200
2 20/01/2017 - 100
3 24/01/2017 - 50
4 26/01/2017 11/12/2018 250
The adjudicator thought loan 4 shouldnt  have been given. Sunny  disagreed. It said, in summary, it 
had carried out robust eligibility,  creditworthiness  and affordability checks  before giving  each loan. 
And it took into account the repayment of existing  loans as well as other declared credit commitments. 
It said this showed all the loans were affordable for Mr J. So the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr J could repay  the loans in 
a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr J 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN24136003Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Js complaint. 
Like our adjudicator, I think Sunny completed proportionate checks for loans  1 to 3. And I dont think  
there was anything in the information it gathered  that should have  led it to make different lending  
decisions. So I dont  think Sunny was wrong to give loans 1 to 3 to Mr J.
The adjudicator then concluded that by the time Mr J applied for loan 4, with three loans  outstanding, 
Sunny ought to have realised there was a possibility  that Mr J was having problems managing  his 
money and stopped  lending to him.  
In response Sunny set out that its lending  rules allow for a customer  to take out up to four loans within 
a total credit limit that it has assessed to be the maximum they can borrow. And that within this they 
still run their credit and affordability checks at the time of each  separate  application. 
Not withstanding Sunnys explanation about how its product works, given the increase in loan value 
and the fact Mr J had three loans outstanding when he applied for loan 4, I think  Sunny should  have 
completed a fuller financial  review. However,  Ive looked carefully at all the information we have been 
provided with to see what  better checks would have shown Sunny at that time. And having done so, I 
dont think those  checks  would have led Sunny to conclude that Mr J was having problems managing  
his money and so led it to decide not to lend to him at that time.  So, unlike the adjudicator, I dont 
think Sunny  was wrong to give loan 4 to Mr J.
It follows I am currently not planning to uphold this complaint. 
I note there are still balances outstanding on loans 1 to 3 and I would  remind Sunny of its obligation  to 
treat Mr J fairly  and reasonably in any settlement discussions once a final decision is issued.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not planning to uphold this complaint.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2413600