K822xComplaint
Mr D has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  has unfairly  
increased the cost of his pet insurance policy. 
Background
Mr D took out a lifetime  pet insurance policy in 2008. In 2011  the policy became underwritten 
by Red Sands. 
At renewal in 2011 the premium Mr D was offered had increased significantly. Mr D 
contacted Red Sands to complain and received a payment of about £57 as a gesture of 
goodwill.  
In 2016 Red Sands transferred Mr Ds policy from Gold Super cover to Superior Plus.  
Mr Ds premiums continued to increase but in 2017  the premium  Red Sands offered went up 
to around £158  per month  and it was at this point Mr D complained  again.  Hes cancelled 
the policy because  he couldnt afford to continue with it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mr Ds policy  is too high or he 
should have been charged  less for the policy.
While Mr Ds premium  has seen a significant increase, I havent  seen any evidence to 
suggest Red Sands has treated him differently to how it would  have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant say Red Sands has singled him out and treated 
him unfairly  compared  to its other customers or that Red Sands needs  to offer him cover for 
a lower premium going forwards. 
I know this is disappointing for Mr D. I understand this situation  has caused him frustration  
and upset. Due to the medical conditions his pet now has, he cant  find cover  for this 
elsewhere - and hes had to cancel his Red Sands policy as its become  unaffordable for 
him. 
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr D took out, will continue  to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
Ref: DRN23292662cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
When Red Sands became the insurer of Mr Ds policy in 2011  it should have made  these 
longer-term cost implications clear to him before he agreed to continue  with the policy. 
Particularly as the policy was marketed as lifetime insurance. He needed this information to 
properly understand what  it was he was renewing and so he could make an informed choice. 
But I dont think the information Red Sands gave Mr D about the policy in 2011 made this 
clear to him.
Red Sands  have given me some of the documentation from Mr Ds renewal in 2011. I can 
see from a copy of the terms and conditions that they do say that the cost of the policy could  
change. But I cant see that this term has been sufficiently highlighted in either his renewal 
letter or in the Key Facts  document. Mr D wouldve had to read through several pages of 
closely worded text to see it. And in any event, I dont think  the long-term risk that the cost of 
the policy could  rise significantly  is made clear. 
So I dont  think Red Sands gave Mr D clear enough information about  the policy.
Where I find something has gone wrong,  Ill look at whats likely to have happened  if it 
hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost out.
Mr D chose to take out pet insurance,  so he wanted  some type of cover for his dog. And, as 
he chose to take out a lifetime policy, he clearly had some  interest  in the greater level of 
cover it provided. If Mr D hadnt taken a lifetime policy, he wouldve either had no cover  at 
all, and would have had to pay for all his pets treatment himself, or a reduced level of cover,  
where he would still have found  himself  in a situation where  his pets  conditions  were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely  he would still have gone ahead with the renewal of the 
lifetime policy,  even  if hed known the premium  could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mr D wasnt so 
shocked or frustrated  when the cost increased  significantly  instead this would have been  
something he was expecting to happen.  
Mr D is now unable to get cover for his pets pre-existing conditions  and he cant afford to 
keep paying the increasing cost of the policy so he has had to cancel it  this isnt a position 
he expected to find himself in. Better  information  about the policy  wouldve meant that he 
could have been more prepared for the possibility  that he might not be able to afford  to 
continue with the policy and that his pet might  lose cover for its ongoing and pre-existing 
conditions.
In 2016 when Red Sands transferred Mr Ds policy from Gold Super cover to Superior  Plus 
the changes should have  been made  clear  to him. But I can see the changes  did not affect 
the claims Mr D made during that policy year. And although Mr D didnt find out about these 
changes until 2017 its difficult  to say what he would have done  if he had found out in 2016.  I 
think its more likely  he would have continued with the new policy  considering his pets pre-
existing conditions and that these were  still covered under the new terms.  But  I do 
recognise that not being made aware  or given clear information about the change in 2016 
has caused him some distress. 
Ref: DRN23292663Mr D has benefitted from this policy. But the award Im making  isnt about whether Mr D has 
suffered a financial loss. And its also not to help cover his dogs medical  costs  going forward 
 although of course Mr D can use it for that. Its about the impact that the lack of clear  
information provided by Red Sands in both 2011 and 2016 has had on Mr D, both practically  
and emotionally.  I think this lack of clear information  has caused Mr D significant trouble and 
upset for the reasons Ive explained. So I think it would be fair for Red Sands to pay him 
£600 as compensation for this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  should pay Mr D £600 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject this decision before 27 April 2020.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2329266