K820x#14Complaint
Mr L, acting on behalf of The Estate of Ms J, complains that BMW Financial Services(GB) 
Limited (trading as MINI Financial Services) (Mini) didnt fully explain the early termination 
costs to Ms J when she entered into a hire purchase agreement (HPA) to acquire a new car.
Background
Ms J entered into a HPA in March 2018  to acquire a new car. At the time, Ms J had cancer 
and Mr L says that having undergone  treatment  she had thought  she was recovering and 
decided to enter into the agreement. Mr L says that before the acquisition  Ms J had a 
number of conversations with the dealer where she explained her medical situation and 
discussed the potential purchase. Mr L says that while  Ms J was not in the room, her friend 
who had accompanied her, asked the sales adviser if he was aware  of Ms Js medical  
situation and he confirmed he was and that it had been discussed. The friend says she 
asked what would happen if Ms J were  to die and says she was told that some  arrangement  
would be come to.
Mr L says that the agreement was signed but Ms J wasnt told of the potential penalties 
applicable if the agreement was terminated  early.
Ms J sadly  passed away in September 2018. Mini was advised of this and said that there  
was a penalty under the terms and conditions of the agreement  of £5,690.80. Mr L spoke to 
Mini about the situation and the discussion at the point of supply and Mr L was asked to put 
the complaint  in writing.
Mini says that Ms J was presented with the documentation to read before signing including  
the Pre-Contract  Credit Information. It says that following  this an Explanation Document is 
presented which confirms that the customer should carefully consider  the information  
provided and ensure  they understand the key features of the agreement. It says the HPA set 
out the right to terminate the agreement  and the need to pay half the amount payable,  being 
£12,645.00.
Mini says that Ms J signed the documents demonstrating that she had read and accepted  
the terms.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She didnt think  that the agreement had been 
misrepresented to Ms J but said that Ms J should have been treated as a vulnerable  
consumer and that further information  should have  been provided about future scenarios 
and implications. She said that had this happened, Ms J may have made a different decision  
(although she accepted  she couldnt  know this).
Given the circumstances of this complaint our investigator thought  it fair that the shortfall  
between the settlement amount and the sale proceeds should be owed to Ms Js estate. She 
noted that as this complaint was brought by Ms Js estate, distress and inconvenience 
couldnt be considered.
Mini didnt  accept our investigators  view.  It said Ms J signed the documentation and agreed 
that the product met her needs.  It said that the agreement included the Voluntary 
Termination process  and that the investigator  had agreed  the agreement  hadnt been 
misrepresented to Ms J. It said it couldnt  say what was said in the meetings between  Ms J 
and the sales  adviser  but that Ms J was provided  with the information she needed  to make 
an informed decision.  Mini provided further  information regarding the numbers involved in 
Ref: DRN25409942Ms Js agreement  including  the balance outstanding after the Voluntary  Termination  and 
sale of the car.
Mini said that there wasnt evidence of a mis-sale and without this it didnt accept that it 
should be asked  to take further action.
My provisional conclusion
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. A summary of my conclusions is set out 
below.
Ms J entered into a HPA to acquire a new car. Under the regulations, specifically 
section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, Mini could be held liable for information 
provided by the dealer in the antecedent negotiations. That is, what Ms J was told 
before entering  into the HPA.
Ms J had cancer when she entered into the HPA but believed she was recovering. I 
found no reason  why Ms J shouldnt have been  provided finance at this time (subject 
to the appropriate checks being  carried out).
I thought that given  the information provided  at the point  of supply regarding Ms Js 
health, that she should have  been treated as a vulnerable consumer and the sales 
adviser should have taken  the appropriate  steps to ensure  Ms J was aware  of the 
agreement she was entering into.
The documentation  provided to Ms J set out the terms and conditions including 
termination rights. Ms J signed the documentation and so agreed to the terms. I 
didnt find that Ms J was provided  with any incorrect information at this time that 
induced her into entering the HPA.
The issue of early  termination was discussed  and based on the information provided  
it appeared this was dismissed as something that would be sorted if needed. I 
thought more explanation could have happened  at this point, but didnt find that I 
could say this was an act of omission.
I didnt find that a misrepresentation or a mis-sale had occurred.
When Mini was informed  of the situation regarding  Ms J it provided  the estate 
executors with the options available. Given the agreement  hadnt been in place for 
many months before it needed to be settled, and given  the nature of the situation,  
that is an estate dealing with deceased  partys agreement, I thought  it would have 
been reasonable to have also offered the option of voluntary surrender. I had no 
evidence that this option had been provided.
I couldnt say for certain that the executors would have chosen to voluntarily 
surrender the car rather than voluntary terminate but as they had raised concerns 
about the size of the outstanding balance and the costs  incurred given the short  
period the agreement  was in place, I found it reasonable to accept this would have  
been an option that was of interest to them.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision.  He didnt feel that appropriate weight had been 
given to the concerns raised about how Mini had handled this complaint. He reiterated that 
Ref: DRN25409943Ms J should  have been treated as a vulnerable consumer  and that she should have been 
given more information in regard to what would happen if the agreement  had to be 
terminated early.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is a very difficult situation and I understand why concerns have been raised about how 
the agreement  was presented to Ms J but, in this case, I do not find that a mis-sale has 
occurred.
The estate  of Ms J was provided with options regarding the termination of Ms Js agreement. 
However, there is no evidence that the option of voluntary surrender was provided. While 
voluntary surrender is not a regulatory  requirement, it is generally considered to be industry 
practice and it would have meant the car would be returned and sold on behalf of the estate. 
In this case this would have been  a similar course  of action to that opted for under voluntary 
termination. However, under a voluntary surrender the outstanding amount  payable for the 
estate would have  been the difference between the agreement settlement amount and the 
proceeds of the sale (including any costs associated with the sale)  and not limited  to 50% of 
the total amount repayable under the agreement. Voluntary surrender does impact a 
consumers credit file but as this is a case dealing with a deceased consumer that doesnt 
appear relevant.  Based  on the numbers provided for the settlement amount and the sale 
proceeds, it appears that voluntary surrender may have  resulted in a lower  outstanding 
balance for the estate  to pay.
Overall, I find that voluntary surrender should have been offered alongside the other  options  
and that Mini should only require the estate of Ms J to pay the lower of the amount that 
would have been due under a voluntary surrender of the vehicle and the amount that has 
fallen due following  the voluntary termination.
My final decision
My final decision is that BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited should only require the estate 
of Ms J to pay the lower of the amount  that would have been due under a voluntary 
surrender of the vehicle and the amount  that has fallen due following the voluntary 
termination.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L, on behalf of 
the Estate  of Ms J, to accept or reject my decision before  4 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2540994