K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs K complain  about Al Rayan Bank PLC regarding Mr Hs bank  card not working  
for a period  in May 2018. They want Al Rayan Bank  PLC to increase its offer of 
compensation for the embarrassment and inconvenience Mr H suffered. 
background
Mr H and Mrs K have  business and personal  accounts with Al Rayan Bank PLC. 
In late May 2018, on the bank holiday,  Mr H went to use his card at an ATM. The card was 
returned and an error  message displayed. 
Mr H then tried to use the card for a transaction in a shop and it was declined, causing Mr H 
embarrassment. 
Mr H called Al Rayan Bank  and says that he was kept for a long time on a call, then he was 
advised to call back the following day. 
His card began working again  later that day but Mr H and Mrs K were  not notified  of any 
issue or that it had been restored. They have said that they were worried that the card had 
been misused. 
Mr H complained to Al Rayan in Summer 2018.  Al Rayan Bank  responded acknowledging  
that there  had been an issue with their card provider lasting  approximately an hour and a 
half on the relevant  date.  Al Rayan offered Mr H and Mrs K £25 compensation for this. 
Mr H and Mrs K rejected that offer, and Al Rayan Bank increased  its offer to £50 
compensation. 
Mr H and Mrs K were  not satisfied with this final offer and referred their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that the offer made  by Al Rayan was reasonable and in line with awards we would make 
in similar  circumstances. 
Mr H and Mrs K did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have in particular  considered the correspondence between the parties, and the account  
statements showing how the accounts  were used. 
There is no dispute that there was a problem with the card on the relevant date, and that the 
card was unavailable for around an hour and a half. I can also see that MR H spent some  
time on the phone to Al Rayan the day after the issue and was caused some inconvenience.  
I have not, however, seen anything to suggest  that Mr H and Mrs K were caused particular 
inconvenience and distress as a result  of the problem.  Their statements show that the 
Ref: DRN27549642accounts were not in constant use for transactions and I have not seen  evidence  of any 
specific consequences from the unavailability of the card, beyond that Mr H experienced 
embarrassment when  the card was declined and was not able to complete his shopping. 
I think that Al Rayans  offer of £50 reflects this appropriately and is in line with awards we 
would make in similar  circumstances. Consequently,  I do not ask Al Rayan Bank PLC to do 
anything further.  
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr H and Mrs K but I hope my reasons for 
not increasing the award are clear.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr H and Mrs Ks complaint and I do not ask 
Al Rayan  Bank PLC to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2754964