K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
background
Mrs B had an income protection policy with Unum.  She has a history  of poor mental  health,  
including having  suffered  with depression  previously. Mrs B began to suffer with work-related 
stress in November 2017 and found herself  unable to work.  Her policy  had a 24-week 
deferred period  and so in May 2018,  Mrs B made  a claim as she was still not well enough to 
work. 
Unum declined her claim telling Mrs B that work-related stress  was not considered  an 
illness. Mrs B appealed its decision in July 2018,  however, she was later told that she didnt  
meet the policy terms on the basis shed been  involved with another occupation  whilst  she 
said she was too unwell  to work. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Bs complaint in two parts.  He agreed that work-related  
stress is not an illness. Although he noted  Mrs Bs mental health deteriorated to a point  
where she began to suffer with depression. And so, he suggested Unum had not declined 
her claim fairly as he said there was a point  where Mrs B began to suffer with an illness. 
However, he didnt  say Unum should accept Mrs Bs claim because of the other occupation 
Mrs B had been involved with whilst she was off sick. Our investigator said Unum had fairly 
declined her claim because Mrs Bs policy says she must not engage in any other 
occupation whilst shes off work. 
Mrs B strongly refutes Unums findings and has made a number of arguments to challenge 
the suggestion that shes involved in another occupation. Ive summarised her main points;
Shes not involved in another  occupation, rather, this is her hobby which  helps her 
manage the symptoms  of her poor mental  state. Mrs B also highlighted that the 
definition of occupation relied  upon  by our investigator would mean that other 
hobbies, like golf, could be considered  an occupation;
She doesnt make any profit and her HMRC assessment  supports  this as she 
reported £25,000 loss each year. She also highlighted that HMRC doesnt consider 
her cattery  to be a business;
Unum has assumed her role within the cattery when instead  she relies heavily on her 
friends that volunteer their time to help;
Unum hasnt conducted a fair and impartial investigation into her circumstances and 
therefore the evidence collected  cannot be fairly relied upon  and;
Mrs B said many  people she knows have 6-12 neutered pets  suggesting theres 
nothing unusual or out of the ordinary about her choice to do the same.  She also 
commented that any surplus kittens can be given away because  she doesnt  breed 
them for profit.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN24735252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Mrs 
Bs complaint. My reasons are similar to those already given by our investigator, but in short,  
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Unum declined  her claim unfairly. Ill explain 
why.  
Unum, like all insurers, must not unreasonably reject a claim made by one of its customers. 
These are the rules set by the Financial Conduct  Authority  under the Insurance Code of 
Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS). 
Mrs B began feeling stressed in 2017 owing  to a particular set of circumstances that 
unfolded at her workplace  which prevented her from working.  She was diagnosed with work-
related stress which Unum said wasnt an illness and therefore declined  her claim on that 
basis. Mrs B gave  several reasons why Unum  made  an unfair decision to decline her claim.  
She explained the specialists report wasnt impartial, and that her mental  and physical 
health had deteriorated significantly since her work-related stress diagnosis.   
But for Mrs B to bring  a successful claim, she needed to show she was suffering from an 
illness and that it was of sufficient severity  that she was unable to work.  I agree with Unums 
earlier assessment of Mrs Bs complaint because work-related stress isnt considered  an 
illness, rather, its a normal reaction to a set of circumstances  and is usually resolved once 
the circumstance has passed. And so, in the beginning, I think its fair to say Mrs B wasnt  
suffering from an illness and so didnt meet the policy terms. 
Mrs B explained that shes continued  to suffer with health problems, including  depression  
and chronic fatigue  syndrome.  Shes  also explained that this has caused  her to give up work  
altogether, because shes simply too unwell and cannot currently  see herself returning to 
work until shes recovered. 
Its important to note that Im not disagreeing that Mrs B was, and continues  to be, unwell. 
When her circumstances  changed and her health declined, she may have had grounds for a 
successful claim. However, upon her challenge to Unums decision, it took a closer  look at 
Mrs Bs circumstances and discovered shed  been involved with, what its referred to, as 
another occupation whilst she had told it she was too unwell to work. And this is why it has 
continued to deny her claim  because  she hasnt satisfied the policy  terms  which  state 
customers should not engage  in any other  occupation whilst incapacitated. 
Mrs B has strongly refuted this, but having  considered the evidence put forward, Im 
persuaded that Unum has arrived at this decision fairly and based on evidence it collected.  
Mrs B explained that her cattery is her hobby and as part of that, she participated in cat 
shows and occasionally  bred kittens,  among the usual duties associated with this. 
Mrs Bs argument is that she does  not make money from her hobby  and so therefore it 
should not be considered  an occupation.  Unums policy  doesnt  define what it means by 
occupation and so, as our investigator explained, we apply the general meaning described in 
the English dictionary  which describes it as a persons job, regular activity, or hobby. And 
so, Im satisfied Unum has categorised Mrs Bs hobby in a fair and correct  way and has 
applied the relevant term to decline her claim fairly. 
Ref: DRN24735253Mrs B made further representations about  other  hobbies people might  have  and whether 
these should be considered occupations. I understand the connection shes attempted to 
make here but it isnt relevant  to and makes no difference to the individual  circumstances of 
her complaint.
The evidence available suggests  Mrs B was operating  a cattery at the back  of house  in a 
purpose-built outbuilding. In addition,  her website, at times, advertised  kittens  for sale for 
£850 each and mentioned  the cost of importing kittens at £2,000. By her own account Mrs B 
engaged with HMRC for self-assessment purposes  which I think is perhaps  indicative of 
the scale of her hobby as I consider that to be an unusual undertaking, for what Mrs B 
attempted to persuade Unum,  was a simple hobby involving her pets. 
I take on board Mrs Bs comments about many  of the people  she knows  having 6-12 pets.  
But I think thats likely down to the hobby itself attracting like-minded people rather  than a 
cross-section of society.  
Mrs B explained that HMRC does not consider her hobby to be a business, but thats  not the 
test thats being  applied  here. Similarly, Unum isnt suggesting this either. But it has drawn 
parallels between the skills and commitment needed for Mrs Bs hobby and her job, 
particularly as shes said shes too unwell to work. Unum highlighted that her website 
suggested that she effectively vetted prospective new owners  over the phone  or face to face. 
It also suggested she retained rights to make decisions about potential  new owners based 
on information she harvested from questionnaires completed by those purchasers.  
All of which,  I consider  to be reasonable observations, given  the wider  circumstances  of Mrs 
Bs claim. 
Mrs B has subsequently explained  that she does not take an active role within the cattery 
and that she relies heavily on her friends who volunteer to help her. Shes also submitted 
statements to support this. But I think given the wealth of evidence collected by Unum and 
that it appears to successfully demonstrate  that Mrs B was involved in another occupation,  
or hobby as Mrs B referred  to it, Im less persuaded by those accounts. Its for these reasons 
I think Unum declined  Mrs Bs claim fairly, because she simply doesnt meet the policy  
terms.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2473525