K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies with two loans.
background
Mr W took out several loans over the years  with Lloyds. For this decision I am looking at only 
the PPI sold with two of these loans  loan ending  x3767 taken in July 2002, and loan 
ending x7351  taken in 2009.
Mr W complains that he was told he had to take the PPI with each loan. He said he was 
bullied into taking the PPI and that it was useless because he was self-employed  and 
wouldnt have been able to claim.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ws complaint about either PPI policy should be upheld. Mr W 
disagrees, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
did Mr W agree  to take the PPI?
Mr W says that he was led to believe the PPI was part of the loan packages  and that he 
didnt have a choice about taking  them. 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the first loan agreement Mr W signed in 2002. It includes a 
separate section  for PPI and it makes it clear the PPI is optional.  Theres  an X in the box to 
say Mr W wants  the PPI, and hes signed the form. The X is typed, but I think  its likely  it 
was populated as a result of a conversation Mr W had with the representative. If he hadnt  
agreed to it, I think hed have queried it when he saw the credit agreement.
There isnt a copy available for the loan agreement Mr W took out in 2009, although Lloyds  
has provided a sample copy. Again, it makes clear that the PPI is optional.
So I think Mr W chose  to buy the PPI on both occasions, knowing he didnt have to.
were the policies suitable for Mr W?
Lloyds gave Mr W a personal  recommendation to buy both of the policies, so it had a duty to 
take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI was right for him. Looking at Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of each sale which were  essentially the same  I think  that the 
policies were suitable for him. I say this because:
Ref: DRN23375572Mr W was eligible  for the policies and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the 
terms which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such 
as those related  to existing medical  conditions;
Mr W says the policies  werent suitable for him because he was self-employed.  But 
Ive looked at the policies  and I dont think it would have been particularly difficult for 
him to make  a claim if he was out of work;
Mr W says his business  wouldve carried on without the need for him to be physically 
working, so he didnt need the accident and sickness cover either. But I think  Mr W 
wouldve needed someone to fulfil the role he usually undertook, and that wouldve  
meant an additional cost.  The policy wouldve helped cover his loan while  he was 
paying these further costs   and couldve done so potentially  for up to two years at a 
time;
The cost of the first policy,  sold in 2002,  was added to the loan and Mr W paid 
interest on it. If hed decided to pay the loan off early or cancel the PPI he wouldnt 
have received a proportionate refund of the premiums. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest Mr W was planning to do this. The second policy was paid for by a regular 
premium which couldve been cancelled at any time without a financial penalty  so it 
offered Mr W flexibility.
Its possible Mr W didnt  get all the information he ideally shouldve  done to help him make 
his decisions.  For example,  the interest payable on the first policy  premiums wasnt set out 
clearly on the credit  agreement. But I dont think more, or better, information wouldve made 
Mr W act differently and not take the PPI. I say this because the policies were suitable  for 
him in the way Ive described.  And I think the missing  cost information was not enough to 
change Mr Ws mind. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr W lost out as a result of anything Lloyds mightve done 
wrong in relation to the sale. This means  Lloyds doesnt need to pay back  all of the 
premiums Mr W paid.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because  when one of the 
policies was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds 
didnt tell Mr W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. I dont  think the policies were mis-sold, so Lloyds Bank  
Plc doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
Ref: DRN23375573ombudsman
Ref: DRN2337557