K821x#15complaint
Miss P complains  that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited  (MBFS)  charged her 
for damage  to the car at the end of her hire purchase agreement. She says shes  been 
charged for damage  that wasnt present when she returned the car, and for damage that is 
fair wear and tear. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision dated 21 March 2019, 
a copy of which is attached. I concluded that Miss P should have to pay for the damage to 
three of the wheels  because the scratches  and scuffs amounted  to damage,  rather than 
wear and tear. But I didnt  think she should  have to pay for the gouge  in the tyre, because 
this wasnt mentioned in the independent  report.
I invited both parties to provide further  evidence and comments.
MBFS didnt reply to my provisional  decision.
Miss Ps representative said,  in summary, that MBFS  didnt  mention  anything about any 
damage until six weeks after Miss P had returned the car. The damage  is likely to have 
occurred after shed  returned the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in my provisional decision why I didnt think Miss P should  have  to pay for the 
damage to the tyre and that the cost of repair - £295.51  should be removed from MBFSs 
invoice. 
And I explained why I thought the scratches and scuffs on three  of the wheels were  present 
when the car was returned and why these didnt equate to fair wear and tear. I thought 
Miss P should have  to pay for the cost of repair - £255.
Neither party has provided any additional  evidence  which leads me to depart from my earlier  
conclusions.
Ref: DRN29411732my final decision
My final decision is that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the 
charge of £295.51 from its invoice, leaving Miss P with £255 to pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.  
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29411733copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss P complains  that Mercedes-Benz  Financial  Services  UK Limited (MBFS) charged her for 
damage to the car at the end of her hire purchase  agreement. She says shes been charged for 
damage that wasnt present when she returned the car, and for damage that is fair wear and tear. The 
complaint is brought  on her behalf by a third party.
background
Miss P obtained a new car in May 2015 through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. When  the 
agreement ended, in May 2018, she returned the car to the retailer where an independent inspection  
was completed.
MBFS sent Miss P an invoice for £808.56  for the following  items:
Additional vehicle usage £168.05
Dent in right hand front door £90.00
Gouge in left hand front tyre £295.51
Gouge in left hand front wheel £85.00
Gouge in right hand  front wheel £85.00
Gouge in right hand  rear wheel £85.00
Total £808.56
It then decided  to write off £168.05 for the additional vehicle  usage.
In response to Miss Ps complaint, it wrote off £90 for the dent in the door. As a gesture of goodwill, it 
offered to reduce  the remaining  balance by 15%, leaving  Miss P to pay £467.93.
Miss P referred her complaint to us, saying that the gouge to the tyre wasnt there when she returned  
the car and that the scratches on the alloy wheels should  be classed as fair wear and tear.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Miss P should be asked to pay £170 for the damage to two of the 
wheels. He said hed not seen enough evidence to conclude that the tyre was damaged when  Miss P 
returned the car. And he hadnt seen enough evidence  to conclude that the left hand front wheel had 
been damaged. But he thought  the photos provided  by Miss Ps representative showed the damage 
to the two right hand wheels was more than 50mm of the circumference so couldnt  be classed as fair 
wear and tear.
MBFS didnt  agree. It said, in summary, that:
The photo shows a gouge in the left hand front tyre sidewall and its clear  this tyre would  need to 
be replaced. The appraisal by the retailer  notes that the tyre is worn  and should be replaced.
Its clear from the photos its provided that there was damage to three of the alloy wheels and that 
these should all be charged for.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29411734MBFS has written off the additional vehicle usage charge  and the charge  for the dent in the door. It 
says Miss P must still pay for the damage to the tyre and to three of the wheels   although  its agreed 
to reduce that charge by 15%.
tyre damage
MBFS says the left hand front tyre needed to be replaced and its provided a photo showing  a tyre 
with a gouge. Miss P says this damage  wasnt  present when she returned the car to the supplying 
dealer  who kept the car for 12 days before reporting the gouge in the tyre to MBFS. I think its 
possible the gouge was there when Miss P returned the car, but she didnt notice it. Its also possible 
the damage occurred after shed returned  the car.
In the circumstances,  I think its reasonable  to place reliance on the independent inspection which 
was carried out on 26 May 2018. This included  specific  reference to all four tyres. For the left hand 
front tyre, it noted there was a 3mm tread and that the tyre was legal. There  is no mention  of a gouge  
and no mention that the tyre needed replacing.  This also isnt evident from the video evidence. So I 
dont think its fair that Miss P should be charged  for the cost of a new tyre and I think MBFS should 
remove this charge from its invoice.
wheel damage
MBFS has asked Miss P to pay for damage to three wheels. Our adjudicator concluded  that the 
photographs hed been  provided with  by both parties  only evidenced damage to two wheels. He 
concluded this damage didnt equate to fair wear and tear.
The independent inspection report identified damage to all four wheels. But one seems to have been 
minor enough for MBFS to treat it as fair wear  and tear. Ive considered carefully the photos  that both 
parties have  provided, together with the video  evidence.  I think the photos provided  by MBFS show 
scratches and scuffs  on three of the wheels.  And its reasonably clear from the photos  that the 
scratches are more than 50mm of the total circumference  of the wheel rims.  This is more than The 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association say can be classed as fair wear  and tear. So I think 
Miss P should  pay £255  for the damage to the three wheels.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that to resolve  this complaint, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should remove the charge of £295.51 from its invoice.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2941173