K820x#14complaint
Mr A owned  a business. He complained that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as 
Lombard North Central Plc) mis-sold him several  payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policies in connection with various business  loans he took out.
For consistency Im going to refer mainly to Lombard in this decision.
background
Mr A entered into a large  number of conditional sale agreements with Lombard in the course  
of borrowing  to support  his business  activities. The particular agreement  Im referring  to here 
is the one that began in June 2005.  I understand  Mr A has had final decision about a 
number of other such agreements he had with Lombard at around  that time. 
Mr A says he was sold PPI in connection with this June 2005 agreement. In fact, we now 
know the insurance policy that Mr A took out with his business loan wasnt a typical PPI 
policy as such.  This is because it didnt cover Mr As loan repayments if he was off work sick 
or lost his job. Instead it provided life cover, permanent and total disability benefit and loss of 
eye and limb cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold Mr As complaint. Mr A didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A says that he was told that he needed  to take the insurance out for the application(s)  to 
succeed. This is his point  of complaint relating to all the loans. He says that he didnt need  
the insurance because income would still have been generated if he wasnt  able to work.  
Lombard says that the insurance  was presented  to him as optional.
However, I think its important and fair to keep in mind that Mr A had bought  a large  number 
 around 16 - of very similar insurance  policies from Lombard over the years.  Given that, Id 
have expected him to have a level of familiarity  with the sale paperwork. Ive also looked to 
the documents from the time of this sale and seen a copy of the conditional sale agreement  
and the application form for this loan. 
The application form sets out two equally clear  options to either take or refuse the insurance. 
I can see that the box to take insurance  has been ticked  and Mr A signed  this form. I havent 
identified anything in the wording of the form which would suggest  that the policy was 
compulsory.
So although  its obviously  possible that Mr A was told he had to take the policy out despite  
what the documents show, I find it quite unlikely that he was told over the course  of many 
sales  and by different  people  that he was required to have this cover.
Ref: DRN28681372I therefore think he consented.
I note the application form says we recommend taking the policy out. But aside from this, 
there is nothing which  suggests to me that a recommendation was made based on Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale. So I dont  think Lombard needed to take steps to 
ensure the policy  was suitable for Mr A.
But Lombard  still had to give Mr A information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that 
he could make an informed decision about  whether or not to take the policy out. I cant  say 
he was told everything  that he shouldve been  told, but I dont think this would have made  
any difference to what he went on to do. 
This is because I think Mr A was eligible for the cover  and the evidence  shows  it was 
something he wanted to have. From the conditional  sale agreement, I can see that the cost 
of the policy  was set out and so I think Mr A wouldve been aware of the charges he would 
incur. He also ticked and signed the PPI application form to say that the benefits of the policy 
had been explained to him and I think the £14 monthly cost of the cover was affordable for 
him - it would have  helped  out in financially or unforeseen  situations that might occur.  
With this in mind, I think its much more likely Mr A elected to buy the cover because  it was 
something he wanted to have. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr As complaint or require The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as 
Lombard North Central Plc to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2868137