K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Billing Finance  Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to end the agreement, reject the 
vehicle and to be compensated  for the losses he says hes incurred.
background
Mr A tells us he took delivery of the vehicle on 22 May 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as T. 
He said that almost immediately he started to notice faults including  blue smoke  from the 
exhaust and issues  with brakes and battery. On 11 June 2018  he states that he tried to 
reject the vehicle but T wouldnt accept this and told him he should refer any issues to the 
warranty company. Mr A says that hes had repairs done to the vehicle including replacing 
the battery, brake pads  and discs. And that the starter and alternator were  replaced under 
warranty. In early August  2018, Mr A explains that the vehicle broke  down again  and was 
later inspected by a franchised  dealer  Ill refer to as FN. This inspection had involved the 
removal of the cylinder head. And that FN had confirmed  that a replacement engine  was 
required. Mr A states that hes been  forced to take out a new finance agreement for another 
vehicle. And that his faulty vehicle hasnt  been  driven since August 2018. He also points out 
that the mileage  recorded on the finance agreement (102,000) is incorrect  and is less than 
on the sales invoice  he supplied. And that the vehicle had covered only around an extra  
3,300 miles prior to the breakdown. This is much  less than the figure  of up to 7,000 miles 
which he says Billing stated in its final response letter.
Mr A has told us that hes provided  a sales invoice which shows he paid £4,895 for the 
vehicle. Which included  a cash deposit paid directly to T. But that hes since  seen  that the 
cash price recorded  on the finance  agreement is only £4,260  without any deposit being 
mentioned.
Billing told us the vehicle  had been  examined  by an independent company Ill call AC. It 
said the vehicle  had been in a dismantled  state and the inspector hadnt been able to 
determine true liability. It said that the engine  having been dismantled  without  its (Billing)  
permission meant it was impossible to determine  if the issue  was present at the point of 
supply. It said Mr A hadnt made any payments since 12 November 2018.
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. My first provisional  decision on 17 
June 2020 stated that I intended to uphold the complaint as I felt the vehicle  wasnt of 
satisfactory when supplied. I said I thought Mr A should be able to reject the vehicle and end 
the agreement. My second provisional  decision was issued in 27 July 2020.  This dealt with 
issues which had been raised following my first provisional decision. This mainly  concerned  
the deposit of £700  which  Mr A has told me hed paid towards the vehicle. 
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  decisions.
Mr A has re-stated  that he sold his own vehicle privately,  to a friend of his, and settled  the 
existing finance.  And that he paid a further cash deposit to T in respect of the replacement  
vehicle as set out on the sales invoice he provided. 
Billing said that the finance agreement didnt indicate that any deposit had been paid.
And it said the sales invoice was dated a week before the finance agreement. It suggested  it 
was probably just an illustration prior to any deal being agreed.
Ref: DRN28046012I thank both parties for their replies.  And Ive taken these into consideration in reaching  my 
final decision. For reasons which Ill explain in my findings which  are set out below, Im not 
minded to change  the view I expressed in my second provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A suffered problems with this vehicle so soon after he acquired  it. 
Unfortunately, with older, high mileage vehicles faults are more  likely to occur  than with 
newer vehicles. I can see that in the aftermath hes experienced considerable inconvenience 
and frustration in trying to get his complaint resolved.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Billing  supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant law here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). This states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. And where  goods arent 
of satisfactory quality the CRA gives consumers (subject to certain conditions and time 
limits) the right to reject  the goods  or require repairs to be carried out.
Although Ive been provided with a substantial amount of information from both parties 
theres still a lot of gaps  and uncertainty. Where information is unclear or contradictory  as 
some of it is here - I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Our adjudicator provided a comprehensive timeline of events in her view of 1 August 2019. I 
dont intend to repeat that here as the parties have  seen  it. Instead - as far as is possible  
Ill concentrate on those issues which arent in dispute. That takes us back to shortly after 
the time of supply.
On or around 2 June 2018  Mr A had brake pads, discs and a new battery  fitted. Whilst these 
are serviceable items, I dont think any reasonable person would expect  to need 
replacements for such parts within less than two weeks of supply. I note that in February  
2016 the vehicle passed a MOT with advisories about worn brake discs and pads. At that 
time the recorded  mileage was 99,204. Its more probable than not that these issues hadnt 
been addressed  by T before the vehicle was supplied  to Mr A. As these are serviceable 
items and although  it was, in my opinion, poor customer service not to have replaced  them  
before the vehicle  was supplied to Mr A, this wouldnt itself result  in the vehicle not being of 
satisfactory quality. And I shant ask Billing to refund the cost of these items.
Mr A then reported various  issues including blue smoke emitting from the exhaust  and tried 
to reject the vehicle. Ive seen an email to T, dated 4 June 2018, which sets out his 
concerns. Mr A states that T referred him to the warranty provider. Thats  consistent with 
what later happened  and I accept what Mr A has said in this respect.
Having not been permitted to reject the vehicle Mr A seems to have been  left with little 
choice but to use it. And again its not in dispute that on 25 July 2018 the vehicle was taken 
Ref: DRN28046013to a repair centre operated by a company Ill refer to as H. Mr A had been referred to H by 
his warranty company. The alternator and starter were replaced  under warranty.  But I note a 
wiring loom was also repaired. This is again  consistent with the vehicle not being  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Its not in dispute  that the finance agreement records the odometer reading as 102,000  miles 
at the point of supply.  The previous MOT history shows that on 6 November 2017 the vehicle 
passed with an odometer reading  recorded as 104,038 miles. Its more  probable  than not 
that the MOT reading is accurate. And the same  sales  invoice that details the vehicle as 
costing £4,895  with Mr A paying  a deposit of £250   lists the mileage as 106,000.
I dont think anything substantial turns  on this point as it wouldve been reasonable to expect  
Mr A to check  the mileage  at the time of supply. And if he had concerns to raise  them  at that 
point. As this didnt  happen, Im not satisfied the discrepancy in mileage amounts to a 
misrepresentation. But it also indicates  that the mileage travelled prior to the breakdown was 
less than it might have appeared from the finance  agreement.
Having had repairs done, the vehicle  again  broke down, and I think  Mr A was faced with a 
difficult situation. Given his previous  experience  he was entitled  to think he was going  to be 
required to prove the vehicle  was faulty. I dont  find his decision to have FN inspect it to be 
unreasonable. As a franchised  dealer FN was qualified to diagnose the vehicle required a 
replacement engine.
Its been suggested that T considered that this inspection work had removed its opportunity  
under the CRA to determine if the issues had been present at the point of sale.  I dont accept 
this assertion. T had not shown  any obvious  recognition of Mr As CRA  rights when declining 
to accept his rejection  of the vehicle  and referring  him to the warranty  provider. Still less did 
it seem  concerned to have supplied a vehicle which needed so many major repairs  within  a 
few weeks of supply.
It shouldnt be overlooked that where goods dont conform  to contract within  six months of 
supply its up to the dealer / supplier of goods to show the goods were of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. Warranties have  no bearing  on aspects of satisfactory quality. If a supplier 
provides a warranty, that might be an additional benefit to a consumer. But its not a 
substitute for statutory  rights contained  in the CRA.  T had been  given ample  opportunity to 
put things right and hadnt done  so.
Whilst ACs inspection of the vehicle was inconclusive, I dont find that this affects my 
decision. Ive already  explained that by then it ought to have been clear  to both T and Billing  
that the vehicle hadnt  been of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr A. And that he should  
have been permitted to reject  the vehicle and end the agreement. Accordingly, Im upholding 
the complaint.  I find that Mr A should be able to end the agreement and reject the vehicle.
Normally in such circumstances our approach would be that the consumer would be 
refunded any deposit  paid at the time of supply. And would have to pay only for fair use in 
the form of contractual monthly payments  for that period the vehicle had been available for 
use.
Unfortunately, the information Ive been provided  with is inconsistent and in parts  
contradictory. 
Ref: DRN28046014A sales invoice provided by Mr A and dated 14 May 2018 indicates the vehicle price was 
£4,895 with a cash deposit of £250 being paid. Hes told me that his previous vehicle was 
sold privately to a friend of his and that the finance was paid off without any involvement 
from T.
A sales invoice provided by Billing  and which bears Ts letter heading  indicates a cash 
price for the vehicle  of £4,260 with no deposit.  This is repeated in the written  finance 
agreement.
Billing has suggested that as the finance agreement wasnt signed until a week after the 
sales invoice provided to Mr A was dated,  it probably indicated that this document was no 
more than an illustration  of what deal might  be available.
Ive thought about this and Ive decided theres a far more likely explanation.  
The sale price on this invoice is £4,895  and it shows a deposit of £250 as part of that figure.
Mr A is adamant he paid T a cash deposit  and on a balance of probabilities I find that this is 
what most probably happened. 
It seems  unlikely  the sale price of the vehicle wouldve reduced by more  than £600 in a 
week. I think its more likely that T simply used the anticipated net balance  when sending  its 
invoice to Billing and didnt include the fact that it was also accepting a cash deposit.
I also note that the printed finance agreement is incorrect in the mileage recorded upon  it. 
Accordingly, its contents have to be treated with some caution.
Having said that Ive only seen sufficient proof that £250  cash was paid. And I only intend  to 
award that sum in respect of the deposit. Ive not been provided  with a receipt for the £385 
which was the remaining  balance. Im not doubting  that Mr A has told me what  he honestly 
recalls. But with cash transactions of this nature Id expect there to be a receipt. And Mr As 
recollection of events hasnt always been completely  accurate in terms of precise detail. In a 
complaint letter to Billing in November 2018  for example, he suggested hed paid £4,960  for 
the vehicle with a £700 cash deposit.  Ive decided  it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
require Billing  to refund the unreceipted amount.
I also need to deal with an ancillary  issue about  storage  charges  which  Mr A states hes 
incurred whilst awaiting the outcome of this complaint. Ive been provided  with a document  
which is headed Garage  rental payment records. The document  contains  no details or 
address relating to who prepared it or any other  means by which  it might  be identified.  Ive 
also seen an email  dated 14 April 2020  which makes reference  to rental payments. It 
appears to be from someone  who shares  the same  surname  as Mr A. And I find its more 
probable than not that this is just an informal family  arrangement. I dont find that it would be 
fair and reasonable to make any award for alleged consequential losses  based  on this 
information.
Finally, on the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience I think  a figure of £100 
is more appropriate  than the £250 originally recommended. I accept  Mr A has been caused 
inconvenience. But I think many  of the problems  hes experienced arise  from Ts actions in 
the early weeks after supply. I cant hold Billing responsible for any failings in Ts level of 
customer service.
Ref: DRN28046015Im aware that Ive not made awards for all the items of consequential  loss which Mr A has 
claimed. And I accept  that this is likely to come  as a disappointment to him. But in deciding 
whether or not to accept  my final decision it should be taken into account that it must be 
accepted or rejected as a whole.
my final decision
I intend to uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  of this complaint I intend  to require Billing  Finance Ltd to take the 
following action:
1.Cancel the agreement with nothing further  for Mr A to pay from 8 August 2018. 
Payments due up to this date may be retained by Billing in respect of fair use of the 
vehicle;
2.Arrange collection  of the vehicle at no further  cost to Mr A;
3.Refund any monthly payments paid for any period due to accrue from 8 August 2018. 
Pro rata calculations should be made  where  required;
4.Refund £627 cost of FNs inspection and diagnostic costs;
5.Refund £49.99 for Hs diagnostic costs;
6.Refund £102 tow charges;
7.Refund £210 being the cost of repairs to wiring loom;
8.Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience  caused due to loss of use of vehicle;
9.Arrange to have  any adverse details relating to this finance agreement removed from 
Mr As credit file. And have it recorded  as settled.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should  be added to items 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 above 
from date of payment  to date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2804601