K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Covea Insurance  plc provided  very poor service  to her after she made 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.
background
Ms Os car was damaged in an accident in April 2018. Coveas engineer  said it was beyond  
economic repair. When  discussing the total loss payment on 17 May 2018  Ms O said there 
were little bits and bobs  left in the car. She said she wasnt  going  to collect  them,  so 
Coveas advisor said shed ask the salvage  agent  to search the car. It seems that message 
wasnt passed on at the time. Ms O called to enquire about the items in mid-June 2018.  At 
that point Covea asked the salvage  agent  to check the car. But on 2 July 2018  Ms O was 
told it had been  taken by the new owner before a search could be done.  
Ms Os policy had a limit of £100 for personal  items lost whilst left in a car. But Covea agreed 
to pay £445 for the items Ms O said were left in it. Covea  also offered her £250  for distress 
and inconvenience  for its error and poor service.  
Covea increased  the compensation by £100  when Ms Os complaint was escalated,  but she 
thought £2,000 compensation should  be paid. She said a memory  stick left in the car 
contained photos of her daughter that were irreplaceable. She said her CV was also on it, 
and that letters showing her address were in the car. Ms O also said her bank had told her 
about an unauthorised transaction after the car was sold. She thought it may be connected.   
As Ms O wasnt happy with the way Covea dealt with her complaint, one of our investigators  
reviewed her concerns.  He thought  Covea  had made a reasonable effort to put things right.  
He thought paying Ms O for the items shed listed and offering  £350 compensation was fair. 
He said it was hard to put a price on the loss of photos and personal data. In his view it 
wasnt wrong for Covea  to say there was nothing to link the bank transaction  to the sale of 
the car. And having listened to numerous calls,  he thought Coveas advisors had listened to 
Ms O, acknowledged any poor service  and apologised. 
Ms O didnt accept the investigators view, so the complaint was passed  to me for review.  I 
issued a provisional decision as follows:
Ive listened to all the call recordings we have between Ms 
O and Covea. I dont  think there  was any rudeness on the part of its advisors, as Ms O has 
suggested. From what Ive heard, they were  polite and did their best to help her in what was 
a difficult and sensitive  situation.
Ms O also complained about Coveas a failure to return calls. She said she had to chase it to 
move matters on. But I think Coveas compensation covers any general poor service. 
An email  to Covea  from the salvage agent  on 5 July 2018 said that when Ms Os car was 
declared a total loss, the garage  asked her to collect  any personal  items from it. It said she 
declined to do so. There isnt a copy of the call between Ms O and the garage. But its 
content is confirmed  by the call between her and Covea on 17 May 2018. Ms O didnt take 
up the chance to collect  her belongings from the car before the salvage  agent took it away. 
Coveas advisor then made an error  by not asking the salvage firm to search Ms Os car at 
that point. Its not possible  to say if the error would have been made had the advisor known 
there were photos and valuable items  in the car, rather  than bits and bobs. It seems Ms O 
Ref: DRN22307812may not have known  about the memory stick at that point. In one of the calls,  she infers that 
she didnt know, as her partner normally dealt with it and had left it in the car. 
Covea tried to correct its error by contacting the salvage yard, but by then the car had been  
sold and was due to be collected. It isnt clear why there was no time for the salvage agent 
to search it before  the new owner was given the keys. But I dont think Covea had any 
control over that. The salvage agent says its recovery  sheet (signed by the garage) doesnt 
show there were any personal  items in the car. And the images it took showed no record of 
any items either. So theres  no evidence of what was taken  or when. 
I think Covea acted  reasonably in paying  more than the policy  limit for the items Ms O listed 
as missing  especially  without any receipts. Ms O says at times she thought she was being 
blamed for leaving the items in the car. In my view Coveas advisors  didnt show  a lack of 
empathy. But I think it was fair for them to ask why Ms O didnt remove  her belongings when 
given the chance. The missing items could have been taken at any point after she gave up 
possession of the car. So I think it would be impossible for Covea to establish  who took them 
and where they are now, which  is what Ms O would like it to do. 
In my view, the £250 offered by Covea for poor service was reasonable. But I think  the £100 
it offered for its error on 17 May 2018 was too low. That error led to worry for Ms O about the 
loss of her personal  details. Naturally, she was concerned  about  how they might be used. It 
seems theres no evidence to date that anyone has used them  and nothing  to link what 
happened to the unauthorised bank transaction. The investigator  told Ms O that she could 
contact the Information  Commissioners  Office  (ICO) about the data protection issue,  as we 
cant say whether theres been a breach of the regulations. I agree with that.
The other issue included  in Coveas offer of £100  compensation  was the loss of the family 
photos. I dont  think  its possible  to make up for their loss, as theyre literally priceless. But I 
think Ms O should be compensated for the distress the loss of the photos caused. In my 
opinion, a further £150 would be appropriate. That would make  a total payment for distress 
and inconvenience  of £500, which I think is a substantial  sum. 
I asked the parties  to comment. Covea didnt  understand why the compensation had been 
raised. Ms O disagreed with my view of the calls with Covea. She said the legal advice she 
got meant a payment of £2,000 was fair, as Covea  had been negligent. She said a child was 
involved but it hadnt been taken  into account. She said a bogus official had entered  her 
home. And she still thought the fraud on her account was linked to the loss of her data.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant comment on the legal advice Ms O has been  given,  but she can take legal action if 
she thinks that advice  makes it an appropriate  option. Only a court can decide  whether her 
claim should succeed - and if so what compensation should be paid. 
We award compensation based on what we think is fair and reasonable, taking into account  
all the circumstances  of the complaint. I dont think its fair and reasonable in this case to 
award Ms O £2,000  compensation.
Ref: DRN22307813Although Ms O doesnt agree  with my view of the way Coveas  advisors handled the calls 
with her, I think they were helpful and showed empathy towards Ms Os situation.
I think the effect on Ms O of the loss of her personal  items and data was substantial, in terms 
of the distress it caused her. Thats  why I thought  the compensation  should  be raised to 
£500. I took into account that Ms O was very upset  about the loss of irreplaceable family 
photos, especially  the ones of her child. 
I know Ms O remains very concerned about the possible  consequences of the loss of her 
personal data. But I dont think shes been able to show that the unauthorised bank 
transaction was connected to it. Ms O hadnt mentioned previously  the bogus official  who 
entered her home. It seems theres  no evidence to show  that the incident was connected to 
the loss of data.  In my opinion, bogus callers are often opportunistic, but its a serious matter  
that I think is for the police  to investigate. And as I said in my provisional decision, its open  
to Ms O to contact the ICO for advice  on data protection breaches.    
Despite Ms Os disappointment with my view of her complaint, I still think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Covea to deal with it by paying  her a further £150 compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Covea Insurance  plc to pay 
Ms O a further £150 compensation for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the Financial  Ombudsman Services rules I must ask Ms O to accept or reject  my 
decision before  2 February 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2230781