K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc:
applied its affordability test incorrectly in refusing his application to extend the term of his 
mortgage;
incorrectly told him there was insufficient  term remaining on the mortgage to switch  to 
another product. Santander  agreed  to rectify this by adjusting the mortgage balance  but 
the amount it deducted was wrong.
To resolve  his complaint  hed like Santander to extend his mortgage term to give him more  
time to settle the balance. Hed also like the extra interest hes paid to be refunded,  and he 
would like the balance  of his mortgage corrected. 
background 
application to extend term
On 13 July 2007 Mr J, a professional consultant, took out an interest-only mortgage with 
Santander for a term of ten years. The amount borrowed  was £261,499.00.
The term of the mortgage would thus end in July 2017. Mr J said in a letter to Santander 
dated 7 June 2017: Back  in 2007 I took out this interest only mortgage on a short 10 year 
term, as I was earning c. £100k pa and felt that I could  comfortably  repay the balance in 
time. However he went on to explain that in 2012 hed started up a new company and chose 
to reduce the income he took in order to get the business up and running. As a result  of this 
change of career direction he didnt have  the money available to pay off the balance of his 
mortgage.
Mr J says that when he applied to extend the mortgage term Santander said hed failed the 
affordability checks and couldnt have the extension. He says Santander has only been 
interested in his income for the years  2013-2016: the precise period when he had elected  to 
forego income  in order to grow his new business.  Prior to these three years his earnings  
were very high, and subsequently (since the success of his new business) they have also 
been high. Santander wasnt prepared to look at the broader (more representative)  picture.
Mr J acknowledged to Santander that the mortgage term had been unrealistically short, that 
his investments hadnt performed well, and that hed spent £100,000 on house 
improvements and also invested money  in the new business. He said the business would 
have healthy revenues for the financial year 2017-2018 as it had won large  contracts. 
Through the business or client contracting his income going forward  would be substantial.  
His accountants had confirmed that the last three years accounts  had been "exceptional" 
owing to his founding and building a new company.
Mr J also provided to Santander:
a projection from his investment manager  forecasting substantial growth from an initial 
investment of £60,000 based  upon  the 7% compound interest rate rule.  He said this 
presented a viable  and coherent  plan for the repayment strategy, and requested that 
Santander extend his interest only mortgage for a further term of ten years.
Ref: DRN23427772a documentation  pack on which  he commented:
A set of draft accounts for  Ltd. This shows low revenues  as the company was not 
actively trading in this period.A set of draft accounts for  Ltd. This shows  a loss of 
£ in 2017 off the back of research and development expenditure.My current contract 
with  is at £300 a day . This is likely to rise significantly over the next year as the 
company is seeing  rapid growth off the back of some recent major contract wins. My 
existing investment total is higher  than I first thought. It is in fact £98k. This year  
started generating revenues. It has recently  won contracts with some significant 
organisations and will see significant  immediate revenue from these.
In response Santander  requested more information  about Mr Js individual  circumstances, 
including details about his income  and outgoings.  It said that once  he had this information to 
hand he should call one of its mortgage  advisers.  Mr J says he did this but Santander  asked 
him to submit a new application in the same way as before i.e. just looking at the standard  
affordability checks on the misleading three  years in question.
Mr J says he has provided plenty of evidence to Santander to demonstrate his true financial 
circumstances and earnings, but that ultimately it always boils down to how much money he 
took from his business  while he was starting  it over those three  years. Santander refuses  to 
look at his profession, his long term earnings, or his current circumstances.
incorrect balance
Mr J also says he was moved to the standard variable  rate (SVR) in March  2016 as his then 
fixed rate product had come to an end. Santander told him there  was insufficient term 
remaining on the mortgage to switch to another product.
This turned out to be incorrect.  Santander should  have offered to switch him to a lifetime 
tracker mortgage  for the remainder of the term. He says Santander admitted its error, 
compensated him with £350 and said it would adjust his mortgage  balance to reflect the 
differential with the tracker rate by accommodating  the increased monthly payments he 
would be making  for the next 16 months. However  the amount  Santander  deducted from his 
mortgage balance  was incorrect and remains so. He says nobody  seems able to discuss 
this.
Santander responded as follows to the complaint  about the incorrect mortgage  balance:
.we issued a complaint response in 2016  which confirmed we would provide Mr J with a 
differential payment  to account for the difference between the standard variable rate and a 
tracker product. This differential figure was calculated until the contractual end of the 
mortgage of 1 July 2017.  Whilst Mr J accepted  the amount we provided in settlement of his 
complaint, he queried the figure  in 2017. Unfortunately I cannot  see that the query  was 
responded to as the focus appeared to be on the matured interest only mortgage  instead.
I have taken the opportunity to consider the calculation which  took place in 2016 and agree 
the basis of it was correct.  In order for Mr J to have been eligible for the tracker rate, a 
capital repayment  of £2,800.00 was required.  When the gross interest differential was 
calculated, rather than insisting that Mr J make the capital repayment first, we deducted 
£2,800.00 from our payment along with the £499.99  booking fee which  would have been 
applicable. However, I have identified that whilst we credited the net amount of £3,793.95 to 
Ref: DRN23427773the mortgage account, we did not credit  the deducted £2,800.00 to the mortgage account as 
a capital repayment. Therefore Mr J was correct to query this.
To rectify the account balance  I have been able to establish that we need to make a total 
payment of £3,166.85 to the mortgage account which incorporates the £2,800.00 and 
backdated interest of £366.85. In addition to this, I would like to offer Mr J a goodwill 
payment of £250  in recognition of our error. This would  mean  a total settlement  payment of 
£3,416.85. 
I would add that the calculation for applying the differential up until 1 July 2017 was correct 
as this is when  the term was due to end. We would not offer any differential payment beyond 
1 July 2017 as the debt should  have  been  repaid in full at that point.
Mr J then brought his complaints to us and one of our investigators looked into them.
application to extend term
As regards  the application for the term to be extended, the investigator said Santander  
wasnt obliged to offer Mr J a term extension. But it should give the request fair and 
reasonable consideration. Mr J believed it to be unfair that the application was declined  
based on his reduced income. But the investigator  didnt think Santander had been unfair.
She said Mr J wanted Santander to take into consideration  the income he predicted  in 2017 
for his business. However, the investigator  thought it was reasonable that Santander based 
its checks on the figures available at the time, rather than Mr Js prospective income. It was 
common for lenders  to look at applications from self-employed  customers in this way, and 
the investigator thought it was reasonable here.
The investigator could  see that Santander  had looked into extending Mr Js mortgage on 
both an interest only and a capital and interest  repayment basis. Either  way, based on his 
income leading  up to the application, he didnt meet Santanders affordability  requirement. 
The investigator didnt  think it was unreasonable for Santander to decline Mr Js term 
extension request.
Santander had said Mr J could submit a fresh application giving updated  figures if he 
wished. If hed like to make a new application,  he could do this by contacting the interest 
only maturities team.
incorrect balance
As regards  the mortgage balance the investigator  thought Santander should revisit the 
goodwill payment and allow Mr J to decide what he would like to do with the £250 rather  
than applying it to the mortgage  account. Otherwise  she thought Santanders proposal was 
fair.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for review by an ombudsman. He said the affordability test had 
been incorrectly applied.  Santander had focussed solely on an exceptional  period  in his 
financial status. He had elected  to temporarily  sacrifice his high income level in order to start 
a new business.  His earning capacity was unchanged. MCOB 11.6 said:
9 (3) for a self-employed customer, a firm may wish to consider using projections of future 
income, where these  form part of a credible business plan.
Ref: DRN2342777414 If a firm is, or should reasonably be aware from information obtained during the 
application process, that there will, or are likely to, be future changes  to the income  and 
expenditure of the customer during the term of the regulated mortgage contract or home 
purchase plan, the firm must take them into account  when  assessing whether the customer 
will be able to pay the sums due for the purposes of MCOB  11.6.2  R
Mr J acknowledged that this was usually applied  to situations where income was likely to be 
lower than at the time of application e.g. retirement. However, it wasnt exclusively mandated 
for that purpose.  It should also apply where  it was clear that an applicants income was likely 
to be significantly increased.
Mr J said the business  now employed eight people  and had secured a number of long-term  
contracts with high profile clients. The revenue growth for the business had been:
2016- 2017:  £9k
2017- 2018:  £100k
2018 - 2019: £285k (accounts to be published  in the next few weeks)
2019 - 2020 (current): £600k forecast
I took a different view of the complaint from the investigator.  So I decided  to issue a 
provisional decision, setting out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both 
parties have now responded and so I issue my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
application to extend term
The regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), sets out in its rules that for interest 
only mortgages, it expects  stringent assessments  of affordability and repayment  strategies, 
before lenders agree to vary existing  mortgages, for example by extending  the term.
However this doesnt apply  to varying  a mortgage provided the variation doesnt involve 
additional borrowing  and theres no change likely to be material to affordability. It also 
doesnt apply  to a variation which is made solely for the purposes of forbearance where the 
customer has a payment shortfall, or in order to avoid  a payment shortfall.
Mr J says he only had £100,000 in savings against  a mortgage amount of some £260,000. 
Santander says the term ended  with no suitable  repayment vehicle in place and without Mr J 
having the funds available  to repay  the capital. So Mr Js reason for seeking  a term 
extension was to avoid a payment shortfall. It follows  that Santander wasnt obliged to refuse 
an extension.  So was it fair to do so?
The question then is whether Mr J had a credible  plan to repay at the end of a revised term. 
A term extension might  be fair to allow him to get to a credible  end point in a reasonable 
time, but probably  not where  it would just be delaying the inevitable.
There are problems with Mr Js plans. The investment managers projection  was based on 
predictions of the future performance of managed funds and assumptions about likely  
returns over a ten year period. The other material included  accounts which  Mr J himself 
Ref: DRN23427775described as showing  low revenues and a loss. Santander understandably  had 
reservations about this.
On 14 August 2017 Mr J said to Santander:  Your affordability assessment has been based 
on 2014 (£60k revenue), 2015 (£0 revenue),  and 2016 (£37k  revenue).
However the figures he gave to our investigator  on 6 August 2019  were:
2016- 2017:  £9k
2017- 2018:  £100k
2018 - 2019: £285k (accounts to be published  in the next few weeks)
2019 - 2020 (current): £600k forecast.
Mr J is asking Santander to give a term extension on the basis of his projections  about future 
income and investment performance. He says that his intention was to extend the term of 
the mortgage to 20 or 25 years.
I dont think it was fair of Santander to refuse the term extension on grounds of affordability.  
Mr J wasnt applying to make a change to his mortgage which was material to affordability, 
and so there was no need  under the rules   for Santander to carry out an affordability 
assessment.
However Santander also said there was little indication of how Mr J ultimately intended  to 
repay the interest only mortgage. The mortgage  offer had referred to an investment linked 
policy, and Santander  also needed  to understand why this wasnt  used to clear  the balance,  
and what Mr J proposed for the future intended repayment strategy.
Mr J provided  a projection from an investment manager forecasting  substantial growth from 
an initial investment  of £60,000  based  upon the 7% compound  interest rate rule. He said 
this presented a viable and coherent plan for the repayment strategy. Santander  wasnt 
persuaded by this.
As Ive set out above theres  no need  to assess  repayment strategy  for a variation made 
solely for the purposes of forbearance where  the customer has a payment shortfall,  or in 
order to avoid a payment  shortfall. But, in my view, it wouldnt be in Mr Js best interests to 
extend the term without considering that at all  since  the mortgage  will always  have to be 
repaid somehow.
In his complaint  Mr J doesnt  directly respond  to Santanders question  why the original 
repayment vehicle  wasnt used to clear the balance. I suspect the answer may lie largely in 
his statement that his investment portfolio was adversely affected by the 2008  banking crisis 
leaving him only about £100,000 in savings. But he evidently does wish this sum to remain  
invested by him instead of being  used to reduce the mortgage balance as intended.
I dont think Santander  acted unfairly by failing to share Mr Js confidence about  the 
investment projection.  Nor do I agree that there was clear evidence to support the 
projections of either income or investment  growth. 
It would have been unfair of Santander to refuse  to even consider the material sent on 
21 November 2017 or the investment managers projection. But Im not persuaded it did that. 
However it did nevertheless require  more information from Mr J about his individual  
Ref: DRN23427776circumstances, including  details about  his income  and outgoings. I dont consider that was 
unreasonable. 
Mr J is complaining about a lending decision based  on figures for 2014-2016 which he says 
are untypical. What stands out here is that we are now into 2020 and it must (or should) be 
the case that it is now possible to see whether Mr Js predictions of higher income in the 
years to follow, and sufficient investment growth to provide a repayment vehicle, are 
justified.
The investigator recorded that Santander  had told her Mr J could submit a fresh application 
giving updated  figures if he wished. If hed like to make  a new application, he could do this 
by contacting the interest only maturities team. Making an application based on the 
2017-2020 figures  instead of the 2014-2016  figures, when Mr Js high income level was 
temporarily sacrificed, seems to me to be an obvious course.
Mr Js evident desire  to be given credit  for his financial track record is understandable. But in 
relation to a repayment vehicle, his original  commitment  was to repay the mortgage from his 
investment. I suggest Mr J should pay the £100,000 off the mortgage instead of relying  on 
the possibility  that investing  that sum (or worse, only £60,000 of it) himself  will produce  a 
return sufficient to clear the £260,000 mortgage on expiry. That is what he and Santander  
signed up to, so Santanders  expectation to receive it after the ten years is legitimate.
This would reduce the borrowing to some  £160,000.  I suggest that if Mr J does that within 28 
days of my final decision, Santander  should  extend the mortgage term by five years from 
13 July 2017 to give Mr J the opportunity to demonstrate that the success of his business will 
enable him to repay the reduced  balance of £160,000 by the end of a total term of 20 years.  
Which with hindsight  is probably what he would have applied  for, and received, originally.
incorrect balance
The investigators considered Santanders proposal  was fair save  that Mr J should be 
allowed to decide  what he would like to do with the £250 rather than have it paid to the 
mortgage account. I agree with that point.
But if Mr J had been given  the lifetime tracker  in 2016 as he should have been,  hed have 
continued on that rate after the end of the term. So he ought to be paid the difference  
between the tracker rate and the SVR from when Santanders offer ended  to the date of final 
decision. But again used to reduce the mortgage  balance rather than paid directly to him.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision which  was dated 10 February  2020. 
Mr J accepted my decision by email dated 7 March 2020.
Santander responded by email dated  14 May 2020  saying  it had nothing  to add. 
However on the same day Mr J wrote a letter to us. He said: 
On 21 November 2017 I sent Santander  full documentary evidence  of my investment 
portfolio demonstrating  a valuation of £98,000. This was largely formed  of shares held in 
ISAs. As we are all aware, the past few weeks has seen the equity  markets  take a significant 
Ref: DRN23427777downturn on account of the Covid-19 crisis. This has understandably affected my portfolio 
valuation. I estimate that my portfolio has reduced  in value by c. 50%. Santander would  be 
aware of this (their  own share price has halved since  the lockdown was implemented).
Given this situation  it would not be possible to agree  to commit to a repayment of £100k  
within 28 days and it would be imprudent of me to sell shares during this time.  I would be 
selling at what is likely to be a trough  in equity prices and I would also lose all my tax-free  
ISA shelters.
In the light of these  unprecedented economic  circumstances I would like to propose that I am 
given further time to pay down a portion of the mortgage capital - the July 2022 review  point 
would be the preferred  route. This will give my portfolio time to recover  such that I should be 
able to pay the £100k and potentially significantly more. As soon as my mortgage is 
extended with the corresponding reduction in interest payments, I plan to start a new 
investment plan as suggested by my investment advisers.These plans were previously 
shared with Santander. I suspect that now would  be a good time to start these plans. Having 
all my existing ISA allowances  in place will help with that.
Had Santander responded  during the timeframe set out in your provisional decision  I would  
have been able to make this down payment i.e. prior to the Covid-19 impact.  However, given 
the significant delay, I am now facing an immediate financial demand just as the value of my
investments have been negatively impacted. I do hope that allowances  can be considered  in 
the light of these unprecedented  circumstances
I put this proposal  to Santander and it replied  that it would be willing to consider an 
application without  the £100,000 being paid,  on the basis  of Mr Js current  circumstances 
and financial  position, subject to his meeting its affordability criteria and lending  policy  at the 
time of application. This was also acceptable to Mr J.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties having now agreed  terms which are acceptable to both of them,  I now make my 
final decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and make  the following orders:
1.In respect of the application to extend  the mortgage term:
Santander UK Plc should consider an application by Mr J to extend the term of his 
mortgage by ten years  from 13 July 2017 on the basis of his current  circumstances and 
financial position, subject  to his meeting its affordability criteria and lending  policy  at the 
time of application.
2.In respect of the incorrect  balance:
a.Santander should make a payment  of £3,166.85  to the mortgage  account unless this 
has already been done;
Ref: DRN23427778b.Santander should also pay to the mortgage  account the difference between the 
tracker rate and the standard variable rate from 1 July 2017 to the date of this final 
decision;
c.Santander should also pay directly to Mr J £250  compensation  for the trouble and 
upset caused  by its error.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2342777