K822xComplaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco Bank), unfairly  dealt with a claim 
he made under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
In November 2013 Mr B was contacted  by a company, Ill refer to it as M, which supplied 
and installed  solar  panel systems. Following a subsequent sales meeting at his home, Mr B 
agreed to enter into a contract with M for it to supply and install a solar  panel system. He 
paid a deposit of £100 on his Tesco Bank  credit  card. The remaining cost of the solar  panels 
was paid with a 10 year fixed  sum loan agreement arranged by M. 
Mr B made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA, via his representative  to Tesco  
Bank. Mr B says that he was promised that the system would pay for itself, by way of the 
feed-in-tariff (FIT)  income, within 8 years. However, this hasnt  happened.  
In its final response letter,  Tesco Bank  said it didnt have enough information to decide if the 
benefits of the solar  panels had been misrepresented.  It said that it needs the following:
a clear copy of the contract and a clear  copy of the terms and conditions,
copies of the FIT payment statements from 23 January 2013 onwards,
a copy of the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) certificate;  and,
a copy of the kWh projection Mr B was given.
 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr B referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She was of the view that Tesco Bank had 
sufficient information  to give Mr B an answer to his s75 claim.  She was of the opinion that M 
had misrepresented the benefits of the solar panel system to Mr B. To put things right she 
recommended that Tesco  Bank work  out the potential  income  and savings to Mr B over a 10 
year term and ensure  that he didnt pay any more than this. She also recommended  that 
Tesco Bank pay Mr B £200 for the trouble  and upset caused. 
Mr B via his representative  replied  to say he accepted the investigators view of the 
complaint although he felt that Tesco Bank should calculate the benefits over 8 years.
Tesco Bank didnt  reply.
As no response was received from Tesco Bank the complaint  has been passed to me to 
review.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
Im required  to determine this complaint on the basis of what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
Ref: DRN29386452standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA, which provides protection  to 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by agreement, any claim against  the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr B paid for part of the agreement through his credit card, Tesco  Bank agrees that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr B could  claim against  Tesco  Bank  the 
creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach  of contract by the supplier in the same way he 
couldve claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken  s75 into account when deciding what  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case.
The FCA principles apply  to all authorised firms including  Tesco Bank. Of particular 
relevance to this complaint is:
Principle 6
A firm must pay due regard to the interest of its customers  and treat them fairly
For clarity,  the complaint that this service is dealing with is Tesco Banks  decision  not to 
uphold Mr Bs claim under s75 as it didnt believe it had sufficient information to do so. So, I 
have also considered whether Tesco Bank  treated Mr B fairly in dealing with the s75 claim. If 
I decide that Tesco Bank didnt deal with the claim fairly, I will then go on to consider the 
underlying s75 claim  for misrepresentation  of the benefits of the solar panel system.
Did Tesco Bank have  sufficient information?
Tesco Bank has said that it requires further  information before it can give Mr B an answer on 
his s75 claim. The information that it asked for is:
a clear copy of the contract and a clear  copy of the terms and conditions,
copies of the FIT payment statements from 23 January 2017 onwards,
a copy of the Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) certificate;  and,
a copy of the kWh projection Mr B was given.
It has said that without  this, it cannot determine  whether there  has been a misrepresentation. 
Ive also noted  that Tesco  Bank has also asked for confirmation that Mr B hasnt made a 
separate s75 claim against the loan provider.
When Mr B made his initial claim under s75 to Tesco  Bank, he said there were a number  of 
oral and written misrepresentations that induced  him in to entering the contract.  To support 
this position the representative provided  the order form from M which included the expected 
kWh to be generated  by the system and what this would mean  financially,  FIT statements for 
just under one year,  a copy of a The Renewable Energy Consumer Code non-compliance 
hearing regarding  M and some of Ms marketing materials.
Ref: DRN29386453Ive considered if Tesco Bank acted fairly  by asking for the further information it requested. 
Im not satisfied that it did.
The documentation  that was provided with the initial claim included the initial order  form from 
M. This set out the expected returns that Mr B could expect to receive  from his solar panel 
system in kWh. The form then went on to show what this would mean  in earnings for Mr B as 
a first year return. 
Taking the above into account I dont think that Tesco Bank needed to be provided  with a 
copy of Mr Bs MCS certificate to determine whether a misrepresentation had been  made  
that induced him to enter into the contract. This is because the MCS certificate wouldve 
been provided after the solar panel  system had been installed and therefore after he had 
entered into the contract. 
Im also not persuaded that the other information  Tesco Bank asked for was essential for it 
to determine if there had been a misrepresentation. Whilst I accept, they may have  been  
useful Im of the view that they wouldnt have been  sufficient when weighed  against the 
additional evidence  that had been provided  with the initial claim. 
Tesco Bank has also explained that it needed  to know  whether  a duplicate s75 claim had 
been made against the loan provider. This was because it wanted to ensure that Mr B 
wouldnt be compensated by the loan provider as well as itself if it found that the benefits  of 
the solar panels  had been misrepresented. 
Whilst I understand that Tesco  Bank  may have wanted to see a duplicate claim hadnt been 
made prior to paying any form of compensation, if applicable, I dont think that this 
information was necessary  for Tesco Bank to decide if the underlying  s75 claim for 
misrepresentation was valid. 
Although Tesco Bank  may not have  had all the information it would have  liked,  including  
whether a duplicate  s75 claim had been  made, Im satisfied that it had enough to provide Mr 
B an answer  to his s75 claim. 
Was there a misrepresentation?
When Mr B initially made his claim under s75 he said that he was told that the solar panel  
system would pay for itself in 8 years. And it was this misrepresentation that induced him to 
enter into the contract.
Instead, Mr B has said that the benefits from the solar panel system werent sufficient to 
recover the cost of the panels in 8 years and he subsequently decided to settle any 
outstanding balance early.
Mr B has been consistent with his recollection of what  he was told and subject to considering 
the other information  he was given at the time I have  no reason to doubt his evidence.
Ive reviewed and considered the marketing literature that was supplied  by Mr Bs 
representative when  the claim was initially made. This said:
We are currently  in your neighbourhood  installing SELF FUNDING Solar  PV Systems
How Does Self Funding Work?
Ref: DRN29386454The Feed in Tariff is a simple scheme which means  when the Sun shines,  the Government 
pay you for producing  electricity!
In combination, finance companies are offering loans for the systems which  can be serviced 
in full by the subsidies  meaning you are never out of pocket!
Save the environment and make thousands of pounds!
NEVER SPEND A PENNY
SUBSIDIES COVER THE FULL COST
SAVE 50% ON YOUR ENERGY BILLS
GUARANTEED 20 YEAR INDEX LINKED TAX FREE INCOME
The reference to the solar  panel  system as being  self funded , in my view,  suggests that the 
system will pay for itself. I also consider the use of the term never  spend  a penny means 
that any payments  Mr B would have had to make would have at least  been covered by any 
benefits he should have received from the solar panel system,  in effect meaning that he 
never spends a penny. I also havent  seen anything on the order form that would have 
contradicted these statements or should have made Mr B aware that they were untrue. 
Importantly, none  of these documents provide any evidence that would  undermine  what Mr 
B says he was told. Instead, it supports his version  of events.
Mr B paid £8,755  for his solar  panel  system and says that he was told by the sales 
representative that the FIT income would  be sufficient to mean that the system would pay for 
itself within  8 years. But based on the FIT statements Ive been provided  with it would take 
significantly longer  than this to pay for itself. Im of the view that it was the misrepresentation 
made by the sales representative for M that the solar panels would pay for themselves in 8 
years that induced Mr B to enter  into the contract.
Ive also taken account of the actions taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code  
(RECC) against M. My understanding is that the RECC  administers the renewable energy 
consumer Code and ensures that its members comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated Ms conduct.  In September 2014, and later in November 2015, it 
determined that M was in breach of a number of sections of the code including, but not 
limited to, sections 5.2 and 5.4. These two sections relate to essentially requiring members 
not to provide false or misleading information  to consumers and providing clear and accurate 
information about the costs and benefits of the product sold.
The representative has also provided  a statement from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) 
to the RECC about M in September 2015. CAB had carried out its own analysis of 292 cases  
where the consumer  had contacted it for advice about M.
Similar to the RECC findings  it raised a number of issues with Ms conduct  around 
misleading marketing  claims where consumers  were told the solar  panels were free or that 
the FIT payments would  comfortably  cover the loan repayments on their finance  deals.
Ref: DRN29386455Whilst I accept  that what happened  in respect  of the cases the RECC and CAB looked into 
may not have necessarily  happened in Mr Bs case, the findings do suggest  that there were 
conduct concerns  in the areas that relate to Mr Bs complaint at and around the time that he 
was sold his solar panel  system.
Taking all of the above into account, I consider that the benefits of the solar panel system  
were misrepresented  to Mr B, and it was these  misrepresentations that induced him to enter 
into the contract.
Fair compensation
I consider that there was a misrepresentation on the part of M and Mr B wouldnt have 
entered into the contract but for this misrepresentation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to require Tesco  Bank to arrange  for 
the removal of the solar  panels from Mr Bs home and refund all payments he has made  
minus any benefits he has received from the system. However, here I dont  think it would be 
fair or proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels  form his home. 
Mr B was led to believe that the solar panels would be self-financing and M arranged a fixed  
sum loan agreement over 10 years  to pay the remaining  balance  of the loan after he had 
paid the deposit with his credit card. As I understand,  Mr B has now settled the loan.
Mr B has said that he was told that the solar panel system would pay for itself in 8 years.  Im 
of the view that Mr B was led to believe that the solar panel system would pay for itself and 
be self-funding. And to fund the installation  of the system  he agreed to enter  into a 10 year 
fixed sum loan agreement. On that basis, I think the fair outcome is allow Mr B to keep the 
solar panels  and put him in a position  where the system is self-funding over the term of the 
fixed sum loan agreement i.e. 10 years. 
In its simplest terms this means Tesco Bank should  calculate the potential  savings and 
income to Mr B over the 10 year term of the loan. It should then ensure that Mr B has pays 
no more than this amount.  
Tesco Bank should use all the available FIT statements to calculate the amount of kWh that 
have been generated  by the solar panels. It should then use the FIT scheme from then to 
calculate the potential income and savings to Mr B. The panels were installed in November 
2013 and at that time the FIT scheme  paid a rate of 14.90p per kWh for the FIT and an 
Export tariff of 4.64p per kWh. 
To calculate any electricity savings  Tesco  Bank  should use a self-consumption  rate of 37% 
and a default electricity  price of 15p per kWh. For clarity, the self-consumption  rate is the 
amount of electricity generated  by the solar  panels  that Mr B is able to use or self-consume 
whilst he is in his home.  
The Government assumed a self-consumption rate of 50% and this is the percentage that is 
used by Mr Bs energy  provider. The Energy Savings Trust website  had previously set out a 
Ref: DRN29386456table that showed the potential savings under various scenarios depending on the 
consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage.
It is self-evident that determining an exact  figure  over the 10 year period of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair and 
reasonable in this case. Im of the opinion that it takes into account the evidence Ive 
discussed above and will also take into account changing consumer occupancy habits over 
the lifetime of the solar panel system. Once  the loan has been repaid, as it has in this case, 
Im satisfied that it is highly likely that Mr B will benefit from the solar panel system  as a 
result of a reduction in his electricity bills because of the electricity generated by the panels  
and the FIT payments.
Im satisfied a default electricity price of 15p per kWh is fair.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr B first 
contacted Tesco Bank that means  his claim shouldve been upheld.  The fact that this didnt 
happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset, and consequently Ill make  an award of 
£200 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
a.allow Mr B to keep the solar  panels,
b.estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr B from the panels  over the 10 year 
term of the loan. Where  possible  it should  use Mr Bs electricity bills and FIT 
statements to do this,
c.calculate how much  Mr B has paid towards the solar panels including  any deposit  
paid and all payments towards  the loan arranged by M,
d.it should minus the figure in b. from the figure in c. and pay Mr B any difference,
e.add 8% simple interest* to the figure  in d. from the date the payments were  made  to 
the date of settlement; and,
f.pay Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29386457*If Tesco Personal Finance PLC considers that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing  this, if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN2938645