K820x#14complaint
Miss D made a claim  under a pet insurance  policy she held with Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limited  when her dog was suspected of having a tumour on her liver. 
The claim was declined  as Red Sands  thought the condition had existed before the policy  
started and so it was excluded from cover.  Miss D disagrees with that conclusion  and wants 
the claim paid.
background
Miss D cancelled her existing pet insurance  policy for her dog and replaced it with the 
Red Sands  policy as of 2 July 2018. The policy excludes cover  for conditions that existed 
before the policy started.  It detailed the following under What is not covered? in the policy  
summary sent to Miss D:
Any claim or costs for or relating to a pre-existing  condition(s)  or for an accident, injury  or 
illness that first showed clinical signs at any time before the commencement date of the 
policy or within 14 days of the commencement  date.
The policy definitions describe a pre-existing condition as:
Any condition, symptom  or sign of a condition  occurring or existing in any form and at any 
time prior to the commencement  date; 
The veterinary notes  detailed  that the dog had gone  into a trance in May 2018.  Blood tests 
were done  the vet noted high levels of liver enzymes  and increased  bile acid levels.  It was 
noted there was the possibility of liver dysfunction, but it was thought this was unlikely to 
have caused seizures  (the trance). Further investigations  were  considered,  which included 
doing an ultrasound of the liver and a bile acid stimulation test (to assess liver function), but 
it was decided to monitor the situation  instead.
The notes from 10 October  2018 when the dog was taken in for her annual vaccinations 
recorded that she had been  sick that morning. It was then detailed that there  was discussion 
about repeating  the blood tests from May as the previous results had shown high bile acids  
etc. last time and could  be worth assessing progress. The new blood tests returned  high 
liver enzyme  levels. It was decided there was no liver failure  but possibly a bile duct 
problem. Subsequent scans identified a large mass  associated with the dogs liver which  
may have  been  causing reduced bile flow. 
A claim  was made to Red Sands. It declined the claim  on 31 October 2018 as it considered  
the condition Miss Ds dog had begun  prior to the inception of the policy. 
In response to the claim being declined, the treating vet said:
In my opinion it is unlikely the current  condition  could be related to the visit on 19/05/18. 
[name]s presenting  signs on the first visit were  largely neurological and she had had no 
further clinical signs of this nature since then. In fact she has been generally fit and well. The 
current investigations were initiated based on her vomiting and weight loss which  have been  
a more recent occurrence.
Red Sands  gave further detail of the reason  for it declining the claim. It highlighted the detail 
of the vet notes  from May 2018 and October  2018,  which had led it to the conclusion the 
Ref: DRN25314192liver tumour had existed  before the policy went into force and had shown clinical  signs  of 
existing. It remained satisfied with its conclusions and so Miss D referred  her complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld.  Miss D 
didnt accept the investigators opinion. She explained the first time there were symptoms  of 
the liver tumour was in October  2018 when she took her dog in for its annual vaccinations.  
She doesnt think the condition could reasonably have been identified  as pre-existing given 
the vets comments.  As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her conclusions, Miss D 
asked that the matter  be referred to an ombudsman  for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think in this case there is some confusion  regarding  the linking of the information  from 
May 2018 and that from some months later. I accept what the vet and Miss D have said 
about the symptoms  being treated in May 2018  and that those symptoms are unlikely to 
have been linked to those  the dog suffered in October 2018. However, the two sets of 
symptoms being  linked  isnt the reason Red Sands declined the claim.  
When investigating the cause of the earlier symptoms it was discovered  that the dog had 
elevated liver enzymes  and bile acid levels. Whilst these results  were not such that they 
were thought likely to have caused  the seizure the dog had suffered, they were  an indication  
the liver might not be functioning as it should.  Those  results  resulted in a discussion about 
the possibility  of scanning the liver  investigating  the cause of the test results. However, as 
the abnormal test results didnt appear  to have any symptoms linked to them at that time, it 
seems it was decided not to investigate further.
While the two sets of symptoms may not be linked,  I think it would be difficult to say the 
abnormal liver enzyme and bile acid test results in May 2018 were  not an early indication  of 
the dog having a problem  with its liver. Indeed,  the vet recorded  in October 2018 that given 
the May test results it could be worth assessing  progress , clearly indicating the vet 
considered the current symptoms were linked with the previous high enzyme  and bile acid 
results.
Although the problem  that caused the abnormal test results in May 2018  didnt  become 
symptomatic for some months,  I think the evidence is that it existed before the policy  was 
applied for. The policy doesnt just exclude  medical  conditions that are symptomatic and 
known about from cover. It also excludes  ones where there are clinical  signs of the problem 
and the abnormal  liver enzyme levels would be such a sign.   As such, I dont  consider  
Red Sands  acted unreasonably  when it declined the claim made  in October  2018  because it 
considered the condition  showed clinical signs before the policy  started.
Ref: DRN25314193my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 August 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2531419