K822xcomplaint
Ms G has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC unfairly imposed a condition of life cover 
on her when she took out a mortgage.  
background 
Ms G took out the mortgage  in question in 1996.  It was a condition  of the lending that she 
took out a suitable life insurance  policy  to cover the balance of the mortgage for its full term, 
which she did with a different business  (Ms G has also made a complaint about  that 
business, which has been dealt with separately). 
Our investigator didnt  feel that the complaint should  be upheld.  He explained that it had 
been common practice at that time for lenders to insist upon life cover  to protect a mortgage, 
regardless of the customers  personal circumstances. He said that we wouldnt consider it to 
have been unfair, provided the condition  was made  clear from the outset so the customer 
could make an informed  decision. 
The investigator noted what Ms G had said about her very secure  employment situation  and 
associated benefits   that they were such that the mortgage wouldve been protected in any 
event. But he explained that, aside from the cover being conditional  in any event, 
employment benefits are rarely taken into consideration  when arranging  mortgage cover, as 
they arent guaranteed  to remain  in place for the full, usually lengthy, term of a mortgage.
Ms G also highlighted that the life cover appeared to have been taken out for a significantly 
higher amount than the purchase price of the house  (seemingly  £40,500  cover  against a 
purchase price of £20,000). The investigator  explained that as there was very little 
information available about the mortgage (it was paid off in 1999) it wasnt possible to make 
any findings in this respect. 
Finally, he noted that Barclays  had offered  Ms G £100 as it had incorrectly told her initially  
that it wouldnt look into the complaint as it had been brought  too late. The investigator felt 
this was fair in the circumstances. 
Ms G responded to say that she felt that, despite the lack of information about the mortgage, 
there was enough  to reach a compromise based  upon it having been very unlikely that 
Barclays wouldve lent twice the purchase  price of the property. The investigator  didnt  
agree, and remained of the view that there was insufficient evidence  to reach a conclusion  
on this issue. He did seek further  information from Barclays, but it explained that as the 
mortgage had been paid off over 20 years ago nothing had been retained.  
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I recognise Ms G feels that imposing a condition of a life cover policy on her when she took 
out her mortgage,  given  her circumstances  single  and with no dependents   was unfair.  
Ref: DRN29462232But it was normal industry practice at the time. And as the condition was made  clear  to her at 
the outset, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Barclays did anything  wrong.  
If Ms G hadnt wanted to proceed on that basis, she couldve sought out an alternative 
lender. Although, that said, I think its unlikely that she wouldve found another lender in 1996 
who wouldnt  have also insisted on a suitable life cover policy  being  taken  out  as I say, it 
was standard  practice.
Ive noted the points  shes made about  comparisons  with PPI mis-selling,  but this isnt the 
same situation  its a different type of cover and theres no issue about  the policy possibly 
not paying out in the event of claim.
With respect to her point  about the apparent discrepancy between the level of life cover  she 
took out and the likely, much lower, mortgage balance,  I agree with the investigator that it 
would be very difficult to make a finding  on this point  without much more  detail about the 
mortgage. But in any event, if the cover  sold to Ms G wasnt  a suitable match for the 
mortgage that would be a matter for the business  that sold the cover, so a matter for the 
other complaint Ms G has made.  
Lastly, given that the cover was a condition of Barclays lending   so had to be purchased 
regardless   the issue of employment  benefits  becomes immaterial. But, as the investigator 
noted, even when lenders requirements later became less stringent and cover was 
recommended rather  than insisted upon, it remained normal practice  to not take work 
benefits into account because of the possibility that they might not remain in place for the 
whole mortgage  term. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint that the life cover 
was unfairly imposed. And I think the offer of £100  made by Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
specifically for the issue of incorrectly declining to consider the complaint is fair.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2946223