K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr A bought the policy in 2001  at the same time as taking out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mr A aware that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr As store card agreement. On this form there  
was an option  to add PPI to the account. Mr A has signed separately in this section to 
take PPI as well as signing the overall  form  so I think  this indicates what he wanted.  
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr A doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr As comments,  including what  hes said about his sick pay 
entitlement and being able to rely on family  and friends meaning  that he didnt need PPI. But 
the PPI would have paid out for longer  than Mr A received full sick pay and although Mr As 
friends and family may have wanted to help, circumstances can change and they may not 
have been in a position to help when needed. So these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN23469502my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2346950