K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about unclear information  from TSB Bank plc about whether it would apply 
an early repayment charge (ERC) when he re-mortgaged. This resulted in him paying the 
ERC. He says TSB took over 20 days to refund it. 
background
Mr B contacted TSB in November 2018. He wanted to apply for a further  advance  and a 
product switch. TSB couldnt offer this at the time due to IT problems. It said it would waive 
the ERC  if Mr B re-mortgaged elsewhere.  Mr B says TSB was unclear about the deadlines 
for this. His solicitor paid the ERC. Mr B says it took 20 days for TSB to refund the ERC. 
He says TSB paid £100 compensation without telling him what it was for.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said TSB had 
acted fairly  by extending the period during which it waived  the ERC and paying  £100 
compensation. Mr Bs solicitors sent the ERC,  despite TSB saying this was zero.  TSB 
refunded the ERC within a few days.  
Mr B didnt agree. He said £100 compensation isnt enough. He disputes  that TSB told his 
solicitor the ERC was zero.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what happened?
Mr B contacted TSB in November 2018 to request a further advance.  He also wanted to 
switch to a buy-to-let product. TSB was unable to offer further advances at this time. It 
suggested Mr B look elsewhere  and said that the ERC would be waived if he re-mortgaged 
within three months.
TSB confirmed the ERC waiver by letter,  including that it would apply until 4 February 2019. 
Mr B says he didnt receive  the letter.
Mr B visited  a branch  in February 2019. He was told, wrongly,  that the ERC waiver was still 
on his account.  He then found  out that it had ended and raised a complaint.
TSB responded to Mr Bs complaint by letter on 8 March  saying,  as a gesture of goodwill, it 
would extend  the ERC  waiver to 3 May 2019.  It paid £100  compensation for Mr Bs upset 
and costs, such as phone calls and parking. It said if Mr B had additional costs, including 
legal fees, he should let it know  and it would consider them. Mr B says he didnt receive this 
letter. He said he didnt  know  why TSB had credited his account  with £100.
TSB wrote to Mr B on 8 March 2019 confirming the ERC waiver was extended to 3 May 
2019. It also sent a redemption  statement to Mr B and his solicitors on 8 March 2019.  This 
said that the ERC was £0.00. 
Mr Bs mortgage was redeemed. TSB received funds from Mr Bs solicitor on 14 March  
2019. The amount sent by Mr Bs solicitors  included an amount of about £1,500  for the ERC. 
Ref: DRN28025732TSB returned the funds on 15 March 2019,  a Friday. The funds arrived  in Mr Bs account on 
21 March 2019   within five working days.
did TSB treat Mr B fairly?
TSB told Mr B when he first contacted  it that it couldnt offer a further advance at that time.  It 
offered to waive the ERC if he re-mortgaged elsewhere. TSB accepts that Mr B was given 
incorrect information in February 2019 about  whether  the waiver  still applied and extended 
the ERC  waiver for another two months. I think that was fair. 
Its unfortunate that Mr B didnt receive the letter sent by TSB in November 2018 and its final 
response letter in March 2019. The letters are correctly  addressed.  So I dont think this was 
due to an error by TSB. So while Mr B didnt know why £100 had credited his account, I 
dont think this was due to an error by TSB.
TSB sent redemption statements to Mr B and his solicitor showing the ERC was zero. TSB 
received the redemption funds, including about £1,500  for the ERC,  on 14 March. It returned 
the ERC  the next day. The money  reached  Mr B within five working days. I dont think TSB 
delayed returning  the money. 
I think TSB responded  fairly when  Mr B raised concerns. It offered to waive  the ERC if he re-
mortgaged elsewhere,  and extended  the period for Mr B to do this. It paid compensation of 
£100 and said it would  consider any expenses Mr B incurred as a result of it giving him 
incorrect information about when the ERC  waiver  ended. I think this is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find TSB Bank  plcs response to Mr Bs 
complaint is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2802573