K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out a loan with Santander in 2006. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy  
which wouldve covered  his loan repayments if he was off work  due to an accident  or 
sickness. It also provided life cover for the loan.
Mr H says that he was told there  was no insurance included with the loan. 
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Hs complaint  should  be upheld. Mr H disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Mr H took out the loan and PPI during a phone call with Santander. Theres  no record  of the 
call itself, which isnt surprising given  how much time has passed since  then.  But Santander 
has provided a copy  of the call script that was in use at the time. This script directs the 
adviser to make it clear  the PPI is optional  on more than one occasion.
In addition to this, Santander  has provided a copy of the loan agreement sent to Mr H after 
the call. On this theres a separate section after the main loan agreement which asks if Mr H 
wants to buy the optional  Standard Life, Accident  and Sickness  Capital Care  credit 
insurance. Mr H ticked  the box to say that he did want  it, and also ticked  another  box to 
confirm hed received  the policy summary. He signed this section, too.
So although  Mr H doesnt remember it, I think its clear  that Mr H bought the PPI knowing he 
had a choice about it. 
Santander didnt  provide  Mr H with a personal  recommendation about  the PPI, so it didnt 
need to check  that it was right for him  that was up to Mr H. But Santander did need to 
make sure Mr H had enough information about  the policy that he could make his own mind 
up about it. 
Its possible Mr H didnt get all the information  he ideally shouldve done.  But I think hed 
have understood  what  the policy was designed to do. And he knew the cost,  because it was 
clearly stated on the agreement he signed.  So I think  Mr H had enough information to decide 
whether his existing  means were sufficient if he couldnt work due to an accident or sickness.
Mr H wouldnt  have been affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more difficult  
for him to make a successful claim  such as those related  to existing medical  conditions,  so 
I dont think it wouldve mattered if Mr H wasnt told all the information about this. 
Ref: DRN23264372The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at around the 
same time. It was flexible,  because  it could be cancelled or amended at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I havent  seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr H.
So, even if Mr H didnt get all the information he needed I dont think  it would  have made a 
difference to his decision to buy the PPI. So I dont think Santander has to pay back  all of the 
PPI to Mr H.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because  Santander got a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  so it should 
have told Mr H about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business has to do
Santander should pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Santander should also pay 
Mr H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold, so Santander  Consumer (UK) Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc does have to pay back  to Mr H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2326437