K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC, Cheltenham  & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy at a meeting in 2001  at the same time as taking a mortgage. 
They increased cover at a meeting in 2007  when taking a further  advance. Cover was on 
Mr R for accident, sickness and unemployment,  subject to its exclusions  and limitations. 
The loan application papers show Mr R as the higher earner in 2001 and earning slightly 
more than Mrs R in 2007. He was employed  as a driver and had been with his employer 
three years in 2001 and with a different employer almost two years in 2007. From what  hes 
told us, Mr R was entitled  to less than 12 months full pay as sick pay. I think its likely  he 
was also entitled  to statutory redundancy pay in 2001. Mrs R was also employed on each 
occasion and has told us she was entitled  in 2001  to full sick pay and redundancy pay. 
Mr R has told us he had two weeks off work  with a health issue in 2007. He hasnt told us of 
any other health issues he had before the sale or the PPI increase. The questionnaire sent 
to us for Mr and Mrs R said they both had more than one job but Ive nothing else to suggest 
this. Weve asked  for but havent received more about this and about Mr Rs health in 2007.
For a successful claim, the policy would pay Mr and Mrs Rs monthly mortgage payment plus 
£3 for every £1000 of the initial mortgage  amount. In 2001 this was around £350 plus £213. 
It also paid the premiums for certain  associated insurances if those were taken with Lloyds. 
From what  Lloyds has sent, the PPI premium started in 2001 at around £36 a month. It 
increased in 2007 to around £83 when  the benefit increased to cover repayments on the 
2007 further advance plus certain  other  advances  taken  in earlier years.  From what  I have, 
the repayments on the advances covered by the PPI at that time amounted to around  £1100.  
A sum of £3 for every £1000 of the advance amounts was also payable, but the monthly 
benefit total was capped  at £1300,  so this extra sum wouldve been  limited to around £200.  
Around four premiums were paid after the increase  before the whole  policy was cancelled.
Lloyds has also sent us information  showing Mr and Mrs R took advances  in 2002 and 2006 
(covered by PPI after the increase) and in 2004  (which wasnt  covered). Mr and Mrs Rs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Their  representative  
says, in summary:
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Rs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
Ref: DRN21919622The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should  have told Mr and Mrs R 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Mr and Mrs R arranged a further  advance on their mortgage in 2006, after mortgage  lending 
became regulated in October 2004. This led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA 
regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
The sale took place  in 2001  before the sale of general insurance  products  like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to the sale;  
nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). But there were  a number of industry codes in 
existence at the time, which I am satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In particular, The General  Insurance 
Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN21919623The sale was made during  a period of industry self-regulation by the General  Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI.
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time of the sale. So Im satisfied  I should  take these industry 
codes into account  when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about the sale. 
It is relevant to note there is much in common between  these non-statutory  provisions and 
the statutory regulatory regime that was in place at the time of the PPI increase (and indeed  
the position at law). So, although they no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider the non-statutory provisions represent  a helpful guide  to good 
industry practice and, as a result, its appropriate  for me to take them  into account for the 
increase too, along with the other  relevant considerations.
The increase  in 2007 took place after the sale of general insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005   so the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to the increase. 
For the sale there was also the Mortgage Code  which was a voluntary code followed by 
subscribing lenders  and mortgage intermediaries.  While predominantly about mortgage 
related matters, it also included some  insurance related commitments. The increase took 
place after the sale of mortgage  products became regulated by the FSA, so the mortgage  
conduct of business rules  (MCOB) are applicable to that. As with the sale of general 
insurance, there is much in common between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  for the sale Im also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
Ref: DRN21919624case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place before, and the increase after, insurance mediation became a 
regulated activity, so when considering  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint, Lloyds was required,  for 
the increase, to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 and to take these provisions 
into account as if they were guidance when considering the sale.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable  care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Rs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  Mr and Mrs R havent said this wasnt  
made clear. Also, their 2001 mortgage  application form had boxes to tick to say the PPI was 
wanted or to say it wasnt wanted and that the consequences of not having unemployment, 
sickness or accident cover for the mortgage  costs had been explained. So the form 
presented the PPI as something  Mr and Mrs R had the option to apply for or turn down.
On Mr and Mrs Rs form, the box to take the cover was ticked - and I think they wouldve 
known the box to turn down the cover shouldve been ticked instead if they didnt want  cover.
Also, separate from their mortgage application  form, Mr and Mrs R signed a separate PPI 
proposal form. The PPI form indicated they wanted  Mr R insured for 100%  of their mortgage 
costs  and had a space  to write  in the amount of the borrowing being covered. Entered into 
this box was the amount of their mortgage loan. They  signed  a similar separate  form for the 
cover increase in 2007, on which the sum of the advances  being covered was entered (that 
Ref: DRN21919625is the original mortgage  amount plus advances in 2002,  2006 and 2007). Also,  they signed a 
separate direct debit  for the PPI on both occasions.  So, it looks like the PPI was presented 
each time as something separate from the mortgage and as carrying  a separate cost.
Also, Ive not seen anything from the sales to suggest Mr and Mrs R had to take the PPI or 
had to sign the proposal forms  to apply for it if they didnt want  it  and Mr and Mrs R havent 
said anything to make me think they were pressured  into opting for the PPI at the start or at 
the time of the increase. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely Mr and Mrs R 
knew the PPI was optional and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds and Mr and Mrs R agree advice was provided when  the PPI was sold. This means  
Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  at the sales, the documentary evidence  suggests 
Lloyds took some steps to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs R. Lloyds had information about  some of Mr and Mrs Rs financial circumstances 
as part of their mortgage  and subsequent further  advance applications  for example the 
2001 and 2007 loan forms recorded  their salaries  and employment start dates.
Also, the PPI application form Mr and Mrs R signed in 2007 had questions  to establish Mr R 
didnt hold other PPI policies,  wasnt  in seasonal or fixed term employment, wasnt aware  of 
impending unemployment and, from his answers,  hadnt suffered from any problems with his 
health, whether  diagnosed or not.
But I dont think Lloyds  did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs R and to 
establish they had a need for it. For example,  Ive nothing  to show  that Lloyds asked about 
Mr Rs work  sickness  or redundancy benefits. Also, while the declaration  on the 2001  PPI 
application form asked  that Mr and Mrs R confirm they were working at least  16 hours a 
week, werent aware of any impending unemployment or hospitalisation and werent 
receiving ongoing  medical treatment for persistent or recurring  conditions,  I cant  see that 
Lloyds established  that all these points applied before giving them  the application to sign.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the PPI. It seems  likely theyd suffer a significant drop in 
income if Mr R wasnt working for an extended period - in that situation the policy benefit 
wouldve helped them manage  the consequences. Also, it seems possible their finances 
wouldve been put under strain in 2001 without the PPI benefit, bearing  in mind Mr R was 
the higher earner  and Mr and Mrs R have said they were financially stretched at the time.  
Ref: DRN21919626-Mr R met the eligibility criteria  for the PPI. 
-The exclusions and limitations related  to employment didnt make the PPI unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs R - nothing  about  Mr Rs employment  wouldve  made  it difficult  for them to 
claim.
-The health exclusions and limitations  didnt make the PPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr R didnt have health issues  in 2001, so he wasnt affected by exclusions for existing 
conditions. After  the increase, Mr and Mrs R couldnt have claimed for disability if Mr R 
suffered it due to his 2007 health issue (if this first happened  before the increase) if the 
issue occurred or re-occurred in the following 24 months. But, having  taken into account 
all theyve told us about this, Im not persuaded the exclusion meant the cover  wouldnt 
have still been  useful for Mr and Mrs R, given what  the policy still covered. So Im not 
persuaded this made Lloyds recommendation unsuitable. I say this before  taking  into 
account that the form Mr and Mrs R signed for the increase was ticked to say Mr R had 
not suffered  from any health problems, which only tends to reinforce my view above. 
Also, there were no extra  restrictions  on cover for mental health or back problems.
-Although Mr and Mrs R have said they were  financially stretched, Ive seen nothing else 
to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the PPI (including that no benefit  was payable 
for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment, the PPI would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim and for disability  Mr R had to be unable to do his 
own job and unable  to do any similar job he might reasonably  become  qualified for in 
view of his training, education and ability). But the PPI still provided valuable cover  given:
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, including Mrs Rs income and Mr Rs work  benefits 
(which they mightve expected to give an income  during  the policys  60-day 
qualification period),  the limits to Mr Rs work  benefits and the significant  loss of 
income Mr and Mrs R could  suffer  if Mr R lost his job or was too sick to work for an 
extended time (and the impact  this might have on Mr and Mrs Rs ability to meet  
mortgage related  costs).
The PPI helped protect payments relating to the mortgage on Mr and Mrs Rs home, 
so I also bear in mind  the potential consequences should  they have become unable 
to pay the loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their mortgage  payments if Mr R were  
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have taken 
the PPI without any sense of what  it was for and of how much it might cost.
Ref: DRN21919627But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take the PPI. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Rs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs R about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Lloyds  ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Lloyds didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs R. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would still have taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently  or whether they would have taken  the 
Ref: DRN21919628policy in any event. Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt have taken it and believe I should  
presume this to be the case  given the significant  failings identified  above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs R had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean,  when Lloyds  advised them there  was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if Mr R were unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
It doesnt appear Lloyds  told Mr and Mrs R the exact  premium  when they applied.  But I think 
they knew they would have to pay something for it (and I bear in mind the direct debits they 
signed for it). Also, I consider it unlikely Mr and Mrs R wouldve agreed to the PPI without 
having an idea of the approximate cost each time.
Also, if when  they first came to pay for it the cost had been  significantly at odds with what  
they expected when  they agreed to it, Mr and Mrs R mightve raised this with Lloyds at that 
time or reconsidered  their decision. Instead they paid it for a number of years   later taking 
increased cover as outlined above.  Also, in relation to the increase, Ive considered the cost, 
the potential benefit and the fact the cover was to help protect a mortgage.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure each  time they agreed  to the PPI.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs R would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely their expectations 
about what it would pay (enough to meet their mortgage payment) were  significantly different 
to what the policy actually did. If anything, its likely  it wouldve actually paid more  initially 
than they wouldve expected, due to the additional benefit that was payable.  The increase 
was taken to cover  all but one of the advances  but from what  Ive seen the additional benefit  
payable meant the policy  benefit  wouldve covered  what was due on that advance too.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims for disability if due to a pre-existing health issue (a health 
issue Mr R knew  or ought to have known about  at the policy  start date or had seen or 
arranged to see a doctor  for in the 12 months before the policy  start date) occurring or 
re-occurring during the first 24 months of cover;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr R wasnt  
a permanent employee;
Ref: DRN21919629The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr R not only be unable  to do 
his own job but also be unable to do any similar job the insurer thought  he was or might  
reasonably become  qualified for in view of his training, education  and ability;
No benefit  was payable for the first 60 days of disability or unemployment;  and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months per claim, rather than the remaining  
term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from taking it. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr R was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs R should the insured  risks have become a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr R wouldve  been caught by any of the significant exclusions  at the 
start  he didnt have  any health issues and was in permanent employment. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr Rs 2007 health  issue  pre-existed the policy increase, Mr and Mrs R couldnt  claim for 
disability if Mr R suffered it due to this health  issue, except in certain limited circumstances. 
But, taking  into account all Mr and Mrs R have told us about  this health issue and given  all 
the other things the policy would still cover, what I have isnt enough to persuade me that 
knowing about this exclusion  wouldve  changed  Mr and Mrs Rs decision about the increase.
In the light of all Ive said above,  I think Mr and Mrs R still had some good reasons to take 
the cover.
If Mr and Mrs R had known they could only claim for disability if Mr R were unable to do his 
own job and unable to do any similar job the insurer thought he was or might reasonably 
become qualified for in view of his training, education and ability, it might  have  played  into 
their thinking  about what  to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  
although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned given  that if Mr R were 
unable (through  disability) to do his own job, the chances he would be able to take up a 
similar job would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs R the first 60 days of any disability or unemployment 
Mr R suffered wouldnt be covered   and may not have told them  any claim would be limited  
to 12 months. All this may have  differed  from what they expected  and mightve hoped for. 
But given the loss of income  they were  likely  to suffer if Mr R couldnt  work for an extended  
period, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R wouldve still thought  PPI that after 60 days  paid 
their mortgage for up to 12 months, would be of benefit and help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr R couldnt work  in the circumstances the policy covered. The policy 
allowed for multiple claims to be made and could help reduce Mr and Mrs Rs outgoings and 
Ref: DRN219196210help make it less likely their home  would  be placed  at risk at what  could  be a difficult  time if 
Mr R were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs R would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr R were  made  redundant, or unable to work through  
accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not they wouldve 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs R think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
Ref: DRN219196211to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  and 2007 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2191962