K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  has Halifax (BoS), mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs L bought  the policy  in 2001  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Mrs Ls 
recollection is that she applied for the mortgage and PPI policy over the phone. But BoS has 
been able to tell us the sale took place  in branch and from what  it has been able to give us, I 
think this is most what happened. 
The policy Mrs L took was part of a package called Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan 
(TMPP). It consisted of three  parts  Mortgage Repayments Cover  (the PPI), critical illness 
and life cover. In this decision Ive only considered Mrs Ls complaint about the PPI element 
of the policy.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs L for accident, sickness, and unemployment   subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £317.58  a month towards  Mrs Ls mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £18.95  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs L was employed  as a secretary. She has told us she was not entitled to any 
sick pay if she was too unwell to work. Mrs L told us she had savings of up to three months  
worth of her salary  she could  have  relied  upon  to make her mortgage repayments in the 
event she wasnt working. Mrs L told us of three medical conditions  she suffered from in 
1999 and for which she had taken  a week off from work.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2003. 
Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ls representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ls 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs L and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN29819742The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN29819743The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ls 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN29819744-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs L sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs L and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs L know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. Mrs L has said it was included  as 
part of the mortgage package. 
BoS has been able to give us very little of Mrs Ls actual paperwork  from the time of the sale.  
But I dont find this surprising because of the length of time since the sale and the mortgage 
being redeemed.  But BoS has provided  us with examples of the paperwork it says Mrs L 
would have seen  when she took out the policy. And these show that a customer  would  
reasonably have understood they had a choice about the PPI, and they would have had to 
agree to take it out. 
And BoS has been able to give us part of the mortgage application itself and I see there is a 
separate section  entitled Total Mortgage  protection Plan (TMPP)  which is followed by brief 
description of the policy covered. There is nothing in this section  that said Mrs L had to have 
the policy and I see that Mrs L has signed and dated  this section in order  to take the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs L knew the policy  was optional 
and she agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.  
did BoS provide advice?
BoS has told us it did provide  advice. Mrs L hasnt said either way whether advice was 
given. As I think it most likely this sale took place at a face-to-face meeting with an adviser, I 
think its likely BoSs representative did give advice. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs L with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs L. It seems Mrs L cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  had some limited information  about Mrs Ls 
Ref: DRN29819745financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to 
establish whether  Mrs L would  have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs L given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Mrs Ls ability  to continue  to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs L was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the savings she says she 
had.
-Mrs L had a need for the policy  Mrs L would  not have received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness, her redundancy benefits are likely to be limited 
and she had limited  savings she could fall back on. The policy would have  helped  
Mrs L manage the consequences  if Mrs L was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs L.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs L. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And the policy didnt exclude claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions such as the ones Mrs L has told us about. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs L be disabled or unemployed for 30 
days before she could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 
24 months for each  claim, it still provided  valuable cover given: Mrs Ls 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to her 
home  for which Mrs L was solely responsible   and the potential  consequences 
should Mrs L be unable to make the repayments on loans  secured against  her 
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs L sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs L would have taken  out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
Ref: DRN29819746But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs L agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs L, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs L all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should  have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs L? To what extent did Mrs L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs L. So, I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mrs L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs L, I have found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs L has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Ref: DRN29819747Mrs L would  have acted  differently,  or whether she would have taken out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs L says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs L had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ls circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs L knew  she would  have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told her the exact premium at the point Mrs L applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mrs L would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for two years, so if the costs  were significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
BoS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs L would have found the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mrs L would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ls expectations  about  
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs L thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs L be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN29819748I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs L from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Mrs L was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mrs L wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs L was in permanent 
employment and the policy didnt exclude  pre-existing medical  conditions.  So, I still think she 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs L 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs L, in her circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs L had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs L was unable  (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mrs L that any claim she made  would be limited to a 24-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
had limited other means to fall back on and her statutory  redundancy entitlement was also 
significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs L would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs L be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Mrs L was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN29819749That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs L would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs L 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs L in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs L compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs L thinks  BoS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs L and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN298197410my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2981974