K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr P had his car insurance with AXA for a number of years. His policy  was due to renew in
June 2018. In April 2018, Mr P was involved in an accident with another  vehicle. The
accident was the other  drivers fault so Mr P directly claimed against the other drivers
insurer. I understand that claim was settled to Mr Ps satisfaction.
Mr P disclosed the accident to AXA before his renewal. AXA recorded the incident as a non-
fault claim. When quoting  the June 2018  renewal premium, AXA charged  Mr P more
because of the non-fault claim.
Mr P didnt think that was fair because he didnt claim on his own policy  and the matter was
settled by the other insurer. Mr P decided to not renew with AXA and get cover elsewhere.
He got a quote with another insurer for around  £585. But he said he wasnt  able to take that
policy because the quote was on the basis that he didnt have a non-fault claim. I understand
that although he didnt agree with AXA that he had a non-fault claim, as AXA said he did he
didnt want to misrepresent his position  until he resolved the matter  with AXA. Mr P then took
out another policy after declaring that he did have  a non-fault claim and he paid a premium
of £742.56.
Mr P complained to AXA. AXA accepted they shouldnt  have recorded the accident as a non-
fault claim,  but as notification  only. They said they would  correct the records.  AXA also said
that as a result of their error, the renewal premium  they offered Mr P was wrongly  calculated
higher. AXA offered Mr P £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience he
experienced.
Mr P didnt think AXA had dealt with his complaint fairly. He felt they should refund him the
difference between  AXAs  renewal premium  and the £585  he would have paid the other
insurer if he didnt have  to declare  the non-fault claim  that AXA had wrongly  recorded.  He
brought his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint.  He
felt he couldnt  ask AXA to do anything more.  As Mr P didnt agree with our adjudicator, the
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 June 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
AXA have accepted they made an error in the way they recorded  the accident  Mr P 
was involved in. They also accepted that mistake led to his renewal premium being 
higher than it should have. Mr P decided to leave AXA for that reason.
From the evidence Ive seen, Mr P was able to find a cheaper policy  at £585, but he 
wasnt able to take that up because  he didnt want to misrepresent  his position, 
namely that he didnt  have a non-fault claim on his record, even though  he believed 
that to be wrong.  He therefore declared he had a non-fault  claim against  him and 
took out a policy for £742.56.  So if AXA hadnt  made  the error, I think Mr P would  
Ref: DRN21449262have taken the cheaper policy that was available to him at £585. But instead he paid 
£157.56 more  for the policy he took out.
AXA have said that there was insufficient evidence to show that the renewal policy  
they offered  Mr P and the policy he was quoted  at £585 by another  insurer  were  
identical. But Mr P has told us the details were the same and I see no reason to 
doubt him. Mr P was unable to take out the cheaper policy  because  of an erroneous 
entry AXA had made against his record. He should  therefore be given the benefit of 
the doubt.
I therefore intend to uphold  this complaint. I intend to require AXA to pay Mr P 
£157.56, which is the extra amount he paid but could have avoided had AXA not 
made the error they did. Simple interest at 8% a year should  be added  to that from 
the date Mr P made payment until he is refunded.  This matter has also been  a 
source of distress and inconvenience for Mr P, so I intend to require  AXA to pay him 
£150 compensation to address that.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr P accepted  my provisional findings.  
AXA didnt comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr P £157.56  together  with simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
he paid it until the refund is made.1
Pay Mr P £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him. This 
should be paid within 28 days  of us telling them that Mr P has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.  
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If AXA consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr P how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN2144926