K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that she was mis-sold a unit-linked reviewable whole of life policy  by Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
She says she wasnt aware that the premium  could increase and it wasnt  something that 
she agreed to.    
background
In 1993, Mrs E was advised to take out a reviewable  whole  of life policy with £24,000 sum 
assured for an initial premium of £25 a month. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that although there had been some administrative 
errors with the policy, the initial advice was suitable,  and that Mrs E now needed  to increase 
her monthly premium to maintain the sum assured  or reduce her sum assured in order to 
maintain the premium. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
short, he said:
Although Mrs E says she expected the premiums to remain  the same throughout the 
life of the policy, she was provided with documentation that made  reasonably clear 
that this policy was reviewable, and therefore  the premium and sum assured werent  
guaranteed to stay the same. 
In September  1998, Mrs E was sent the first review letter,  and thereafter  every five 
years, in accordance review dates.   
The September 2003 review letter made  clear  that Mrs Es policy  had been reviewed 
and that £25 a month premium would continue  to support £24,000  sum assured. It 
also made clear that the next review  was due in 2008. 
Although Lloyds is unable to provide a copy of the actual letters it sent,  it has 
provided a copy of the distribution  note which it held on file. 
Despite the above letters, Lloyds accepts  that it didnt inform Mrs E when she needed 
to increase her premiums in order to maintain the sum assured, so offered to pay 
£429.47 into the policy, instead of asking her to make these missed payments. 
Moving forward Lloyds has done nothing wrong by asking Mrs E to increase  the 
premium (to maintain the sum assured) or reduce the sum assured and pay the 
same premium.     
Mrs E disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  
She maintains she hasnt  received any of the review  letters since the policy started  except 
for the letter dated October 2018  when the whole  issue  came to light. She has since chosen 
to reduce her sum assured but says if she knew the policy  was reviewable she wouldnt 
have taken it out. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29001952Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mrs E has said Im not satisfied 
that the reviewable whole  of life policy was mis-sold. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise her strength of feeling  about this matter.  
Mrs E has provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  she wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs E and Lloyds,  and reach what  I think  is an independent,  fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mrs E is complaining about is known as a 
reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, but is instead designed 
to pay out on death  whenever  it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. Thats why  initially  Mrs E only paid 
£25 a month for £24,000 worth  of cover.  
I appreciate that plan illustrations or projections  can only give an indication of what the cost 
of premiums are likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of (or increased 
cost of) the premiums. 
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. I note in this instance 
75% went into the Options Manged  Fund  and 25% into the Options Equity Fund.  The cost of 
the cover  however isnt fixed and actually increases with age. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age. In this case  the hope 
is that the investment element will grow enough  to fund the shortfall  when the policy  reaches 
the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium being paid. Whilst 
projections can be made, there are no guarantees, and may explain the rise after the recent  
review. 
Thats why at the point of sale Mrs E wouldve been given the yearly growth fund figures 
which determined whether (or not) the premiums  she paid could maintain the level of cover 
or whether shed  need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover.  
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  This is why I think its more likely than not Mrs E will have been told 
Ref: DRN29001953about the planned reviews. But at each review, the insurer also needs to make new 
assumptions about the cost of cover and investment performance in the future.  
Thats why its not always possible to predict  future premium increases with any degree  of 
accuracy. But not being able to predict future  premiums doesnt  mean  the policy  was mis-
sold. So whilst the cost of premiums might not have increased until recently,  there was no 
guarantee that they wouldnt increase, or continue to increase thereafter. 
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholder  will be offered the choice of either paying a higher  
premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. And this is whats likely to have happened  with Mrs Es policy  although Lloyds 
accepts it didnt notify her of the premium increase she needed to pay in order to maintain 
her level of cover. Ill refer back to this point in due course below. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mrs E said she was (and wasnt) told about the policy  when it 
was arranged. But having considered everything  she and Lloyds have said,  I dont think her 
comments alone are enough for me to say the policy  was mis-sold. I must take into account 
the explanatory  literature  that Lloyds says she was given when the policy  started. 
I note the product brochure that Mrs E was likely to have been  provided makes clear that the 
policy was reviewable.  Under section 23 regarding  policy reviews,  it explains that the first 
automatic review would  be on the fifth anniversary of the policy  and every five years 
thereafter, until she reaches the age of 70.
In my opinion this made reasonably clear  that the policy was subject to reviews  and the level 
of cover or premium wasnt  guaranteed, but subject  to the outcome of these reviews, in line 
with how these policies  generally operate. I acknowledge this was clearly contrary to any 
belief held by Mrs E about a fixed rate premium. 
I appreciate Mrs W says she didnt receive  any of the review letters  except the 2018 letter 
 I think its possible that she might not have and may explain why she didnt complain 
earlier. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable  to say that the letters  
werent sent by Lloyds,  in which case I cant hold it responsible for her not receiving the 
letters.  
However I note that Lloyds now accepts that it hadnt made  clear  to Mrs E that she needed 
to increase her premiums  in order to maintain her sum assured. As a gesture of good will 
Lloyds has agreed  to top-up her policy with the sum of £429.47,  as if shed been paying the 
increased premiums, rather than ask her for the missed increased payments which I think is 
fair and reasonable, as Lloyds was responsible  for this error. 
On balance, Im satisfied the policy allowed  Lloyds  to do what  it was doing  and that it didnt 
mislead Mrs E about how it would  work.  In other  words, on balance  Im satisfied that she 
was made  aware  that the policy was reviewable  and that the premiums were likely  to 
increase to maintain the level of cover she wanted.  
 
In the circumstances Im unable to say the recommendation  was wrong or unsuitable, just 
because the premiums were likely to increase in order to maintain the sum assured. 
Ref: DRN29001954In other  words Im unable to say Lloyds  has done anything wrong by asking  Mrs E to 
consider increasing  the monthly premiums  to £31.43 in order  to maintain the sum assured, 
or maintain the same premium but reduce the sum assured to £19,000. Im mindful that 
shes now reduced her level of cover. 
I note Mrs E says she wouldnt have taken a reviewable whole of life policy  if she was told 
about the increasing premiums.  Whilst non-reviewable  whole  of life policies were likely  to be 
available, they were also likely to be significantly more expensive  from the outset.  I think its 
unlikely Mrs E would  have chosen a non-reviewable whole of life policy  instead.    
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs E in light of the possible future unaffordable premium  
increases. But that said, she still has the option to reduce  the sum assured and pay the 
same premium (as she has done) or increase the premium in order  to maintain the same  
sum assured.  
I appreciate Mrs E will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  Lloyds to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs E 
what she wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2900195