K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr W payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2005.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr W says he was led to believe the PPI was part of the mortgage and he didnt realise it 
wasnt compulsory. This did all happen about  14 years ago, and it would be very difficult to 
know exactly how the PPI was presented during any discussions  its possible memories 
about details will have  faded, and without supporting evidence  (which I realise would be very 
difficult for Mr W to get) it wouldnt be fair for me to decide the bank adviser acted wrongly in 
this way. And I do think the way the PPI was presented in the documents suggested it was a 
choice. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr W, and this means it had a higher standard  to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ws 
particular circumstances.  But it looks to me as though  a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws situation at the time. I say this because its 
likely Mr W was eligible  for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits at the same  time as Mr W 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. It looks as though he didnt have  savings at the 
time  and even  if he had, the PPI would  have put off the time when hed need  to fall back  
on those, or any other means he may have had for paying the mortgage and other living 
costs. This all would  have put Mr W in a more secure position,  if hed eventually  lost income 
due to long term sickness or unemployment.  And Ive not been  told anything  to suggest he 
couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially  
useful, and so a recommendation was suitable.
The monthly price of the policy  was shown. So I think Mr W would have understood how 
much it would cost. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr W would have been affected by any of these. And hed be paying for it 
monthly, so he could cancel it at any time without further cost if his situation changed.
Ref: DRN24059432my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2405943