K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank Plc (Barclays) mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card during a meeting in a branch.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case. 
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr B that he had a choice in taking out the PPI and that it 
had his consent to add it to his account. 
Barclays has provided a copy of his application  form.  The form has been pre-filled in with 
some of Mr Bs details  such  as his address, date of birth and employment details. There 
has also been some  options which have been  pre-populated by an x  such as what  other 
types of cards Mr B held and what type of bank account he had. The section for PPI has two 
boxes  one to confirm an applicant wants the policy, another to decline.  On Mr Bs form 
neither of these  boxes  has been clearly marked. Our adjudicator upheld the complaint on 
this point  saying we didnt have  evidence that Mr B had opted to take out PPI.
Barclays has provided a lot of detail as to why it thinks the application  form does show an x 
and Ive thought carefully  about everything its said. Especially around  how the form would 
have printed out and the other samples  Barclays  has provided to show what it wouldve 
looked like had Mr B opted  to not take the policy. But looking at the copy of Mr Bs 
application, it is not clear  that an option  has been selected. I can also see amendments have 
been made by hand to another section  where  the pre-populated option  appears to have 
been amended  and a handwritten tick  marked in its place. So it would seem likely that if  
Mr B had wanted to take the policy, he couldve also ticked  to select  the option  he wanted 
as he has done  to amend the other part of the application. 
So, having  taken everything into consideration, Ive not seen  enough evidence  that clearly  
indicates he actively chose to include the policy. For this reason Im upholding Mr Bs 
complaint.
Ref: DRN27739062fair compensation
Barclays should put Mr B in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays should  find out how much Mr B wouldve  owed when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr B owed when  he closed his 
account and what  he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.Barclays should  add simple interest  on the difference between what  Mr B wouldve 
owed from when he closed  his account  until he gets the refund. The interest rate should 
be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  Barclays works out what Mr B wouldve owed each  month without PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, Barclays  should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr B 
wouldve owed Barclays something on his credit card.  The interest rate should  be 15% a 
year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.Barclays should  tell Mr B what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Barclays  to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr B compensation in line with the instructions set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2773906