K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains Tradewise Insurance Company Limited poorly handled  a claim on his 
commercial motor insurance policy.
background
Mr K owns  a vehicle repair garage. In February  2019 he accidentally  damaged  one of his 
customers vehicles. He claimed for the damage  on his Tradewise  motor  trade road risks 
policy. Tradewises repairer collected  the vehicle. It was stripped down for inspection. Then 
Tradewise said the incident wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr K complains Tradewise shouldnt have allowed the vehicle to be dismantled   it should 
have realised sooner  that the claim wasnt covered. He feels  the repairer caused significant  
additional damage when stripping. 
Tradewise tried to return the vehicle to Mr K, but he refused to accept  it. He said Tradewise 
needed to return  it in the condition it left his garage or pay him the costs of the additional 
repairs. The repairer  charged storage fees. Mr K wants Tradewise to pay those. Hes been 
paying alternative transport costs  to the vehicle  owners. Mr K says Tradewise should 
reimburse him that cost too.
Mr K complained. Tradewise said its decision to refuse the claim was correct. It feels  it didnt 
do anything wrong  by stripping before its liability had been established. Its said there was 
nothing to show its repairer had caused additional damage.  It felt there  was no point putting 
the vehicle back  together  using the damaged  parts. It said if an independent engineer felt its 
repairer had caused additional damage it would cover the relevant costs.
After seeing a report from an engineer our Investigator  recommended Tradewise cover the 
cost of some damage  a total of £169.50. He also said it should  pay Mr K £50 
compensation. He didnt  agree Tradewise  should  cover the travel costs of Mr Ks customer 
or the storage fees. Tradewise accepted  the assessment but Mr K didnt.  So the complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K seems  to have accepted that the claim wasnt payable. He hasnt asked us to consider 
the decision to refuse  it. So I havent  done that in this decision.
Theres very little to support Mr Ks position  that Tradewises repairer caused significant 
additional damage during the strip. The report from an independent  engineer says the 
repairer wasnt responsible for anything significant.  It says parts can become damaged 
during a strip. The engineer did suggest  a possible cash settlement  of £169.50 - to cover a 
few hours labour and minor damaged  parts. Tradewise has agreed to pay that. That seems 
fair, so it should do so. Considering that, and other information provided, I cant  say 
Tradewises repairer  did cause significant  additional damage to the vehicle. 
There does seem to have been a communication issue  at the start of the claim  between  
Tradewise and the repairer. Perhaps  the vehicle shouldnt  have  been  stripped by the 
Ref: DRN24570942repairer. The reason  for the refusal of the claim,  the locations of the incident,  was provided 
by Mr K when he initially  reported  the incident.  But in any event I cant  see that the mistake  
caused a financial  loss to him. The strip was required  for repair  regardless  of the outcome of 
the claim.  And Tradewise very quickly offered  to cover the cost of transporting  the vehicle 
and its parts back to Mr Ks garage. 
Unfortunately Mr K refused that offer for some  time.  He felt extra damage had been done to 
the vehicle. Ive already said that what Ive seen doesnt really  support that. There  was 
perhaps some minor unnecessary damage. But not enough for him to reasonably  refuse to 
accept the return  of the vehicle to his own garage. That means I cant say Tradewise should 
cover any resulting storage fees charged to Mr K by the repairer. It also means I dont agree 
that it needs to reimburse him the car owners travel  expenses  for the same reason. 
A lot of the inconvenience experienced by Mr K resulted from him not taking the vehicle 
back. I cant fairly require  Tradewise to compensate him for that. But in the circumstances of 
the claim,  it would have  been preferable for Tradewise to have realised earlier  that the claim 
wasnt payable. Not doing so has caused  Mr K some unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. The Investigator  suggested £50 compensation to recognise  this. That seems  
fair to me. So Tradewise  should pay that.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited needs to pay Mr K 
£169.50 plus £50.00 compensation*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
*Tradewise should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ks accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this 
it should add interest  at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date it makes 
payment. 
 
Ref: DRN2457094