K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms E took out a packaged bank account  with National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) in June  2010 and they say it was mis-sold.
background
Mr and Ms E took out a joint fee free account  with NatWest in October  1998.
They then upgraded to an Advantage  Gold  account (AGA) in January 2001  for which  they 
paid a monthly fee.
Mr and Ms E downgraded  to a Current Plus account  in November 2008 which didnt  have a 
fee.
They then upgraded to an Advantage  Gold  account (AGA) with a monthly  fee again in June 
2010. 
Mr and Ms E complained about  the AGA sold to them in January 2001.  Nat West upheld that 
complaint and returned all the fees theyd paid with interest up to November 2008  in line with 
this services approach  to redress.
Mr and Ms E say the AGA they took out in June 2010 was also mis-sold. Nat West says it 
wasnt mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NatWest mis-sold the AGA  in June 2010. But Mr and Ms E 
disagree so the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Ms Es complaint.
For clarity this decision is only about  the sale of the AGA in June 2010,  as NatWest has 
upheld the complaint about the January  2001sale and paid redress to Mr and Ms E in line 
with this services approach.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr and Ms E knew  they had a choice whether to take out 
the AGA in June  2010, and whether they chose  to do so. I think they did and Ill explain why.
Mr and Ms E had used  a fee free bank account and a packaged bank account with NatWest 
at different  times before  they took out their AGA. So at the time of the sale,  I think its more  
likely than not that they were aware  that there were a range  of fee free bank accounts and 
various packaged bank accounts  available from both NatWest and other banks and financial 
institutions. 
So in my view Mr and Ms E knew they had a choice whether to pay a fee for the AGA or not 
and they chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN20241512NatWest says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
AGA to Mr and Ms E personally or advise them to take it out. Mr and Ms E say that NatWest  
did advise them to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr and Ms Es needs and circumstances or suitability checks to show  me 
clearly that NatWest did make a personal recommendation to them. I accept its possible that 
in providing information to Mr and Ms E and explaining the benefits of the AGA, NatWest may 
have said or implied  that it was good  idea to take out the AGA. But this isnt the same as 
giving a personal recommendation. And based  on this services  knowledge  of NatWests sales  
practices at the time, I think its more likely than not that NatWest  sold the AGA to Mr and Ms 
E on an information only basis. 
This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the AGA  was suitable for Mr and Ms E, but it 
did have to provide  Mr and Ms E with good enough information about the AGA so they could 
make an informed decision about whether to have it or not.
And I think it did. I say this for the following reasons.
The AGA  benefits  in June 2010  included worldwide family travel  insurance, mobile  phone  
insurance, car breakdown service, extended warranty cover,  purchase protection;  better 
interest rates for overdrafts, loans,  and mortgages,  discounts on home insurance and a 
range of other offers. The initial cost was £12.95 per month.
I think its likely NatWest wouldve described  the AGA to Mr and Ms E at some length as it was 
trying to sell the account to them. I think the AGA would have been of interest  to Mr and Ms E 
as they had a car and mobile phones and travelled regularly. They subsequently registered 
their mobile phones,  made a successful  claim on the travel insurance and used the car 
breakdown service. 
And I can see nothing in Mr and Ms Es personal circumstances that would have stopped  them 
using the AGAs benefits; it was for them to decide what  they wanted to use.
So, in my view Mr and Ms E knew they had a choice about taking out the AGA  in June 2010 
and they chose to take it out. And I dont think there is anything  NatWest didnt tell them that 
would have changed their mind  and put them off taking out the AGA.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Ms Es complaint about the sale of the 
Advantage Gold Account in 2010.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2024151