K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC made an error setting up a direct debit 
following his balance transfer on his credit card account. Mr A also complained  about  the 
customer service  he received from Tesco when he was trying to sort this out.
background
Mr A took out a Tesco credit card and set up a direct debit for his monthly  payments.  
Unfortunately, due to a Tesco error the payments  were not taken and Mr A was charged a 
late payment fee and lost his interest  free balance. 
Mr A contacted Tesco and it agreed that it had made an error and it would refund the £12 
late payment fee and reinstate the interest  free period.  It also said that it would refund any 
interest that might be added to the account. Mr A was offered £50 compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience, but he was unhappy with the amount because  he said that it 
didnt reflect the amount  of distress and inconvenience, he had been caused, in particular 
the call had taken  an hour of his time already. Tesco then escalated  the complaint  to the 
customer complaints team, but they were not available on Sunday.
Mr A then had several calls with the customer service team over a period of two or three  
days. He was very unhappy with the service he received from most  of the staff he spoke to. 
In one of the calls Mr A made some comments that caused Tesco  to become concerned  for 
Mr As welfare. Tesco called the emergency services, who attended at Mr As house. 
Because this upset  his family  Mr A says he was no longer able to stay at home. He says that 
Tesco misinterpreted his comments  about how stressed he was and should not have called 
the emergency services.  Mr A was also concerned that Tesco staff could conduct fraud on 
his account. He also mentioned that he was concerned about  the effect the missed payment 
would have on his credit file. 
Tesco investigated the complaint and offered Mr A £150 in compensation for the customer  
service it had provided, it didnt return Mr As call when it said it would and he didnt  speak to 
a manager when he asked to.
Mr A was not happy with this and he complained to our service. Our investigator thought that 
Tesco had put things right quickly when it realised  the error  and put him back in the position, 
he would  have been in had the error  not happened. She thought  that Tesco should have 
handled some  of the calls better.  But she thought that the £150  offered in compensation was 
a fair and reasonable amount in the circumstances.
Mr A disagreed with this view and the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see by the evidence that Tesco was prompt in accepting that it had made an error. It 
agreed to put it right and cover the late payment fee and it reinstated  the interest free period 
on his card. Tesco also said it would monitor Mr As account for two months to make sure 
Ref: DRN25966622that it corrected any issues that arose out of its error. It also confirmed that Mr As credit  file 
isnt affected. Because of this I dont  think that Tesco  needs  to do more.
In respect of the balance transfer  fee I agree with the investigator that the balance transfer 
fee did not need to be refunded  as this was the fee for setting up the balance transfer, which  
had been done. I dont  think that Tesco did anything wrong in taking this fee and not 
refunding it after the direct  debit errors.
I have listened  to a call where  Mr A said some things that might worry an adviser and would 
require them to consider the customers welfare. Tesco  does have a duty of care and it acted 
on that duty when it called the emergency services  to Mr As house.  I dont  think  Tesco  did 
anything wrong  as it had a serious  concern. I know that Mr A and his family were caused  a 
lot of stress  as a result of the emergency  services  attending. And there were unforeseen 
consequences for Mr A because of them attending  at his house. But I dont think Tesco can 
be held responsible for these consequences.
Mr A made around 20 calls to Tesco during a three day period. I have listened to all these 
calls between Mr A and Tesco. I agree with the investigator that Tesco  could have handled 
some of these calls better 
Tesco said that as Mr A had not accepted the offer of compensation from the customer  
service team  the complaint had to be escalated to the complaints team. Mr A was offered to 
speak to a manager on several occasions,  but the managers did not have authority to 
resolve the complaint and in any event  the complaint had been escalated  to a different 
department. 
Mr A asked to speak to a managers  manager but Tesco didnt do this for him and this 
caused Mr A further stress and caused him to have to complain. Tesco has acknowledged 
the service failures.  I think that Tesco could have at least called him back when it said it 
would and perhaps ideally it could have  provided him with one person to speak to about his 
complaint.
I have considered the impact on Mr A. The error in the direct debit caused Mr A to be 
stressed about money. He was worried about what would  happen  to his account. But I know 
that he was told within a couple  of days that Tesco agreed it was their error  and it would 
refund late fees and interest and put him in a position he would have been if the error hadnt 
happened. 
But Mr A was very stressed  with the calls he made to Tesco and as mentioned above they 
were not handled  as well as they should have  been. 
In an ideal world, Tesco  could have provided  Mr A with one person as his point  of contact in 
the customer service team. This might  have made Mr A less stressed and worried and he 
might not have had to spend so much  time on the phone to Tesco.  Having said that, I think 
the offer of £150 made  by Tesco for the failures in its service and the distress  and 
inconvenience he went through is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because Mr A was told quickly that Tesco would put things right. But I acknowledge  that the 
calls with Tesco were not handled as well as they could have been  and Tesco  did not call 
him back when it said it would.
Ref: DRN25966623my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint.
I am aware  that Tesco  Personal Finance PLC has made an offer to pay £150. I conclude  
that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that Tesco 
Personal Finance  PLC should pay Mr A £150  in compensation for the failures in its service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2596662