K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Capital One (Europe) plc have  not made the reasonable adjustments he 
requested to his monthly statements and that they are sending him the statements in formats 
he cannot read and that causes him distress.
background 
Mr S has credit  card accounts with Capital One.
He experiences visual impairment and dyslexia that he can manage by having  written 
communications sent to him in a larger font size than standard, in a particular colour text, on 
a specific colour paper.
Mr S asked Capital One to make those adjustments to their correspondence with him, 
including his monthly account statements. Mr S made several requests to Capital One for 
them to send his statements  in a format he could read and understand. For several months 
after his request, Mr S says Capital One continued  to send him statements in the wrong 
format, including  what he described as blank sheets  of paper.
When Mr S complained to Capital  One, they said in their final response  letter  that they 
partially upheld  his complaint and offered him some compensation. 
Mr S complained to us as Capital One have not made  the adjustments  he asked for. He says 
theyve added to his distress by continually not sending his statements in the agreed format 
and by also sending  braille statements that he has never requested.
In late 2018, an investigator looked at the evidence and arguments of the complaint and 
thought that Capital One should  make  the adjustments to large font on coloured paper, and 
they should stop sending  braille statements to Mr S. She also considered compensation for 
distress and inconvenience of £350 should  be paid by Capital One. But since  Capital One 
agreed with that view,  and paid the £350  compensation, the statements have not been sent 
to Mr S in the agreed format and he continues  to receive braille  statements,  and on different 
days from the larger font statements. This has added  to his distress.  
In mid-2019, the investigator again asked Capital  One to make the agreed adjustments,  and 
pay a further sum of £250 for the additional distress and inconvenience  caused since they 
agreed to the adjustments requested in her first assessment of Mr S s complaint. But they 
now dont think the coloured paper is a reasonable request.  And they havent explained what 
prevents them from using coloured paper  with the requested font size. They  also cant  
explain why Mr S continues to receive  braille  statements,  and they feel the compensation 
they have paid Mr S so far is enough.
Mr S agrees  with the investigators views  of late 2018  and mid-2019,  but Capital One now do 
not agree  with all parts  of those views. For that reason, the matter has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigators views and 
for broadly the same reasons. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN29089352I am mindful  that Mr S has asked Capital  One to make adjustments  to their written  
correspondence to him for over a year.  And that Capital  One dont dispute  that some  
adjustments are appropriate in Mr Ss circumstances. Its apparent  from the compensation 
payment they paid to Mr S following the investigators first assessment of the matter that 
they recognise the distress theyd caused up to the point that payment was made. 
But Capital One have still not made the adjustments  they agreed  to make following the 
investigators first assessment of the matter. He is still not receiving statements in font size 
26. He is still not receiving  them  on yellow paper, and he is still receiving additional  monthly 
mailings in braille.  
Ive thought about whether the adjustments that Mr S is asking for are reasonable. 
I considered one of Capital  Ones  proposed alternative adjustments of an audio  statement. 
Mr S rejected that method  as he would need  to consider the content of the statement more  
than once, which would make it impractical for him. He also thinks the information will be 
difficult to remember. I agree that the complex  financial  information on a credit card 
statement is not best delivered to Mr S this way, with the impact on him that he describes. 
font size
I have considered the view of the Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) on the 
matter of font size. They  refer to giant print as a font size of point  24, and that size is the 
size of most  giant  print books. I think their expertise is significant, and is a sound  basis for 
any decision  about whether such a size font is reasonable for a financial services  business 
to provide. I think it is, and I think Mr Ss request for point 26 is so close  to the RNIB 
reference to point 24 that Capital One should  consider it a service they should provide  when  
asked. The UK Association for Accessible Formats  (UKAAF), a registered charity, says on 
their website point 24will meet many peoples needs, although some will need larger 
text than this. Again, Mr S has requested point 26 and this is reasonable, supported by this 
view about font size for written correspondence  from an accessibility charity.    
paper colour
Ref: DRN29089353I have considered Mr Ss request for his statements, and any other correspondence, to be 
sent on light yellow paper.  Capital One, after saying theyd send Mr Ss correspondence on 
yellow paper  from late 2018,  have since taken  a business decision to not offer that 
adjustment. Theyve said that the number of requests  they get from their customers  for 
yellow paper  is so small that it is not something  they offer, or plan to offer. They  offered  Mr S 
a yellow  overlay acetate sheet  instead. In some  cases, that might be a reasonable 
adjustment. But Mr S has said that the overlay sheet could cause blurring of the text and 
further anxiety  for him, and so in his individual circumstances it wouldnt be right to say the 
overlay is appropriate.
 
The use of coloured  paper  is recognised  by the British Dyslexia Association  as a useful aid 
for readers.  And the UKAAF says using a paper colour with a coloured tint of 10% to 
15%, such as pale yellow, can help reduce paper glare which some people  find 
uncomfortable. Mr S says hes arranged  the required  combination of size of text, the colour 
of text and the colour of paper from other companies  he has contact with. Taking  all of this 
into account, I think its a reasonable adjustment for Mr S to have Capital One send him 
correspondence on light yellow paper.
braille correspondence
I have also considered the matter of braille sheets still being sent to Mr S. Capital One say 
their supplier has stopped  sending them to Mr S. And I have thought about why Capital One 
say they cant be sure its their mail to Mr S that is arriving as blank  or braille  sheets of 
paper. When Mr S sent them examples  of what hed received, they arrived  with Capital One 
but they lost them. This means  Capital  One could have got to the bottom  of where  the blank 
or braille  documents  were  coming  from, but they let Mr S down by losing his evidence. I can 
understand why Mr S felt further distress.
I have thought about which company is most likely to be sending them. Mr S has made 
successful arrangements with other companies for their correspondence  with him. And on 
balance I think its unlikely  to be any of those companies sending him braille documents. I 
also think that its unlikely  to be an unidentified company sending  braille  documents to him. 
He has not told us that he is not receiving expected monthly documents  from another  
company. I think its likely then that Capital  One are sending Mr S braille  statements as they 
were previously. I am aware  they have arranged with their supplier to stop sending braille 
statements, but those  arrangements  are failing. I will be directing Capital One to stop 
sending braille  correspondence immediately. 
distress and inconvenience
The distress  and inconvenience Capital Ones actions have caused  Mr S has continued after 
they paid him £350 compensation late last year. I must consider to what  extent  Mr S has 
been affected since. Mr S would have reasonably expected Capital One to make the 
adjustments they said they would in 2018. This gave him hope  that the whole matter was 
resolved, only for Capital  One to continue  to correspond with him without  making the agreed 
adjustments. I agree with the investigator that £250 reflects  this additional period of distress 
and inconvenience  that Mr S has suffered.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated,  I uphold this complaint and direct Capital One (Europe) plc to carry 
out the detailed requirements, which for clarity are:
Ref: DRN290893541)immediately cease  sending Mr S braille statements
2)no later than the second  monthly  statement issued from the date of this settlement, 
adjust the font size on monthly account statements  to point 26, in black print, on light 
yellow paper
3)ensure all other correspondence to Mr S is in the style of 2)
4)pay Mr S £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience, in addition to the £350 
it has already paid
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Adrian Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2908935