K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, will not refund some  disputed 
transactions.
background
Towards the end of July 2017, Mr M complained to Halifax about 11 online transactions  made 
from his account. They  totalled nearly £8000.  He said he hadnt made these transactions  and 
neither had he authorised them.  He wanted  Halifax to refund this money  to him.
Halifax looked into his complaint but made a decision  not to uphold it. In its final response 
dated 3rd August 2017, it confirmed that a new card had been sent to Mr M and that he had 
confirmed that post was posted into a locked box which no one had access to.  Halifax  also 
told Mr M that it had originally blocked  some of these transactions because they appeared 
unusual  and it had sent a text message to Mr Ms phone to tell him.
Halifax then received a call back from the landline  registered on Mr Ms account and had 
spoken to a male  who had confirmed he was Mr M, had passed the security questions  posed 
and had confirmed  that he had made the transactions.   Halifax believed  this person on the 
phone was Mr M.
But Mr M disagreed with the outcome.   He said he had never received the card which  had 
been sent.  He  also said that he was away from home at the time of the call and had not 
spoken to Halifax.
When Mr M brought his complaint to this service, our adjudicator did not think  she could 
uphold it either.  The  matter was then allocated  to me in order to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  what  
happened, I have based my decision on what I consider most likely to have happened  in the 
light of the evidence.
Based on what I have seen, I think it is more  likely  that Mr M either made  or authorised  these 
transactions.  I say that for the following reasons:
-the card used  for the purchases (along with a new PIN) was sent to Mr Ms registered 
address.  Mr  M says he received the PIN but not the card  but I think its more likely 
than not that both were received;
-the genuine card was subsequently used  for the purchases;
-when the initial transactions were attempted, they were blocked by Halifax  and a text 
message sent to Mr M.  Halifax received a call back  from the landline  number registered  
to Mr M.  This  means the person who called Halifax back would have needed to have 
had possession  of Mr Ms mobile  (to receive the text messages) and would  have to have 
been in Mr Ms home in order to use his landline.  I think  to suggest that this may be a 
fraudster is not credible;
Ref: DRN25537172-the person who Halifax spoke  to in order to authorise the transaction  had detailed 
knowledge of Mr Ms financial affairs  not just with this account  but other accounts also 
and was able to answer  questions which only Mr M would know the answer to;
-the evidence Mr M has provided  to show he was not at home  on that particular  day is 
from a hotel  which is a relatively easy commute from Mr Ms home address;
-I have listened to the call which authorised the transaction as well as the call from the 
fraud department declining  Mr Ms claim.   I think that on both occasions, Halifax  is 
talking to Mr M;
-after a number  of the first transactions, Mr M logged onto his online banking and Halifax 
say, would have  seen some of these transactions as pending  however did not report 
them as disputed  until all transactions had been completed;
-and whilst I place  less weight on this final point, the spending  pattern is not typical of a 
fraudsters use of an account i.e transactions were made  over a period of days  rather 
than full use of the card in quick succession.
In terms of the calls which  both I and the adjudicator have listened to - these  have been  sent 
to Mr M who is assessing his complaint alongside his lawyer.   I can see that no further 
submissions have been received from him since he received  the call recordings.
I think a further step which Halifax could have  taken was to contact the merchants involved 
in the disputed transactions and to enquire  where the items ordered had been  delivered to. 
Ive thought about whether it was unreasonable for Halifax not to have done this  and 
whether the information received might have changed the outcome here.  I dont think it 
would because the evidence which I have relied  upon above is enough to conclude  that 
Mr M either made or authorised these transactions.  I dont think  I would be persuaded to 
uphold this complaint if I were told that the goods  were delivered to an unknown address.
So, whilst I know  Mr M disputes the transactions, based on everything I have seen and 
heard, I do not think Halifax  has dealt with his complaint in an unfair or unreasonable way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2553717