K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he was financing through an agreement with Blue Motor  Finance 
Ltd (BMF) has not been of satisfactory  quality. 
background
Mr M took receipt of a used car in August 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMF. At the point of supply the car had already completed a little 
over 77,000 miles and was six years old.
Mr M says he had problems with the car only a month after taking  receipt of it. The cars 
restricted performance indicator illuminated and not too long afterwards the handbrake 
failed. He took it to a garage specialising in his model of car. 
They said the cross over pipe had been  the cause of the performance limitation. They noted 
that the handbrake needed to be repaired;  the rear brake lines were corroded and the front 
brakes calliper needed replacing. So Mr M complained to BMF and asked them to pay for 
the repairs.
BMF didnt agree to fund these. They said that as Mr M had completed  7,000 miles in the car 
it was most likely the faults were due to wear  and tear and not there when he took receipt of 
the vehicle: the point  at which they said they were responsible for its quality.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator spoke to the garage who had 
carried out the repairs and they told him the cross  over pipe fault should have been looked 
into before  the car was sold  and that the handbrake issue  would have been pending for 
months. They also explained that the corrosion would have been going on for a while. So he 
was persuaded  that there were faults with the car when it was supplied  to Mr M and he 
therefore suggested BMF should refund the repair cost.
But BMF disagreed. They said the car had passed its MOT in August and the brakes  would 
therefore have  been okay at that point and they also noted the mileage Mr M had been able 
to completed in the car. They thought it was most likely the faults had been related to wear 
and tear and they asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint BMF so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN22898582Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it. 
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr M. The car here 
was around six years  old and had travelled  77,000 miles. So Id expect some wear  and tear 
to be showing but I would  not think a reasonable person would expect the brakes  not to work 
properly, or the cars performance to be affected  by a fault.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask BMF to put this right.  
Mr M reported faults with his car within the first few months and the relevant legislation  
would therefore  encourage us to assume  the faults were there from the onset; unless BMF  
are able to show differently. 
Here, the garage  Mr M took his car to, have explained that the handbrake and cross  over 
pipe faults were likely to be there at the point  of supply. Theyve also suggested the brake  
problems were developing at that point  too and Im persuaded  thats  likely to have been the 
case and that the MOT would not necessarily have picked up the fact this was a developing 
issue. I think the MOT  should also have picked up the fault with the handbrake: it didnt and 
the specialist garage  has suggested it should  have. I think  the garages views are persuasive 
here as they are specialists and BMF  havent explained how a faulty  handbrake could have 
been missed at the MOT. 
The relevant  legislation  gives a business one opportunity to repair faults  that are present at 
the point of supply. So I think it was BMFs  responsibility to repair  the car. I think it was 
reasonable for him not to return the car to the supplying dealership as they are a 
considerable distance from his home.  BMF  should  therefore refund the repair costs that hes 
incurred.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to 
refund the repair costs  that Mr M incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2289858