K820x#14Complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to pay a cheque. 
Background
Mr K wrote a cheque for £4,800 on 31 March 2019  and listed himself as the beneficiary. 
Mr K paid the cheque  to his ISA provider but Barclays later declined  it and said the signature 
didnt match its records. 
Mr K says hes now lost out on interest  and the tax benefits from 2019. 
Mr K complained but Barclays  didnt agree it had made a mistake. Barclays said it had 
genuine concerns that the signature  on the cheque  didnt match its records. Barclays says it 
tried to call Mr K but wasnt able to get through. Barclays didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  
He thought Barclays had dealt with Mr Ks fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr K 
says hes not persuaded Barclays tried to call him to talk about the cheque and didnt accept 
the investigators view.  As a result, his complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K is upset. He signed a cheque and gave it to his ISA provider 
expecting the funds to be paid in time for the end of the tax year.  Ive looked at the 
signatures involved and I can see they appear similar. But, I havent been persuaded to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint  him but I havent found  anything to show  
Barclays made a mistake or treated him unfairly. 
I appreciate the signatures appear similar  and Mr K clearly  feels theyre identical. But 
Barclays has provided details of the differences  it picked  up and its entitled to review a 
customers instructions before deciding whether to fulfil them.  In this case, Barclays has 
pointed to a number of differences that caused it concern. Im satisfied Barclays  had a 
genuine concern over the authenticity of the cheque which is why it was stopped. 
I wont quote the full terms here as the investigator has already  done  that. But Barclays  
terms say it wont follow  a customers instruction (including paying a cheque) if it isnt clear 
the instruction  came  from the account holder or if its concerned about unauthorised access. 
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied Barclays had legitimate concerns so its decision not to pay 
the cheque was reasonable and in line with the account terms. 
Ive looked at Barclays contact records. Mr K says he has no record  of receiving either call to 
his mobile phone or a call to his landline. I know Mr K isnt persuaded that Barclays  called 
him. But Barclays records are clear in showing that it tried to call his mobile number  ending  
5005 but the calls didnt  connect. Barclays records also show it tried to call Mr Ks landline  
number but there was no answer. Whilst I note Mr Ks concerns, Im satisfied Barclays tried 
to call him to discuss the cheque as it claims.  
Ref: DRN26775092Mr K has questioned whether there  was any risk in releasing the funds as the cheque  in 
question was made out to him. I take Mr Ks point,  but there are there are sophisticated 
fraudsters at work and Im satisfied Barclays was acting in good faith to protect  the account. 
And Barclays is free to decide what measures it puts in place to protect its customers. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but I havent found anything to show  Barclays  made a mistake.  
Barclays account terms allow it to disregard a customers  instructions if its concerns about 
account access and security and thats  the step it took here. Im satisfied that the evidence 
shows Barclays tried to call Mr K as it claims but wasnt able to speak  with him. As Im 
satisfied Barclays has dealt with Mr Ks complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2677509