K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  her payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies with some loans. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B brought this complaint on behalf  of herself  and the late Mr C. The complaint was 
about PPI sold with six loans, one of the loans being  a joint loan for both Mrs B and Mr C, 
the rest being  taken out solely by Mrs B. 
Lloyds agreed  to uphold complaints about four of the PPI policies and loans, the joint loan 
being one of these. But for two loans, Loan  1 reference ending  5894 and Loan 2 reference  
ending 7031, Lloyds said that the PPI taken out by Mrs B for these two loans was not mis-
sold. As Lloyds has settled the mis-sale  complaints with the four later loans, I am not 
considering them in this decision. In this decision I am focussing on the two loans Mrs B took 
out in her sole name and the PPI policies she took out with those loans and I shall 
throughout refer only to Mrs B.
Mrs B bought the PPI with Loan 1 in April 1996  and the PPI with Loan 2 was taken out in 
January 1997.  Both PPI policies were  taken out at the same  time as the loans. Mrs B applied 
for both of the loans and PPI policies  in branch. 
Each policies one-off upfront premium of was paid in advance by being added to the loan (a 
single premium) where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. Due to the time since 
the sales took place the premium amounts are not on record,  but the loan amounts  are and 
Lloyds has been  able to calculate the likely amount of the PPI premium for each loan. For 
Loan 1 the premium is indicated as £153.44  and for Loan 2 this is £230.16. Both loans were 
repayable over 24-month terms. Each  policy term matched  that of the loan with which  it was 
taken out. 
The monthly loan repayment for Loan 1 was estimated as £46.72 for the total monthly 
repayment including the PPI. For Loan 2 this monthly  payment  would  have been  £70.08.  
The policies both provided cover for Mrs B for accident, sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to the exclusions and limitations.  Both policies offered to repay  Mrs Bs monthly loan 
repayment for the remaining  term in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 months 
in the event of unemployment. 
At the time of taking  out both policies, Mrs B was employed as a Receptionist. She has told 
us she was entitled to up to six months  sick pay and also redundancy pay from her 
employer. Mrs B has indicated she had some medical conditions a few years  before taking 
out the policies, but it seems she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that both loan accounts  closed in January 1998.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.  I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
Ref: DRN20349982handling PPI complaints  under DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out either of the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mrs B about the poor value;
 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  In particular, Mrs B said that the size of the commission charged would 
have put her off taking  out the policies and if the exclusions and restrictions  had been fully 
explained she would not have taken  out the policies.
.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint
The sales  of both policies  took place in 1996  and 1997 before the General  Insurance  
Standards Council (GISC) published its code of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of 
general insurance products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, 
the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct  rules 
(ICOB and ICOBs)  arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance 
(PERG). 
Ref: DRN20349983The credit agreements themselves both concluded in 1998.  That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:

Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN20349984If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether Lloyds gave Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out each of the policies, 
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policies  and significant limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional. 
Lloyds does not have the actual application forms completed by Mrs B for her loans and the 
PPI. But is has provided a sample  of the form that was in use at the time. This indicates  
there was a section  on the form where  Mrs B had to indicate she wanted to take out a PPI 
policy and she also had to sign separately  in this section. Some of the costs information 
about the PPI was also set out on the application  form and the PPI is described  as optional. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs B knew the policies  were  
optional and she agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs B agree that advice was provided during these sales.
 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policies were appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether each of the policies were suitable 
recommendations for Mrs B. Mrs B hasnt  indicated in full what  was said at the meetings and 
as such a long time ago is unlikely to remember clearly what  happened and there is no 
record of what the adviser  discussed in relation to each of the policies. This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs B would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policies did not fully meet her needs.  For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs B had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Ref: DRN20349985Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policies were  
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that each of the policies were ultimately 
suitable for her. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for each policy.
Mrs B had a need for the policies  it seems likely that Mrs Bs ability  to continue  to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and sick pay 
benefits she says she would have been  entitled to.
The monthly cost of the policies appears to have been affordable for Mrs B.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policies unsuitable for Mrs B. There  
was nothing about Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs B has told us 
about having bronchitis some 22 years before the first sale and a cold around four 
years before  the first sale. There is no evidence that the bronchitis recurred again 
before the sale of either policy, so it would  be unlikely  this would have been 
perceived by Mrs B as the main reason she could have  made a claim and it may not 
have been caught  by the restrictions on either  policy. A cold would not be caught by 
the policy limitations and exclusions on either policy. 
Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mrs B cancelled  either  of the 
policies early, both of the loan terms were relatively short and there  is nothing  to 
suggest (at the time) that Mrs B had plans to repay the loans early.  The purpose of 
these loans was not debt consolidation  or anything  else which  might  suggest a need  
to repay  the loans  early, or that this was likely  to happen. This was the main  
difference between  these  two loans and later loans Mrs B took out.
 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  her to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policies.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B was given a broad description of what the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is each  policy would  protect  her payments for the loan it 
was associated with if Mrs B was unable to work  through accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.) I have reached  this conclusion because a sample of the application form 
that would  have been completed for each loan had a section where Mrs B had to sign to 
agree she wanted  it and also contained the costs  information about  the PPI in a separate 
section. Some discussion must have taken place during  the meetings for the information to 
be entered into the agreements and I think its unlikely Mrs B would have taken  out either 
policy without any sense  of what the PPI was. And I think  Mrs B knew what the costs were  of 
the total premiums  that were added to each of the loans  for the PPI, and also the monthly 
Ref: DRN20349986payment costs of each  PPI policy, as this information would  have been,  in my view, 
sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs B signed.  
But the evidence  from the time of each sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policies over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mrs B agreed to take 
out each of the policies.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policies were a suitable  recommendation for Mrs B Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policies it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mrs B. Im not persuaded  Lloyds  gave Mrs B all of the information she 
needed about the policies  to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take each one out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to Mrs B. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Lloyds done things properly. 
Ref: DRN20349987While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mrs B, I have found that the policies were 
ultimately suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policies in any 
event.
Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out a policy,  the cost of doing  so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there were suitable 
products she could buy that would protect  her loan payments in the event she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sales that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, some of the information Mrs B was given about the costs of 
each policy  she took out was clear.  But the information about other aspects  of the policies,  
such as the limitations  and exclusions  werent as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs B knew  she was for each sale borrowing 
the money to pay for the PPI policy and what it would cost a month, it doesnt appear Lloyds 
told her the total cost of each policy over the loan term including the interest.  
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over the 
term, and the interest would not have made either policy cost significantly more  than Mrs B 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Mrs Bs 
decision to buy each  of the policies in her circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given all of the cost information during the meetings in which she agreed to buy the policies.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs B would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations 
about what the policies would pay in the event of a claim  (an amount sufficient to meet her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what each policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN20349988The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs B knew  about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of each policy; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policies did not provide a pro-rata refund if Mrs B repaid the loan early  and the 
policy with each  loan was cancelled, so it wouldve been more  expensive for Mrs B to 
have done so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, or any other  job which her knowledge and training reasonably 
qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policies werent   
as good as she thought,  and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  out the policies. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of each sale shows the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for her. She was eligible for their benefits and the 
policies provided  cover that, despite  the limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  
to her should the insured  risks have become a reality. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions  Mrs B didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that were 
clearly caught by either policy  restrictions  as I have already indicated  above -and she was 
in permanent employment. Mrs B also didnt likely need, and theres  no evidence to suggest 
for either loan that at the time of taking them out she intended, to repay the loans early.  So, I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs B 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job or 
any other job which she could do bearing  in mind  her knowledge and training, it might  have  
played into her thinking  about  what she would have done. And I accept it may have given 
her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have been overly  concerned  
given that if Mrs B was unable (through  disability) to carry on her own occupation the 
chances that she would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  
be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policies. They were both suitable  for her, were  
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Mrs B made  redundant, or unable  to work 
Ref: DRN20349989through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mrs B would not have 
bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as result of the sales was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policies, I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policies she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN203499810my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf  of 
herself and the late Mr C, to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 February  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2034998