K821x#15complaint
Mx C is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard), declined their claim under
section 
75 (s75) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
The 
background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached a copy
of my provisional decision and it forms part of this, my final decision.
In 
summary, in December 2017, Mx C purchased a mobile phone from a retailer, Ill call T. 
In March 2018, Mx C contacted T to complain that the headphone socket stopped working. 
T offered Mx C a refund as a gesture of goodwill, but Mx C declined this as they werent 
happy with the refund methods T proposed. Mx C then raised a s75 claim with Barclays 
which was declined due to the lack of evidence. However, Barclays paid Mx C £25 
compensation to say sorry for the delay in acknowledging their complaint.
Mx C is unhappy as they believe their s75 claim should be upheld and the compensation 
increased. 
Theyve also raised concerns about some interest charges that were added to 
their account and the way they were treated contrary to the Equality Act 2010. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that I was intending on recommending a total of £150 
compensation 
but not upholding the s75 complaint. This was because in summary, I thought 
Barclays could have done more to resolve the problem, but I didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence of a breach of contract. 
Barclays accepted my decision, however, it asked for clarification as to whether the £150 
compensation was in addition to the £25 it had already paid Mx C.
Mx C replied with further comments and evidence. In summary they said:
T
 offered to provide a refund for the phone as a gesture of goodwill. To support this,
they provided emails from T and a call recording. Despite this, they havent received a
refund from T, and they dont think it is fair they are being forced to comply with Ts
proposed refund methods.
Ts and Barclays actions are fraudulent as theyve been left without either a refund or a
phone.
Barclays should provide evidence the phone was of satisfactory quality and they
shouldve requested the phone from T directly. Although T said there was some
additional damage with the phone, they didnt escalate this issue.
DRN21531142There  are online forums and websites about replacing faulty head sockets made by the
manufacturer of Mx Cs phone, so the fault isnt uncommon.
They  are being accused of breaking the phone and this isnt accurate or fair. The head
socket was damaged as the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality.
They  have discussed their medical needs with Barclays on several occasions so it
should have known their requirements.
Barclays  poor attitude is demonstrated by the fact it returned a letter to Mx C dated 11
November 2018, just because the addressee no longer worked for Barclays. This
caused upset as the purpose of the letter was to ask Barclays to stop contacting them.
The  compensation award hasnt fairly taken into consideration the amount of time,
postage costs or distress this matter has caused them.
Barclays then  got in touch to say that they were prepared to increase their offer to £500 as a 
gesture of goodwill and to bring matters to a close. This was a figure that Mx C had 
previously referred to as an acceptable amount. 
The investigator  contacted Mx C to explain Id already reviewed the file and based on the 
evidence Id seen I thought the offer of £500 was higher than what I would award. Mx C said 
they werent prepared to accept this and they wanted £500 plus £189. 
Our investigator  explained to Mx C that I had reviewed the further representations and I 
wasnt intending to increase the award I made in my provisional decision. So it was open to 
Barclays to withdraw their offer at a later date. 
my findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully  considered all the further points made by Mx C, but they dont change my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. I say that because:
The  call recording and emails Mx C have now provided from T, confirm that the refund
offered by T was a gesture of goodwill. I appreciate Mx C isnt happy with the refund
methods T provided them, but this isnt something our service can comment on. It also
isnt grounds to suggest Barclays should provide a refund instead. As Ive already
explained in my provisional decision, this would only be the case if there is evidence of a
breach of contract. The additional evidence Mx C have now provided doesnt change
this.
There  are no grounds to suggest Barclays acted fraudulently by declining to uphold Mx Cs
s75 claim. This decision was based on the lack of evidence of a breach of contract. This
service is also unable to comment on Ts actions in regard to returning the phone.
It  would have been helpful for Barclays to have contacted T, for the reasons Ive
explained in my provisional decision. However, I dont agree this is sufficient grounds for
suggesting the s75 claim should be upheld.3Online forums arent sufficient evidence to show the damage present on Mx Cs phone  
constitutes a breach of contract. This is because the forums provide generic information  
and dont comment on the reasons Mx Cs phone was damaged.
Im not accusing Mx C of being dishonest or breaking their own phone. But accidental  
damage is one possible explanation for the head socket problem that hasnt been ruled  out. 
Another possibility is that the phone wasnt of satisfactory quality. However, like accidental 
damage, due to the lack of evidence I cant say what happened. It is for this  reason, I dont 
think Barclays acted unreasonably by declining the s75 claim.
Mx C has said Barclays discussed their mental health concerns with them on several  
occasions. This contradicts the information provided by Barclays. But in any event, I  havent 
seen anything which suggests the conversation that took place on 12 July 2018  was 
inappropriate. As Ive already explained, as soon as Mx C said the telephone  conversation 
was upsetting, the call was ended. So, I think this was a reasonable  response to this issue. 
As the relationship between Mx C and Barclays has now ended,
it also isnt necessary to decide whether Mx C should send Barclays evidence of their  
health conditions.
I note Mx Cs concern about a returned letter and I acknowledge it may have caused upset.  
But it doesnt change my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. I say that  
because I remain satisfied that the total compensation of £150 fairly reflects the overall  
level of trouble and upset caused to Mx C during the claims and complaint process
The total of £150 compensation takes into consideration all the circumstances of the  
complaint as detailed in my provisional decision. As Mx C have already received £25 
compensation, Barclays should now pay Mx C an additional £125. Barclays offered
Mx C £500 compensation which they declined. As I indicated to Mx C that is a lot more 
compensation than I think is fair and reasonable. So I wont be directing Barclays to pay
£500 to Mx C. 
my final decision
I 
partially uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard), 
to 
pay Mx C £150 compensation in total, for the trouble and upset it caused them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mx C to accept or 
reject 
my decision before 3 April 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman4COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mx C is unhappy  Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard), declined  their claim  under section 
75 (s75)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
background
Mx C has complained that Barclays unfairly  declined their s75 claim about their mobile phone. Mx C 
has already  provided a detailed timeline,  so Ill just briefly summarise what I think are the key dates.
On 29 December 2017, Mx C used their credit card to purchase  a mobile phone from a retailer, 
Ill call T. The phone cost £189. 
On 29 March 2018, Mx C noticed a fault with the phones headphone  socket and requested a 
refund from T. Due, to the time that had expired; they were asked to send the phone to Ts head 
office so it could be inspected. 
On 9 May 2018, Mx C contacted  Barclays to raise a claim under s75, but Barclays referred Mx C 
back to T and said it couldnt help.
On 16 May 2018, Mx C had a conversation  with an adviser in Ts repair team. During the call, 
Mx C was informed that additional damage was identified on the phone.    Mx C disputed this and 
asked for the matter  to be escalated. They also made it clear they didnt want  the phone  returned 
and they didnt  want to discuss repair quotes.
Mx C has provided extracts from emails theyve said they received  on 16 May 2018 and 17 May 
2018, from T. The extracts  suggest  T was prepared  to provide  a refund and they mention a 
goodwill gesture.  However, Mx C havent provided  the actual emails. Mx C has said they were  
unhappy with this response, as T requested that Mx C completed  a form with their payment 
details and following this, wait up to ten days for the payment  to be made. Mx C felt it wasnt 
necessary for a form to be completed  as theyd already provided their payment details. They  also 
suggested that the payment could just be credited back to the account, the payment was taken 
from. Finally, they said their costs associated with raising the dispute should be paid.
On 8 June  2018, Mx C contacted  Barclays again and the adviser  agreed to log the s75 claim. 
The adviser explained  hed make sure Mx Cs account wasnt adversely affected  because  of the 
dispute. He also said he would send Mx C a dispute form to complete.
On 18 June 2018, Barclays  received Mx Cs completed form and supporting documentation. In 
the covering letter,  Mx C said they wanted to raise a complaint  about  the way theyd been 
treated. They  also asked whether the cost of the transaction  would be deducted from that 
months credit card repayment.  They  said they were questioning this as they usually  pay the 
balance in full and they wanted to avoid any confusion.  Mx C didnt receive a response to this 
question, so they paid what they believed to be the balance,  minus  the cost of the transaction. 
This subsequently resulted in interest being  added  to their account.
On 12 July 2018, Barclays declined the claim  as it said there wasnt a breach  of contract.  
However, it offered £25 compensation for the delay in acknowledging  Mx Cs complaint and 
addressing their question about  the balance. It also arranged  for the interest to be credited back 
to Mx Cs account. It explained that interest had been  applied  to the account as the suspension it 
applied to the transaction  had expired. Following this, Mx C referred the complaint to our service. 
Mx C also asked for their credit card account  to be closed. However,  as theyve raised a 
separate complaint  about this issue with Barclays, I wont address  it here.5Our investigator considered the complaint  and said she didnt think Barclays  acted unreasonably by 
declining the s75 claim. However,  she recommended the bank should  increase its compensation 
award to £150 compensation, as she thought Barclays couldve done  more to help.
Both Barclays and Mx C disagreed with our investigators opinion. Barclays said it didnt  think 
increased compensation was appropriate. This is because it acknowledged the delay in logging the 
complaint, but it didnt  think  it did anything else wrong.
Mx C provided detailed submissions to explain the reasons they disagreed with the investigators 
opinion. But in summary, they didnt  think the compensation adequately reflected the distress and 
inconvenience caused.  They also disagreed that Barclays acted  fairly by declining the claim. They 
also highlighted some concerns about the way they were treated under the Equality Act 2010.
Ive therefore considered the complaint  afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mx C has raised  several points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully reviewed 
each of these, but I wont address all of them in my decision. Ill focus on the points I think  are central  
to the outcome of the complaint.
what were  Barclays obligations towards Mx C?
As Ive already said, Mx C brought their claim to Barclays  under s75 of the CCA. This says if a 
borrower like Mx C has a claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier they can 
also bring that claim against  the lender, in certain circumstances.
The borrower  can ask both the supplier  and the credit provider to consider  a claim at the same time. 
However, the borrower isnt entitled to recover their losses from both parties.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is also relevant  to this complaint.  It says that under  a contract 
to supply  goods, there  is an implied term that the quality  of the goods is satisfactory. To be 
considered satisfactory, the goods would  need to meet  the standard  that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  considering any description  of the goods,  the price and relevant circumstances 
such as age and durability. So, by not provided an item of satisfactory  quality it might be argued the 
supplier has breached their contract with the consumer.
The CRA also allows  consumers to reject  an item and request an automatic refund  within 30 days  of 
purchasing it. As Mx C didnt  raise their concerns with T or Barclays in this timeframe, this right didnt 
apply. However, as the problem was raised within six months, the legislation also says Mx C was able 
to ask for their phone to be repaired or replaced - if it wasnt of satisfactory quality. If this didnt 
resolve things, Mx Cs final right to reject the phone and request a refund may then have applied.
The CRA also says that if a problem is identified during the first six months of ownership, it falls on the 
merchant to show that the product was of satisfactory  quality at the time of sale.  This is provided the 
consumer can first evidence a problem.
has Mx C shown that their phone was damaged?
As Ive said,  Mx C has said their phone wasnt of satisfactory quality, because  it developed a problem 
with the head phone socket four months after purchase. 
 
Based on the telephone  recording with Ts repair team, Im satisfied Mx Cs headphone socket wasnt 
working correctly.  I say this because the adviser  acknowledged the problem, highlighted some 
additional issues with the phone and offered to provide  some quotes for completing  a repair.6was a fault present  or developing  at the point  of sale?
Although Im satisfied  Mx Cs phone was damaged at the point they got in touch  with T, this isnt 
enough for me to conclude it wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of sale.  I say this because; the 
phone appears to have been brand new - Ive seen nothing  to support Mx Cs suggestion they were  
sold a used or reconditioned phone  so I would  also need  to be satisfied the damage was caused by 
a manufacturing fault or an event before Mx C purchased the phone. Given the amount of time Mx C 
had used the phone for, before reporting the problem, it is possible Mx C may have accidentally  
caused the damage.
Mx C hasnt provided any reports about the overall condition of the phone and Barclays hasnt been 
given the opportunity to inspect it in order to assess this and/or the possible cause of the damage.  I 
appreciate Mx C informed T that they didnt  want the phone returned, but this doesnt mean Barclays 
was automatically required  to provide  a refund.
Ive also considered Mx Cs assertion that T agreed to provide a refund due to the breach of contract, 
but there isnt any documentary  evidence which  shows this to be the case. As Ive said,  Mx C has 
provided an extract from an email, which  appears to suggest a refund for the phone was offered. But 
it seems this was done  as a gesture of goodwill rather than because  T accepted the phone  was faulty 
when it was sold to Mx C. 
Mx C has said they didnt  accept  Ts offer,  as they were unhappy about  the payment method and the 
amount of time this would have taken. But this doesnt mean Barclays was automatically  required to 
provide a refund  instead.  It would only have been required to help; if there was sufficient evidence 
that a breach of contract  had occurred.
Considering the above, although Im satisfied the phone head socket is now broken, there isnt 
currently enough  evidence  to show  the problem is due to a breach of contract. So, I dont currently 
think Barclays  acted unreasonably  by declining Mx Cs s75 claim.
did Barclays  provide poor customer service?
Barclays has accepted there was a delay in acknowledging Mx Cs complaint and paid £25 
compensation to say sorry for this. 
Barclays has also said that whilst it could have logged the claim when Mx C first contacted  it, the 
guidance it provided wouldnt  have been substantially different. This is because  it still would have 
required evidence of the breach of contract. And at the time of the call, the dispute was still being 
considered by T.
I appreciate Barclays comments in relation  to this, but I dont think £25 is enough compensation  to 
reflect the upset Mx C was caused. I agree that Barclays required  evidence of a breach  of contract. 
But I think it wouldve been good practice to start the claim when Mx C first got in touch and not doing  
so caused upset.  
I also note, during the telephone conversation  that took place on 12 July 2018, Barclays adviser 
disregarded the relevance of the CRA. He explained that although  he was aware of the legislation, 
Barclays was only required to consider s75. For the reasons, Ive already explained  this information 
wasnt correct. It was reasonable for Mx C to expect the adviser to acknowledge  and understand all 
the relevant legislation that applied to their claim. As this didnt take place, it caused  Mx C to 
experience upset and frustration. 
In addition, although Barclays wasnt required to contact T, I think  it may have been helpful  for it to do 
so in this case. I say this because, Mx Cs submissions did explain  that the phone had been returned 
and there  was also the suggestion that T may have been prepared to provide a refund.  By contacting 
T, Barclays  might therefore have been able to establish more details about the reason for the damage 
and confirm  if a refund offer had been made. If nothing else, that could have helped the bank rule out 
its own liability in the situation.7Mx C has explained that theyve been left without either a refund or a phone because of Barclays 
actions - but I dont agree that is the case. Although  there are things Barclays could have done 
differently as detailed above, it remains  the case that there isnt enough  evidence  of a breach of 
contract. Mx C could also have progressed matters, by requesting the return  of their phone from T, so 
it could be inspected, or alternatively  by providing  Barclays with the full details  of Ts refund offer. 
Finally, Mx C may have been able to resolve  things, by accepting the offer theyve said T made  them.
did Barclays  suspend the transaction?
When Barclays eventually logged the claim  after speaking with Mx C the second time,  it explained it 
would make sure their credit card account wasnt  adversely impacted whilst it considered  the dispute.
It also sent Mx C a letter that said: 
Thanks for getting in touch with us about your disputed transaction(s) on your Barclaycard 
account. To help us get this sorted  for you as quickly as possible, we just need some more 
information from you.                                        
                                                                  
Whilst we're waiting for this, you won't be charged any interest or charges on the transaction(s)  
you told us about - and your minimum  payment will be adjusted to exclude these.                
I think  this information is sufficiently clear about what will happen  in relation to disputed transactions  
that have  yet to be repaid. However,  Mx C bought the phone and repaid the relating  credit card 
balance some months before raising this dispute (in relation to the S75 claim). So I think it is 
understandable they questioned  what the statement  in the letter  meant for them.  It is therefore  
unfortunate Barclays didnt reply to Mx Cs question  about  this, before the next monthly  credit card 
repayment became due. 
Despite this, I think Mx C could have reasonably  avoided interest being applied to their account, by 
making their full contractual payment while awaiting Barclays reply. I say this because they were 
aware their claim was still being considered when  the monthly payment became  due, and the 
outcome was therefore  uncertain.  In addition, under  the terms and conditions  of the account, Barclays 
was allowed to apply  interest if the full monthly contractual payment wasnt made.
Mx C has also disputed Barclays suggestion that interest was applied  because the suspension it had 
applied to the transaction  expired. Theyve  said their statements dont suggest anything  was suspended 
and they made the monthly payment, during the time Barclays said the transaction  was meant to be on 
hold. But Im not sure how the transaction could have been suspended given that, as Ive already said, 
Mx C had repaid the credit  card balance  that related to the phone  purchase before the claim was raised. 
However, I wouldnt expect a suspension of this nature  to show on Mx Cs statement in any event. Im 
also satisfied the information contained in the statement  is factually correct.  
Barclays has apologised  for not addressing Mx Cs question  in good time.  It also refunded the interest 
five days  after it was applied  to Mx Cs account, as a gesture  of goodwill.  So, I think this fairly resolves  
this issue.
Mx C has also said they believe their credit rating was impacted because  they didnt pay the full 
contractual payment,  but Ive seen  no evidence to suggest  this was the case.
did Barclays  treat Mx C fairly?
Its not my role to determine whether  Mx C have  been  discriminated against under  the Equality Act 
2010  including whether  Barclays failed to make a reasonable adjustment - as thats a matter  for the 
courts. However, I have considered whether  Barclays has treated Mx C fairly and reasonably, and 
when doing so, Ive taken into account the law as Im required to do. So Ive considered what  I think  a 
court is likely find if Mx C did make a claim  under the Equality Act 2010.8Mx C have raised concerns  about the way they were treated during the telephone conversation on 12 
July 2018. Having listened to this conversation, I havent identified anything wrong in relation to the 
way the adviser responded to Mx Cs needs. Towards  the end of the call, Mx C highlighted their 
mental health condition and said they didnt  want to speak anymore because they were getting 
distressed. Theres  nothing  which suggests Barclays ought to have been reasonably aware of Mx Cs 
mental condition before  they mentioned it towards the end of the call - or that their mental  health 
condition might  meet  the statutory  definition of disability.  So, currently, I dont think a court is likely to 
find that Barclays failed to make reasonable adjustments during this call. I also note Barclays 
representative agreed to wrap up the call when Mx C asked to do so. So, I dont think Barclays did 
anything wrong here. 
Mx C has also said it was inappropriate for Barclays to request medical information about their health 
condition, when they raised concerns about the way theyd been treated.  I dont think  this request  was 
unreasonable, as Barclays asked for this information  to try and better  understand Mx Cs condition 
and any adjustments it might be able to make to help.
Barclays has also said it requested this information because Mx C didnt  request any specific 
adjustments when they first made  it aware of their circumstances. I also note that 
Mx C has now ended their relationship with Barclays by closing the account, so I dont think it needs 
to do anything  else in relation to this concern. 
should the compensation  be increased? 
Mx C has explained that the £150 compensation, recommended by our investigator, doesnt reflect 
the trouble and upset they experienced. Theyve also quoted case  studies  from our website to 
highlight why they think a significantly higher  award should be made. Barclays has said it doesnt 
think any additional compensation should be paid. For the reasons  Ive already explained, I dont 
agree that would be fair.
The compensation  payments this service recommends  are based on the individual circumstances of 
each complaint. The case studies on our website are therefore only to be used as examples. But, in 
any event, I dont agree the case studies Mx C has highlighted are sufficiently similar to the 
circumstances here. 
In this instance,  I think £150  compensation is a reasonable amount to reflect the trouble  and upset  
caused, by the way Barclays  handled  Mx Cs s75 claim.  This includes the confusion  caused by the 
delay in logging the claim and the frustration  and upset caused by the poor information Barclays 
provided during the telephone conversation Ive highlighted. I dont think compensation beyond this 
amount would  be fair or reasonable,  as I dont think the consequences of these errors,  although 
upsetting, were long-lasting.  
my provisional  decision 
For the reasons  Ive given, Im planning on partially  upholding Mx Cs complaint and directing 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard), to pay Mx C £150 compensation  for the trouble  and 
upset it caused.
Ill consider any further evidence I receive  before 6 February 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman 