K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). Hes also complained about the information Lloyds has given to 
him during its investigation of this complaint.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary  of my provisional decision, I didnt think the offer Lloyds had made  to Mr B was 
fair. 
Mr B initially  took out his credit card in 1978   based on the information  I had, I thought PPI 
was sold at a later date in 1996. Lloyds didnt have  information about  Mr Bs credit  card 
balance prior to 2000. And so it made  assumptions as to what it thought Mr Bs balance was 
likely to have been based on the information  it did have  this is normal process where 
information is missing. Lloyds then used the assumptions it had made about Mr Bs account 
activity to calculate how much Mr B is likely  to have paid in PPI premiums (including interest 
on those premiums) and what should be paid to Mr B as a result of the PPI being  on his 
account.
Lloyds initial calculations  were based  on the assumption that Mr Bs balance  in 1996   when 
he first took out the PPI policy  was zero. But because  Mr B took his card out in 1978, I 
didnt think it was fair for Lloyds to make  this assumption.  I think  it would be fairer  to 
presume that Mr B had been using his card since 1978 and that there  would be a balance on 
the account. Because of this, I asked Lloyds to reconstruct the account, with the assumption 
that there  was a balance in 1996.
Mr B wasnt  happy with the amount  of compensatory interest  Lloyds had offered to pay him 
on the PPI. I explained in my provisional decision why I thought the 8% simple interest was 
fair.
Lloyds initially told Mr B that his PPI started in 1978,  it later realised that this wasnt right and 
so it offered  to pay him £150 for the upset this may have caused him. I thought this was also 
fair.
Since issuing my provisional  decision, Lloyds has now provided me with an updated account 
reconstruction. I have also shared this with Mr B.
Mr B has responded to my provisional  decision  with a number of points. Ive outlined the 
main points below:
1.Mr B doesnt agree  with the interest rate Lloyds have used as part of their 
calculations. He says this assumes what  he would have done with the money had he 
not been paying for the PPI. 
2.Mr B has also provided more testimony about  why he thinks  the PPI started in 1978.
3.Mr B has a number of questions relating to how Lloyds has calculated the PPI 
redress after having seen the new breakdown.
Ref: DRN26752252my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not changing the 
outcome of my provisional decision and Im upholding this complaint about the amount of 
redress that is due to Mr B. 
Lloyds has now sent me in a copy of Mr Bs credit  card account that has been  reconstructed  
 to show what the account is likely to have  looked  like with the PPI, and what it is likely  to 
have looked like without  the PPI. It has now done  what I asked in my provisional decision 
and based its assumptions in line with what I said. Ive looked closely  at the calculations it 
has now sent me and Im happy that these are now a fairer representation of what  Mr B is 
likely to have paid in PPI  including interest  associated with the PPI. 
For clarity,  Ill address  Mr Bs points below:
1.Mr B doesnt agree  with the interest rate used
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision why I think Lloyds should pay Mr B 8% per 
year simple  interest on, what would have been  a credit balance  if he had never had the PPI. 
And Ive explained  why I think  this is fair. So while I have taken into account all of Mr Bs 
comments relating to this, I am not changing my provisional findings on this point.
2.PPI start date
Ive thought about what Mr B has said about his PPI being sold in 1978. And while  I 
appreciate it must have  been frustrating for Mr B when he was given  this incorrect 
information by Lloyds on this point, I havent  seen anything that makes me think the cover  
was sold along  with the card. While Lloyds dont have any of Mr Bs transactional data prior 
to 2000, it has been  able to show me its internal records that say PPI was sold in 1996  and 
this is why I think this is more likely to be the case.  Mr B has also told me that he upgraded 
his credit card in 1996, so its possible that the PPI could have been sold alongside this 
upgrade.
3.updated calculations  provided by Lloyds
Mr B has raised a number  of queries in relation to how the redress  has been calculated.  
Here, Ill talk more generally  about  how this has been done  and why I think this is a fair way 
to compensate Mr B for the PPI that he had been  paying for.
Ref: DRN26752253Ive already explained that Lloyds have had to use assumptive data in its calculations. This is 
because it doesnt  have actual transactional data prior to 2000.  The fairest way to work out 
what the PPI is likely to have been  is to make assumptions based on the activity on Mr Bs 
account for when it does  have data. I explained in my provisional decision why I thought  
Lloyds needed  to do more to make  the assumptive data fairer  and more accurate. Lloyds 
have since done  this and Im happy with how it has done this.
Our approach to compensation is to put a person back in the position  they would have been 
in had something not happened. In Mr Bs case,  putting him in the position (or as close to 
this as possible) had the PPI not be added  to the account. Where information is missing  or 
incomplete, as it is in this case, I have to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened 
in the circumstances. Of course  I understand that this is difficult  to do  as it would mean  
knowing what a person might have  done  with the money had they never been paying for 
PPI. And so we have  a general  and set approach to calculating redress relating  to PPI  and 
I have taken this approach into account  when considering Mr Bs complaint. 
The calculations show Lloyds has done the following:
-Fairly made assumptions about what the credit card balance  was for when it has no 
data (pre 2000) and has used  actual data where it has this (post 2000).
-It has refunded all PPI amounts and any interest that was associated with this  so 
this would include interest charged on the PPI at the same rate as the rest of the 
credit card balance.
-Most  of the time, Lloyds has assumed that Mr B would have made the same 
payments towards the credit card even if he hadnt bought  PPI. 
-But in some months, it assumes  he would have paid something different - for 
example, in months where Mr B in fact paid more  than he would have owed if PPI 
hadnt been charged to the account.
-Where this happens, Lloyds refunds the difference between these payments, and 
adds interest (8% simple) on the difference to compensate Mr B for the time hes 
been out of pocket.
Mr B doesnt  think this is fair. He thinks Lloyds should assume that hed have  made the 
same payments  as he wouldnt  have known at the time that he shouldnt have been  
charged for the PPI. Ive thought carefully about  what Mr B has said.  I think  its rare for a 
customer to deliberately pay more towards a credit card account than they owe. And Im not 
persuaded Mr B would have made  the same payments  he did if he hadnt been paying  for 
PPI. This is supported  by Mr Bs actual  account  activity which  shows  he has never paid more  
than the outstanding balance on the account.  As well as this, often, businesses wont allow  a 
credit card account to go into credit   this is to prevent money laundering. So while I 
appreciate Mr Bs point,  I think the fairest thing to do is assume that the amount overpaid 
would have been refunded, and 8% simple  interest is paid on this to compensate Mr B for 
being out of pocket for this amount. 
Id like to thank Mr B for taking the time to respond to me. And Id like to reassure him that 
Ive taken everything he has said into consideration when coming to my decision.  But for the 
reasons set out above and in my provisional decision attached  below, I think  Lloyds have 
now calculated the PPI redress fairly.
So Lloyds should now update its calculations and pay Mr B the amount it has worked out. 
Ref: DRN26752254my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Lloyds Bank  PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26752255copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B has complained that he was mis-sold  a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy by Lloyds 
Bank PLC (Lloyds). Hes also complained about the information Lloyds has given to him during its 
investigation of this complaint.
background
Mr B took out a credit card with Lloyds in 1978. PPI was also sold to cover the repayments of this 
credit card account. In 2017  Mr B complained that PPI had been mis-sold. Lloyds didnt agree, so he 
brought the complaint  to this service. After Mr B referred the complaint to us, Lloyds  looked at the 
complaint again and decided to make  Mr B an offer to settle the complaint.
When Lloyds initially corresponded with Mr B, it implied that the PPI policy was sold in 1978  at the 
same time the credit  card was taken out. But Lloyds has since told us that the PPI was taken out in 
September 1996.
Lloyds offered Mr B total compensation of £914.95. This was what Lloyds  worked out he was likely to 
have been charged in PPI premiums and interest on those premiums (£439.03). Its also added  8% 
per year simple interest on the extra Mr B paid because he had PPI on his account (£475.92 after 
tax). Its calculated  these  figures from September 1996, when it says the PPI was sold until December  
2001 which was when PPI was last charged to the account. And it has calculated simple  interest up 
until July 2017.
Lloyds record of transactions only go back as far as January 2000,  so it has had to make some 
assumptions on Mr Bs likely balance  and PPI premiums  charged  from September 1996 to December  
1999.
Our adjudicator initially  thought that the offer was fair but suggested that Lloyds  should pay Mr B 
some trouble and upset  for the error it made in telling Mr B the PPI was sold in 1978 and not 1996. Mr 
B responded to the adjudicators opinion making a number of points,  but mainly that the offer doesnt 
include some of the interest he paid as a result of PPI  but has specifically commented on how 
Lloyds has calculated interest after the PPI had been cancelled. Lloyds has paid Mr B £150 trouble 
and upset for the error it made in providing the wrong  date of sale  but Mr B thinks the offer should 
be higher.
Another adjudicator looked at the complaint  again and thought that some of the assumptions Lloyds 
had made  when reconstructing the balance  werent  fair and it should recalculate  the redress due on 
that basis. Lloyds didnt agree with our adjudicator. 
Because neither  party agreed,  the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has made Mr B an offer to settle his complaint, Im not going  to look at the sale of this 
policy. But I do need to consider whether the offer its made to Mr B is fair. I dont currently think it is. 
And Ill explain why I think this below.
Ref: DRN26752256If I think a business has mis-sold PPI Id expect it to put the consumer  in the position  theyd be in now 
if they hadnt  had PPI on their account. So Id expect  it to work out and pay what  the consumer had 
been charged  for PPI premiums and the extra  interest charged because of them. Id also expect a 
business to check if the consumer  paid more than they wouldve needed to without PPI. And if they 
did, pay 8% per year simple  interest on the extra  for the time they were  out of pocket.
Lloyds has calculated the PPI premiums  from September 1996 (when the PPI was sold)  up until 
December 2001 (when the last charge for PPI was applied to the account)  and I think this date 
range is right. Lloyds internal systems show PPI was sold in 1996 and there isnt any other evidence 
to show  this is wrong. So I dont  think it would be fair to tell Lloyds to assume  Mr Bs PPI started  in 
1978.
Lloyds only has transactional data from January 2000  so it can only calculate  the exact amount Mr 
B paid in PPI from this date. Prior to this date, Lloyds has made an assumption on what Mr Bs 
account balance  and PPI premiums would have been based on his average account activity  of the 
first 12 months of factual  data.  In this case, it has done this on factual data held from January  2000 to 
December 2000. 
But Lloyds has assumed  that in September 1996, Mr Bs statement  balance was zero. But Mr Bs 
credit card account had been  running  since 1978, so I think it unlikely that his statement balance in 
1996 would have been zero  especially when  you compare this to the factual  data we have on file, 
which shows his balance wasnt ever cleared in the first 12 months of available  data. So I currently 
think Lloyds should reconstruct the account  taking  this into consideration, and produce a fairer offer to 
Mr B. 
I think  Lloyds should take an average of the statement  balance in the first 12 months it has data for. It 
should then assume Mr B built his balance up to this average balance from 1978 and use these 
figures to work out what  he would have been charged for PPI between  September 1996 and 
December 1999.
Mr B didnt agree  with the adjudicators initial assessment, because mainly, he didnt  think the way 
Lloyds had calculated  the offer once the PPI had been removed was fair. Ive looked at this point 
carefully and considered everything Mr B has said, and having done  so, I think that Lloyds has done 
what Id expect it to, and Ill explain  why.
Mr B has made its own calculation as to what he thinks would be a fair amount of redress to settle the 
complaint. But I dont  think  the figures hes presented to me are a fair way to resolve the complaint.  
Mr B says that he made overpayments because of PPI when he cleared his balance in January  2002.  
He says he should be refunded compound interest of around 15.6% per annum  on the overpayments  
he wouldnt have made if PPI hadnt been  on the account. He says this represents the amount the 
bank would have charged him to borrow this money. 
Mr B paid back more than he needed to when he cleared his balance as hed been charged for PPI 
and I agree he should  get that back. But he didnt lend that money to Lloyds, it was something he 
paid for - a product  he didnt need. So I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to pay 15.6% compound 
interest on the extra he paid,  but I do think there should be some interest for the time he was out of 
pocket. I think  8% per year simple interest is the fair amount in this case. Its difficult to know precisely 
what Mr B would have done with the money if he had it in 2002. This interest  compensates him for 
being out of pocket and is broadly reflective of the amount it wouldve cost him to borrow  that money 
or how much he might  have  earned in interest  if he left the money  in a bank account.  
So because  of this, I dont think  that Lloyds needs to change  the way it has calculated compensation  
on the extra he paid.
Ref: DRN26752257Because of the incorrect information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI start date, Lloyds  has paid Mr B 
£150 for the trouble  and upset this has caused. Mr B thinks this amount should  be higher and has 
used our online  resource to understand what he thinks he should be awarded. But I dont  agree that 
he should be awarded more than what Lloyds has already paid him. I appreciate  that Mr B has had a 
number of dealings  with Lloyds in which  he was given wrong information  about  the PPI start date, and 
Ive taken into account the timeline  of events hes given me. But ultimately,  I dont think  Lloyds error 
has impacted  on the length of time it has taken for this complaint  to be resolved  or left Mr B 
significantly out of pocket as a result of the incorrect information.
So overall, I think  Lloyds should recalculate  the offer,  taking  into account my comments. I dont think 
Lloyds needs to change  the way its calculated interest on the overpayments  and I dont think that 
Lloyds needs to pay Mr B any more  compensation for the error it made, or the general service it had 
provided.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint about the overall amount of 
redress due. 
Id like Lloyds to send me a breakdown of any updated compensation calculation before I issue a final 
decision.
I now invite  Mr B and Lloyds to give me any further information they want me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 9 August 2018.
Ref: DRN2675225