K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr E bought the policy by post in 1997  at the same time as taking a credit card. From  what  
hes told us, at the time of the sale he was in good health and hadnt had any health issues. 
He hasnt told us of having been entitled  to any work  sick pay or redundancy pay beyond 
statutory pay or of having had any savings or other  means with which to pay his card if he 
couldnt work. His credit card application form says he was employed at the time.  What he 
sent us referred  to a sale in 1999  for a loan and gave his employer a different name  to that 
on his card application form. We invited more about  his employment but didnt receive more.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also life cover, 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Es credit card balance 
in the event of a successful claim.  The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear  the card 
balance on death.  The policy at the time cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  had to be paid still during a successful claim and attracted interest.
Nationwide has sent us evidence showing the credit card account closed in 1999.  Mr Es 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. Ill not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Es 
representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr E wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Es representative believes there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Nationwide  should have told Mr E 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr E and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr E received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr E disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN27740072my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1999. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Es case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN27740073Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Building Societies Ombudsman  
in this case  might  have  been expected to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr E with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr E sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr E, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent he suffered loss or damage and what  
I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr E and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr E know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr E has said he had no interest in 
PPI and it was part of the package. But his card application form told him he had a choice 
about the PPI  and asked him to tick to indicate  his choice.
The card application  form had boxes to tick to either  take the PPI or turn it down. By the first 
box it referred to wanting protection  against being  unable to work. By the second  box it 
said: I do not want to take this protection and understand that I will be responsible  for 
making my card repayments each month if I am unable to work. On Mr Es form, which  he 
signed to take the card,  the first box is ticked  and I think  he wouldve  known  to tick the 
second box if he didnt  want  the cover. Taking  everything into account,  I think  its more  likely 
Mr E knew  the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN27740074did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide and Mr E agree advice wasnt given during this sale.  This means  Nationwide 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr E. Instead,  it had to give him sufficient,  
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Mr Es application  form - showing PPI was selected. Ive 
also seen policy terms and conditions  which  I accept - on a balance  of probabilities - applied 
to policies like Mr Es. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr E at the time,  I dont think Nationwide gave him the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form told Mr E the PPI was insurance for his 
repayments against unemployment,  accidents,  sickness and death  and cost 60p per £100 
of outstanding balance. This wouldve given him a broad idea of what  the policy was for  in 
any event, I think it unlikely  he wouldve agreed  to take the policy without having at least  a 
broad understanding of the cover it provided.
But it was Nationwides  responsibility to draw to Mr Es attention the important information  
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. Im not persuaded Nationwide  did enough  
to do this. For example,  I dont think the true cost of the policy was made clear to Mr E, 
including the need to maintain premiums  during  a claim  or that the payments would attract 
interest. In addition, I cant see that Nationwide adequately drew to Mr Es attention the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr E sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including  drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case. 
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Es representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Es. 
I have considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Es representative  considers  to be poor  value. 
Ref: DRN27740075-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr E about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Es representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr E has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either.
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr E? To what extent did Mr E 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr E. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr E 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr E 
would have still taken  the policy, had Nationwide done things  properly. Mr E says he would 
not have taken it and believes I should  presume this to be the case given the significant 
failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr E had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr E chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr E thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr E has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr E ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But I 
accept Nationwide  didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while Mr E didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr E thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims arising from health  issues that at the policy  start Mr E 
was aware of or had suffered from in the previous twelve months; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr E be completely unable  
to attend his normal occupation  or any other occupation which his knowledge or 
training already enabled him to do; and
Disability and unemployment cover would end at state  retirement age. 
Ref: DRN27740076I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr E pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy was not as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr E from taking  the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr E didnt  have any pre-existing medical 
conditions and was in permanent employment,  for example. So, I think he still had some  
good reasons  to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr E would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr E had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only completely unable to 
attend his normal  occupation but also unable to attend any other  occupation which his 
knowledge or training already enabled him to do, it might  have  played  into his thinking about 
what to do. And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought   although, given  his 
circumstances, on balance I think Mr E would have still been interested in taking the cover.
Mr E has complained he became ineligible to claim on the policy  during its term when he 
reached age 65. Ive thought about this and the fact Mr E wouldnt have been able to claim 
for disability  or unemployment after state  retirement age. But Mr E was in his forties when he 
took the policy, so I think it more  likely  than not hed have thought  hed still get some value 
out of having it - as it wouldve covered him for disability and unemployment for a reasonable 
period of time before he turned 65. His card and policy ended well before he turned 65.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr E would still have  taken the PPI. It was sufficiently  close to what he thought he was 
getting and, aside from any entitlement he had to statutory  work benefits, he hasnt told us of 
anything else he had to pay his card with if he couldnt work due to disability or redundancy. 
In those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not he wouldve taken the PPI in any 
event. Also,  the policy couldve  provided a useful  benefit at a difficult time, notwithstanding 
Mr Es work benefits and other means.
Mr Es representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms  but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account along with 
many other things when  I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering the 
purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the approach I 
have taken. 
Ref: DRN27740077I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr E would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr E 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he wouldve been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr E believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr E in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im satisfied 
that, of the two possibilities,  its more likely  than not Mr E would still have taken the PPI had 
he been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was buying. So 
Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to conclude  
Nationwide should  pay Mr E compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr E thinks  Nationwide misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr E, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1997 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Es representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr E and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr E in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done.
Ref: DRN27740078my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2774007