K820x#14complaint
Ms S, trading as SSL, complains that GPUK LLP (GPUK) failed to follow a chargeback 
defence process  properly,  which  means  she lost money.
background
Ms S runs a business, SSL.  She had shop  premises,  where  customers  make purchases face 
to face, often making payment using a card terminal. 
In April 2019 she sold goods to the value of £1,666. She said the customer used  a card to 
pay, entered the correct  PIN, and the signature  on the terminal  matched as required by the 
terminal. So Ms S said she had no reason to be concerned, and felt that the transaction  was 
authorised when an authorisation code was generated.
Unfortunately for Ms S, the card was being  used by a fraudster, and the genuine  card-holder  
 when s/he realised  what  had happened  a month or so later  disputed the transaction on 
the basis it wasnt authorised. So the payment was taken back via the chargeback  process 
from Ms Ss account. 
Ms S then asked GPUK to defend the chargeback. It did so, but the defence  wasnt 
accepted by the genuine card holders  bank, and the payment was accepted  as fraud.  As 
such, the defence to the chargeback failed,  leaving Ms S out of pocket. 
She didnt  think this was fair. She felt there  had to be some protection for her in the fraud 
scenario, and that she could never  have  known that the person using the card wasnt  the 
genuine card holder.  She wondered whether there  was something wrong with the terminal 
itself. She believed that the fact that card was being used fraudulently  ought  to have been 
picked up by the card machine.
She complained to GPUK and it explained  that it had followed the correct chargeback 
defending process,  in accordance with the relevant card scheme rules, and that there wasnt 
anything else it could  do. 
Ms S still felt this was unfair,  so she brought her complaint to our service.  
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that although Ms S had sustained a 
loss, it wasnt due to any act or omission on GPUKs part. She felt it had followed the 
chargeback defending process properly, which was what the complaint was about. And while  
it was clearly unfair that Ms Ss business  had lost out, this was ultimately the fault of the 
fraudster, and not GPUK.
Ms S still felt she should  have been  better protected, and shouldnt  have to bear the cost.  So 
she asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN25571112Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that I cant uphold  this complaint. To 
do so Id need to have  been to satisfied that GPUK either made a mistake, or treated Ms S 
unfairly, and Im afraid  I havent  been.
I understand this decision  will come as a great  disappointment to Ms S. Her business has 
ultimately been a victim  of fraud, and has lost a large payment. But it wouldnt be fair for me 
to say that this was GPUKs responsibility, and specifically,  that it didnt do enough, or do so 
properly, to try to get the money  back.
As Ms S is aware,  the chargeback process is run by the card issuer, and subject to the 
relevant card scheme  rules. Ive looked at the evidence  and am satisfied that GPUK  
defended the chargeback satisfactorily and in accordance with those rules.  But Ive seen  that 
because the payment was accepted as fraudulent by the paying  bank,  and was noted as a 
card not present (CNP) transaction,  the defence couldnt succeed.
The reason  the payment was recorded as CNP is because the card details were manually 
input into the card terminal. GPUKs explained that in doing  so, theres a lower layer  of 
security, and merchants  are warned  of the risk of taking such  payments. Theyre  also made  
aware that an authorisation code isnt the same as saying  the payments genuine. It only 
means theres enough money to make  the payment.
So whats  happened here is that because  the transactions been categorised as CNP,  and 
was subsequently reported and accepted  as being fraudulent, Ms Ss defence  wasnt able to 
succeed. This is because  she took a risk in accepting payment in that manner. 
So while Im genuinely  sorry  to hear that shes been  an innocent party to events, and her 
business has lost money,  Im afraid  I cant say that this is because  of anything  GPUK  did, or 
failed to do, in respect of the chargeback  process.  And I dont think  its treated her unfairly. 
As such,  I cant uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I cant uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S, on behalf 
of SSL, to accept  or reject my decision before  6 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2557111