K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains about end of contract  charges  when  his agreement with PSA Finance UK 
Limited ended.
background 
In August  2016  Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a 24 month  hire agreement 
with PSA.
At the end of the agreement the car was inspected and found to have  damage  which  
exceeded fair wear  and tear. The damage  comprised corrosion to three  alloy wheels 
(charged at £65 per wheel) and paint flaking  on the front left wing (charged at £122).
Mr C complained to PSA.  He felt that the charges were unfair  and that the flaking paint was 
a manufacturing  fault for which he shouldnt be held responsible.
PSA reviewed the inspection report and said that because  corrosion to alloy wheels was a 
common issue it would remove these charges as a gesture of goodwill. As a further gesture 
of goodwill  PSA offered to reduce the charges  by a further £50 leaving a balance of £72 for 
Mr C to pay.
Mr C remained  unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the inspection  had ben carried out in 
accordance with BVLRA guidelines and the photos  showed flaking paint.  The investigator 
felt that the damage to the paintwork went  beyond fair wear  and tear and said that PSA was 
entitled  to charge for it. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said he hadnt  had any repairs carried out to the part of the car where 
the paint was flaking. He also said that the inspector had told him that the flaking paint was a 
common manufacturing fault because the plastic bumper  rubs on the metal  wing causing 
flaking.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the agreement. This says that the car should be returned  in good condition  
and that damage  which  exceeds fair wear  and tear is the customers  responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  PSA says exceeds fair 
wear and tear and is therefore chargeable. There are also photos  of the damage.
The damage to the paintwork is visible and Im satisfied that it exceeds fair wear  and tear in 
accordance with the industry guidelines. Because of this Im also satisfied that PSA is 
entitled to charge for the damage.
Ref: DRN26066702Ive taken into account what Mr C has said about  the flaking paint being a manufacturing  
defect. I have no reason  to doubt that Mr C had a discussion  with the inspector but Im 
unable to make any findings based on hearsay  evidence. This service  has spoken directly  to 
the manufacturer of the car to ask whether  there are any known faults  with paintwork. 
Citroen has confirmed  there  are no known faults.  Ive also conducted my own research on 
internet forums but havent found  any information  to suggest that this is a common  fault.
Because of this Im unable to conclude  that the damage to the paintwork is as a result of a 
manufacturing fault.
Taking all of the available evidence into account  Im satisfied that the charges have been 
correctly applied. I cant say that PSA has acted unfairly and I think  the offer to reduce the 
charges to £72 was fair.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2606670