K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about  the poor service and quality of repairs following a claim on 
their home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs C suffered  an attempted burglary at their home.  The damaged French  doors 
were removed for repair. But when they were refitted the repairs and installation  were of a 
poor quality.  There were gaps in the middle and the doors  were  no longer aligned.
A few months later Mr and Mrs Cs property was burgled again and the repaired doors were 
forced open. A second visit from Lloyds repair agents confirmed the doors  had been  
repaired with softwood after the first burglary.  They were  removed  again  and the doorway 
was boarded over, severely restricting  access to the large rear garden.  
When the repaired doors were returned  over three months later they were  in such a poor 
condition that it was agreed  not to fit them. The doorway remained boarded over.  So Mr and 
Mrs C would like Lloyds to pay for the doors to be replaced by a trusted local joinery 
company.
Lloyds apologised  for any upset or inconvenience experienced by Mr and Mrs C. It was clear 
they were unhappy  with the overall  service theyd received from the property company acting 
on its behalf. Lloyds  arranged a payment of £150 compensation for the delays and 
inconvenience. It said another  visit had been  arranged but Mr C thought hed cancelled the 
meeting so it didnt  take place.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied with Lloyds response.  So they contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see the situation had been very distressing for 
Mr and Mrs C. She noted the cost of repairs from the property service was just over £2500. 
But the quotations obtained by Mr and Mrs C were  for nearly £5000 and £7000. 
She didnt  think it was fair for Lloyds  to pay more than it would cost to use its own contractor. 
Lloyds had offered  a cash settlement  towards  the repairs  if Mr and Mrs C wanted to use a 
different company. Our investigator felt Lloyds had dealt  with the complaint fairly. The 
compensation of £150 was in line with what shed  have  recommended. And she wouldnt ask 
Lloyds to do anything  more.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They werent  happy  with Lloyds offer.  Theyd had to chase for 
over a year without progress. So theyve  asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This has clearly been a very upsetting time for Mr and Mrs C. Theyve suffered two 
attempted burglaries at their property. And its understandable that they want  Lloyds to repair  
the damaged  door to a same standard as it was before.  So Ive looked  very carefully  at 
whats happened and whether Lloyds  needs to do anything more  to put things right.
Ref: DRN21550622The doorway  into Mr and Mrs Cs house  has been  boarded up for a long period of time.  And 
this has impacted on their access and enjoyment  of the rear garden. They also feel 
frustrated by the number of letters  and calls theyve  had to make to try and keep things 
moving.
Mr and Mrs C are also worried that they might suffer another  burglary and theyve increased 
the security to their property. I understand how worrying it can be in such circumstances,  
although it wouldnt be fair to hold Lloyds  responsible for the distress  caused by the break-
ins. After the second burglary the doorway was securely boarded  up by Lloyds agents to 
prevent any further  entry. And although  this has impacted on Mr and Mrs Cs use of the 
property I think that was the right thing to do in the circumstances.
Its important the repairs  are now completed to a good standard  so Mr and Mrs C can return  
to a more normal  use of their property.  Although  Lloyds did contract  a property company to 
repair the damaged  door there  have  clearly been problems with the quality of the work. The 
first repairs  seem to have been below standard and failed to prevent the second  burglary 
from taking place. And the second  attempt was too poor to fit.
Mr and Mrs C have obtained quotations  from local businesses  but Lloyds property company 
said it will repair the door to the same  standard using the same hardwood as the other 
companies have  quoted  for. Its understandable Mr and Mrs C have now lost faith in Lloyds 
agents and want  to use someone else to provide and fit a replacement door. But 
unfortunately there is a large  difference in the costs  quoted by Lloyds own repairers and 
those of the local companies.  
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Cs home  insurance policy document.  Under the section how 
much will we pay it says Lloyds will arrange  for the work to be carried  out or pay the cost of 
repairing or reinstating as new.  But it wont pay more than the cost to Lloyds (after any 
discount available from our approved suppliers) of repairing or rebuilding. 
Unfortunately the cost to insurer and consumer can sometimes be different. So if Mr and 
Mrs C dont want Lloyds to put things right it wouldnt be fair to ask Lloyds to pay a much 
higher cost when  it wasnt its decision. If Mr and Mrs C want  to use a different business, 
Lloyds say it will make  a cash  settlement of its own estimated cost of repairs (less the policy 
excess). And I think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances.
Lloyds has paid compensation  of £150 for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs C have suffered 
while dealing with its property company.  I think thats reasonable and its in line with the sort 
of award this service  would normally make.  I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with 
this outcome. But I cant ask Lloyds  to pay considerably more  for repair  work  when it 
believes its own repairers can complete the work  for a smaller  cost. That wouldnt be fair. So 
I wont be asking Lloyds  to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2020.
Ref: DRN21550623Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2155062