K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  unfairly applied an early 
settlement charge (ESC) when he wanted to repay  a loan early.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  findings  on this complaint on 16 March 2020. A copy of 
that decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
I explained why I wasnt planning to uphold  this complaint and asked  both parties to let me 
know if there was anything they wanted to add. Satsuma didnt respond to my provisional  
decision; Mr M did, providing some additional  information and making  a number of additional 
points. Mr M said (in summary):
He had actually  wanted to settle  his loan in June 2018, not May and had 
misremembered this due to the passage of time.
He estimates hed have saved around £153 if hed settled his loan early  in June but 
Satsuma disincentivised him by applying early repayment charges for 28 days.
Satsuma didnt  explain/justify the early repayment charges and lenders  in this sector 
dont usually apply  charges like this.
Satsuma should at least refund the interest  charged after 15 June, as he wouldve 
settled the loan on this date had he not been  disincentivised to settle the loan early.  
Mr M also provided some additional  bank  statements and spreadsheets. I can see Mr M has 
pointed out the date the spreadsheet was created and I accept what  he has said about this.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Ms new points and the new evidence he has provided, along  
with everything previously provided.  Having done so, my final decision is that this complaint 
should not be upheld. I understand this will be disappointing for Mr M but I hope he can 
understand why I reached this decision.
Ive looked again at the contact notes Satsuma  provided. They  show  Mr M called Satsuma 
on 10 May 2018 to discuss  repaying  the loan early and that he was provided with a quote 
including early settlement  charges (which I previously found Satsuma were  not entitled  to 
apply). The notes  suggested Mr M was confused  by these  charges and I can see an email 
was sent explaining the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 the following 
day. 
There are no further contact notes until 6 September 2018 when Mr M apparently  called to 
log a complaint about the early settlement figure. Mr M settled the loan hes complaining  
about on 7 August 2018  about a month before his next contact with Satsuma.
These events took place  a couple of years ago and its understandable if memories  fade 
over time. So whilst Ive taken Mr Ms recollections at face value, I find Satsumas contact  
notes are persuasive in so far as they show Mr M only contacted Satsuma  on one occasion 
about early settlement in May 2018.
Ref: DRN27942792I found this to be important in my provisional decision as it appeared to me that Mr M wasnt 
in a position to settle  his loan early  in May.  So while Satsuma acted incorrectly  by applying 
early settlement charges in Mr Ms case, I didnt think this had caused him a loss as his only 
choice at that time appeared to be to repay the loan at its full term.
Although Mr M didnt contact Satsuma  again about early  settlement, its possible that he, as 
he suggests, might have settled the loan early, at some  other  point, had Satsuma not given  
him incorrect information. Mr Ms main contention  is that the incorrect information given 
about early settlement disincentivised him from settling  the loan early  as the additional  28 
days interest Satsuma said hed have to pay made the interest  hed save  by settling the loan 
early too little to be worthwhile.
Ive reviewed the new bank statements Mr M provided and am still not persuaded that hed 
likely have settled the loan early in June  instead.  I can see that Mr M made  his contractual  
payment to Satsuma on 17 June  2018  and then borrowed  a larger  sum from another  high-
cost lender the following  day. This suggests  he thought (or he knew) hed also suffer  a 
shortfall in income  that month too. If Mr M needed to borrow from another  lender,  despite 
only making his contractual monthly payment to Satsuma, it follows  hed have needed to 
borrow even more elsewhere if hed settled his entire loan with Satsuma. This would likely 
offset any benefit from settling the Satsuma loan early and so Im not persuaded Mr M 
wouldve followed this course of action.
So, as when  I made my provisional decision, Im still not persuaded theres evidence of a 
financial loss as a result of the incorrect settlement quote provided  by Satsuma in May 2018  
as, on balance, I dont  think  Mr M wouldve settled this loan early,  had he been given the 
correct information  by Satsuma. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I do not uphold this complaint 
against Provident Personal Credit  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN27942793COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M says Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading  as Satsuma) unfairly  applied an early  settlement 
charge (ESC) when he wanted to repay a loan early.
background
Mr M took out a £900  loan with Satsuma on 21 April 2018. The loan had a contractual  term of three 
months, with three equal  payments of £422.80  due in each month and a total repayment amount of 
£1,328.40.
Satsumas notes show Mr M enquired about  settling  the loan early on 10 May 2018, 19 days after it 
commenced. Satsuma provided Mr M with a settlement balance, including the ESC, of £1,131.16.  Mr 
M wasnt happy with this and made a complaint, which Satsuma rejected.
An adjudicator considered Mr Ms complaint about  the ESC but didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mr M 
didnt agree  with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
I think  there are two key issues to address in this complaint:
was Satsuma entitled  to apply an ESC?  And if not;
did Mr M suffer a financial loss as a result  of Satsuma including an ESC in its settlement 
calculation?
was Satsuma  entitled to apply an ESC?
Satsuma says that under  the Consumer  Credit (Early Settlement)  Regulations 2004 it is allowed to 
charge a fee for early settlement. It also says the fee it charged Mr M was calculated in line with these 
regulations.
I do not doubt  that regulations exist which  permit  Satsuma, in general  terms,  to charge  additional 
interest for early settlement   so long as it does so fairly and in line with the relevant  regulations. But I 
do not think Satsuma was fairly entitled to charge Mr M additional interest for early settlement,  given  
the specific  facts in his complaint.
Satsuma was obliged1 to inform Mr M that he had the right to fully or partially settle his loan early. The 
exact wording isnt prescribed; the regulations simply  say, A statement that the debtor has the right to 
repay the credit early  at any time in full or partially  should be included in a Standard European 
Consumer Credit  Information (SECCI) document before the loan contract  is entered in to.
This pre-contractual  information would  usually be mirrored in the loan agreement. Ive not seen Mr 
Ms SECCI document, so I dont know  what was disclosed to him before  he entered into the loan 
agreement with Satsuma  but Ill assume the relevant  pre-contractual  information was phrased 
similarly to the loan agreement.
1The Consumer Credit (Disclosure  of Information) Regulations  2010.
Ref: DRN27942794In addition to the above, Satsuma was obliged to include in the SECCI document  information  about  
how its compensation for early settlement (i.e. the additional interest)  would be calculated. This same  
information would then normally also be found in the loan agreement.
So in short, if Satsuma wanted to fairly charge  Mr M a settlement fee in line with the Consumer Credit  
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004, I think it needed to disclose this to 
Mr M before he entered into the contract  and it also needed to set out this same  information in the 
loan agreement.
Ive read Mr Ms loan agreement carefully  and nowhere  does it say that Satsuma  was entitled to 
charge a fee for early settlement. Under the Early  Repayment heading it says:
You have the right at any time to make early repayment in full or in part. To do so, you should first 
give us notice.  The payment should be made before the end of the period of 
28 days, beginning with the day following the day that we receive your notice,  or on or before any 
later date specified in your notice.
So Mr Ms loan agreement is silent on the issue of ESCs  and simply says Mr M had the right to 
repay the loan in full at any time. Given this, I think  Mr M was entitled to repay his loan without the 28 
days of additional interest Satsuma added to the early settlement figure. 
I note that there  is a contrast between this loan agreement  and other loan agreements Mr M had with 
Satsuma. A later loan agreement says the following under  the Early  Repayment heading:
You have the right at any time to make early repayment to settle the loan fully or in part. To do so, 
you should first give us notice. When you notify us that you want  to settle your Satsuma  Loan early, 
we will give you a settlement  quote  so you know how much  you need to pay in total. This will be valid 
for 28 days. The amount  you need  to pay to settle your account will include interest calculated to 
cover this 28 day period  in which the quote is valid.  This amount is payable even  where you settle the 
loan immediately. This is in accordance with the provisions  of the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004.
The loan agreement I am considering contains none of the text Ive underlined above.
So I am currently planning to conclude Satsuma was not entitled to charge Mr M the ESC it included 
in his settlement figure on 10 May 2018.
did Mr M suffer a financial  loss as a result  of Satsuma including an ESC in its calculations?
Mr M didnt actually settle his loan early, so didnt pay the ESC. But Mr M says that, with the ESC 
included in the settlement  balance, he didnt  want to settle the loan early  as there was little benefit,  
and so he paid the interest for the full three-month term.
Mr M may therefore have  lost out financially because Satsuma provided a settlement figure which 
included an ESC it wasnt entitled  to charge  causing Mr M to keep the loan for longer than he 
otherwise would have.
I therefore  need  to decide whether Mr M would still have settled the loan early  had he been given a 
lower, correct settlement  figure.
I think  the £1,131.16 settlement figure quoted by Satsuma is not likely to be significantly higher than 
the correct figure, without  the additional  28 days  interest   I dont think  the difference would be more 
than about 10%.
I asked Mr M to provide a bank statement  for the relevant  month,  to see if he had the means  to settle 
the loan early.  I can see that Mr M received a salary payment of £1,700 on 17 May. This took his 
current account from near its overdraft limit into credit. 
Ref: DRN27942795But by 11 June, Mr Ms account was close to its overdraft limit again  and this was without making a 
substantial payment to Satsuma to settle  the loan early. Mr M only sent me a redacted bank 
statement but from what  I can see Mr M made multiple payments  to other payday lenders  in that 
month, which are unlikely to have been optional. If Mr M made  a large  payment to Satsuma to settle 
that loan,  its difficult to see how he could  also have made all of these  other payments without having  
to borrow again.
So from what  Ive seen so far, Im not satisfied  I have enough to conclude Mr M was actually in a 
position to settle the loan early. I accept  he made the enquiry, but I dont think this is sufficient  to 
conclude he had the means to make a payment to Satsuma of around £1,000. Given  this, I dont think  
Mr M has lost out as a result of Satsumas mistake.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above  I am not planning to uphold  this complaint against Provident Personal 
Credit Limited.
Ref: DRN2794279