K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy about the quality of a vehicle he received, and financed,  through  Close  
Brothers Limited (Close Brothers). He believes the faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply  and the car was therefore  of unsatisfactory  quality. He also complains that 
the dealership  have  been rude in their dealings with him.
background 
I provided my provisional decision  on this complaint  in May 2019. I explained why I was 
planning to uphold Mr Bs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr B took receipt of a used vehicle in February 2018. He financed  the deal through a 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  The car had completed 87,000 miles at the 
point of supply  and was first registered  in 2011.
But Mr B had problems  with the car. He said within the first six months he had to return  it to 
the dealership  on five occasions. They re-gassed  the air conditioning over a couple of visits; 
replaced an Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) sensor;  and renewed  injectors  on two 
occasions when  the vehicle had gone into limp mode. He complained  to Close Brothers at 
the time,  and the dealership carried out repairs to all of these issues without charge.
But in November 2018 Mr B complained to Close Brothers once more. He told them hed like 
to reject the car as the engine management light had illuminated  and it had entered limp 
mode again. The car  was recovered  and the breakdown service noted it had now completed 
92,459 miles; 5,459 since Mr B took receipt of it nine months earlier. A diagnostic  confirmed 
that a further injector had failed and an engine management unit would need  replacing.
But Close Brothers  refused to allow Mr B to reject  the vehicle. They  said the fault he was 
reporting had happened after nine months,  and as hed not demonstrated the fault was 
present when he received the car, they werent responsible for resolving the issue.
But Mr B disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service,  where  our investigator 
provided his view. He explained that he couldnt  look into Mr Bs allegations  that the 
dealership had been rude. But he thought Close Brothers should  allow  Mr B to reject  the 
vehicle as there had been  several issues reported  in the first six months  of use, that were 
performance or safety-related. He explained that he wouldnt expect a car of that age to be 
fault-free, but Mr B should be able to drive it. He noted that in Close  Brothers final response 
they had upheld Mr Bs complaint but had offered to repair the fault. But he said these  
repairs had been  unsuccessful so they should  now allow Mr B to terminate his agreement; 
return the car and Mr Bs deposit; and also return any monthly payments for the period when  
the car had been off the road.
Mr B agreed with the investigator but Close Brothers  didnt. They said it was for Mr B to 
prove the most  recent fault had been there  from the beginning  and they didnt think  hed 
been able to do that. And as the car was now working properly they thought rejection would 
be an unreasonable course of action. They asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN22853162my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear  this vehicle was faulty when supplied and as repairs  havent  resolved the 
issues, I agree that it would be fair for Close Brothers to allow  Mr B to reject  it. I know that 
will be disappointing  for them so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
complaints about  the dealership
I can see that Mr B has been  upset  with the service  hes received from the dealership. But I 
cant consider their actions here as theyre  not related  to the finance agreement with Close  
Brothers. If Mr B still has concerns he should first address them  directly  to the dealership.  If 
he remains dissatisfied he can subsequently  refer his complaint to the Motor  Ombudsman at 
www.themotorombudsman.org
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr B acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. In the first 
instance the law would  allow them an opportunity  to repair any issue that occurred within  the 
first six months but thereafter, rejection would often be appropriate. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for its 
condition at the point of supply, they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
The car Mr B financed was not new. It had completed 87,000  miles and was about seven 
years old when the finance arrangement  was put in place. Ive thought about what  this 
means in these circumstances, but whilst I accept that it wouldnt be reasonable to expect a 
car of that age and mileage to be fault-free;  I do think  a reasonable person would expect to 
be able to drive it without entering into limp mode  on a frequent  basis.  And I think  the 
number of issues Mr B has experienced with the car in the first few months  was excessive. 
The documentation  here hasnt been comprehensive. Ive considered whether to ask for 
further details  but have  decided this isnt necessary and wouldnt assist.  Its clear theres 
been a breakdown in communication between Mr B and the dealership  and evidence  of the 
faults has been limited.  But I have seen  corroborated evidence of faults  within the first six 
months, as follows:
two injectors were  replaced during two separate visits
the air conditioning  needed attention
an ABS sensor was replaced
Ref: DRN22853163Ive also noted  Close Brothers references  to a cam shaft sensor failure and a problem with 
an Electronic Distribution  System (EDS) sensor.
In August  Close Brothers wrote to Mr B. They explained that they understood he wanted  to 
reject the car but they were entitled,  by law, to have an opportunity  to repair  the fault. 
They explained that the fault Mr B was experiencing was that the car was entering limp 
mode. So I think its reasonable  to suggest  this referred to a repair that was necessary on 
one of the two injectors theyd already repaired.
But in October  of the same year Mr B was experiencing a similar problem. The car was 
entering limp mode again and the diagnostic  said a further injector needed  replacing  and an 
engine management  unit had failed.
So its clear that, despite  Mr B referring  his car to them on several occasions because  of 
injection problems, and Close Brothers endeavouring to repair  the issue,  the repair has not 
been successful.  And in these circumstances I think it would be fair to allow Mr B to reject 
the car.
The relevant  legislation  also tells us that, when we consider  satisfactory quality, we should  
consider whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably durable. And here, I dont think that 
can be the case. Mr B has had to return the car on at least  six occasions. There  have been 
issues with the ABS sensor; air conditioning; three  injectors and an engine management 
unit. Ive also seen comments on Close Brothers system notes, that the cam sensor has 
failed and that there were problems with an Electronic Distribution Service  (EDS) sensor.  
I can also see that Mr B has covered considerably  less than average mileage in the car and I 
think that would also support  a view he hasnt  had reasonable use out of it,  and it hasnt 
proven suitably durable. 
So I think Mr B should  be allowed  to reject the car because its clear it wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply and repairs that have  been carried out have not resolved the issues. 
the redress
So, to this point  I agree with the investigators  view, but I think  he could have  gone  further  
when considering how to put things right for Mr B.
The investigator has suggested that Close Brothers refund instalments for the period when 
Mr B was without the vehicle. Hes left it for the business to explore this with Mr B. But given 
the breakdown  in communication thats happened between  Mr B and the dealership, it may 
be difficult for Mr B or Close  Brothers  to agree on how long this period was. 
I think its clear  the most recent problem Mr B complained of in October 2018 wasnt  
resolved until January  2019. So Im expecting  to ask Close Brothers to refund three finance 
instalments for October,  November and December 2018. 
Ive also noted  that Mr B has been  inconvenienced by this issue. He asked Close  Brothers if 
he could reject the car in August 2018  because of a problem with the injector  and I can see 
that repairs to an injector  had already  been carried out on the car at that stage. It seems 
likely that rejection should have been  approved earlier and I think  Mr B has been  
inconvenienced as a result. Im therefore expecting to ask Close Brothers  to pay him £200  
compensation in recognition of this. 
Ref: DRN22853164my provisional decision
I expect to ask Close  Brothers to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
return Mr Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
return the monthly  instalments Mr B has paid to his finance  agreement for October, 
November and December 2018  and add 8% simple interest  per annum  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced 
as a result of these  issues;  and
remove any adverse credit records theyve made  to Mr Es credit file as a result of this issue
Close Brothers didnt  have anything to add and Mr B accepted my decision. But Mr B also 
asked me to consider asking Close Brothers  to reimburse the cost of a service completed in 
January 2019  and to consider the payments hed made to Close Brothers recently.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that the costs of the service Mr B incurred in January this year should be 
refunded by Close Brothers. A complete service record  is a contractual obligation and Mr B 
was still required to keep  the car in the requisite  condition. The car is, Im told, now working 
correctly so I dont think  this cost is one Mr B couldve avoided and not one I think  Close 
Brothers is fairly responsible for.
And, as the car is working satisfactorily  now, I think its fair that Mr B pays  for the use he has 
from it and continues to pay his finance instalments until this complaint is settled - as hes 
now getting fair use from the car the agreement finances. Id expect Close Brothers  to settle  
this matter quickly now but if they dont they will be paying interest on some aspects of this 
redress that Im sure theyd prefer to avoid.
So my provisional decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr B;
return Mr Bs deposit and add 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
return the monthly  instalments Mr B has paid to his finance  agreement for October, 
November and December 2018  and add 8% simple interest  per annum  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN22853165pay Mr B £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced 
as a result of these  issues;  and
remove any adverse credit records theyve made  to Mr Es credit file as a result of this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2285316