K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  irresponsibly  gave  him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background
Mr Lender gave Mr D 2 loans. The first was taken  out in May 2013 for £400 and was 
repayable in one instalment of ££540. Mr D rolled  over this loan on 3 occasions before it was 
repaid. Mr D took out his second loan in January 2016 which was repayable in 6 monthly  
instalments.
Mr D says that proportionate checks werent carried out before the loans were provided.  He 
says if these had taken place Mr Lender would  have realised  he was reliant on short  term 
loans and that the loans  werent affordable for him.
Mr Lender says that before the loans  were provided it carried out through  affordability and 
credit checks. It verified Mr Ds employment  and says based on the information  it gathered  
the lending was affordable. It pointed out that there was a significant  gap between loans 1 
and 2 and rolling over a loan is not a sign of difficulty or reliance on credit.
Our adjudicator thought that there  wasnt enough to say that loan 2 shouldnt have been 
provided given  the gap in borrowing  and the repayments. However, he thought that the 
repayment of loan 1 was significant proportion of Mr Ds income and it was unlikely that he 
would be able to repay this loan without borrowing further. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view and said that the repayment was 40% of 
Mr Ds net salary, not half as set out by the adjudicator. It said that the rollovers provided 
flexibility and the fact that Mr D didnt borrow again  for a significant period of time suggested 
that the loan was affordable. Mr Lender asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr D could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN22201352the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loan two should not have  
been provided. I have  looked at the information gathered, including  income information from 
the time,  and I agree that there  isnt enough  to say Mr Lender should not have provided this 
loan to Mr D. It was a new chain of borrowing and there was no reason to doubt  what Mr D 
was saying about his finances. The repayments looked affordable on the figures that were 
given and Mr Lender checked Mr Ds outgoings  which included other short term lending.
Looking at loan 1, although there was no lending history, the repayment for loan 1 was £540. 
This was a significant  proportion of Mr Ds declared income of £1340. It is just over 40%.I 
think that in order  to check whether this loan was sustainable  for Mr D, Mr Lender should 
have undertaken  a more thorough check of his circumstances. I think  Mr Lender  should have 
taken steps to verify what Mr D was saying about his financial circumstances and in 
particular ask about his expenses to check he could afford such  a significant repayment.  
I can see that Mr Lender did check Mr Ds expenses for the second loan in January 16. Mr D 
declared that he had outgoings of £1132. This is around 73% of his declared income of 
£1550. If his expenses were  at a similar percentage in 2013 then the loan would not have 
been affordable.  I think it is likely that had Mr Lender carried out more  robust  checking  of 
Mr Ds circumstances for this loan it would have seen that Mr D wasnt able to sustainably 
make the repayment  for this loan. The fact that Mr D asked to defer the repayment on this 
loan on 3 occasions further suggests that the loan was unaffordable and he couldnt afford  to 
repay it out of his normal income.
So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loan 1.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Ref: DRN22201353A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards interest, fees and 
charges on loan 1, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr D originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all adverse entries  from Mr Ds credit  file for loan 1. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and PDL Finance Limited (trading as 
Mr Lender) should  put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2220135