K822xcomplaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Gain Capital UK Limited (trading as City Index) unfairly  adjusted  
two of his trades,  resulting in a negative balance (and debt) in his trading account.
background 
The relevant  trades  took place on 5 February  2018 and the adjustments were applied  eight 
days later.  Mr C transacted in over 170 trades  on the same date, between 14:30  and 22:30  
GMT. Within them were the two relevant  trades  a spread bet Wall Street  position  closed  at 
the price of 24,413.7  at 20:10:30  GMT (T1) and another spread bet Wall Street position 
closed at the price  of 23,707.8 at 20:14:20  GMT (T2).
City Index explains the event as follows:
On 7 February 2018 it identified that a pricing misquote affected all Wall Street trades 
on its platform approximately between 20:00 and 20:30 GMT on 5 February  2018.  It 
investigated the matter further,  reconfirmed the pricing misquote with reference to 
and comparisons with external prices  at the relevant time and then, on 13 February 
2018, it notified Mr C about the matter.
The pricing misquote  resulted from an erroneous price  feed from its external liquidity 
provider(s). It occurred around  the same  time as Mr Cs two trades were opened and 
closed and it affected their respective prices  the opening price of T1 and the 
closing price of T2. The adjustments  to those trades  prices were required to reflect  
the accurate prices.  The pricing  misquote was a manifest error and section 14 of the 
terms for the account, as agreed by Mr C, permitted it to make such  an adjustment.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and drew the same  conclusions as City Index  
for the same reasons.  He referred to independent  historic pricing  data for the relevant date 
and time period and mainly considered that there  were significant gaps between the platform 
prices for the two trades and the market prices    gaps of 265 pips related to the T1 trade 
and 627 pips related to the T2 trade;  that these misquotes in the platform  prices amounted to 
manifest errors as defined  in City Indexs terms; and that the price  errors could have been 
noticeable to Mr C at the time given that the platform prices mismatched the market prices  
markedly. He also did not consider it unreasonable for City Index to have taken  eight days  to 
notify Mr C about the matter, given that it had to investigate the error after identifying  it.
The investigator reviewed  the matter  of City Indexs corrective  action  and considered 
whether it was (or was not) fair for it to have adjusted Mr Cs trades, as opposed to declaring 
them void (which the terms also permitted it to do). He concluded that the trades should 
have been declared void, instead of being adjusted  (as City Index did). City Index  agreed  to 
void the trades.
Mr C disagrees  with the investigator. He rejects  the suggestion that he would or should have 
noticed a pricing  error and he stresses that the relevant date was a very busy trading day  
with volatile market  conditions  for him, during which  he was fully engaged in manging 
many ongoing  trades and was dependent solely on the platforms  prices; he did not have the 
time (or cause) to explore  other (external) prices; so he did not and could not have had the 
opportunity to notice  a discrepancy between the platform and market prices.  
In the main,  Mr C considers it inherently  unfair that he should  be left with a negative  balance 
from the two trades even  though they were made in good faith,  without any knowledge on 
Ref: DRN26029462his part that the prices  were erroneous and without any grounds to say such errors were  or 
should have been apparent to him. He challenges  the notion  of him paying  a penalty for 
another partys  pricing error. The investigator  was not persuaded to change his view and the 
matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as those  given by the investigator  City Index was contractually entitled to 
regard the relevant prices for the two trades as manifest errors and a fair outcome is for it to 
substitute voidance  of the two trades  for the adjustments it previously applied.
The key determination  in this complaint relates  to section  14 of the terms agreed by both 
parties and its application  to the facts of the case.  This section says, in the main,  as follows:
That a manifest error is  an error,  omission or misquote  which by fault of either 
of us or any third party is materially  and clearly incorrect when  taking into account 
market conditions and quotes in Markets  or Underlying Instruments which prevailed 
at the time. It may include an incorrect price 
That in the event of a manifest error City Index is entitled to act  reasonably  and in 
good faith  to void, close or amend a trade affected by it; and it will take such 
action as soon  as reasonably practicable  after identifying the manifest error.
That in the absence of fraud, wilful  deceit  or negligence  City Index takes no 
responsibility for an account holders loss resulting  from a manifest error.
As the investigator  explained in his view, there  is sufficient and reliable  evidence  of the 
discrepancies between the prices  for the two trades and the market prices that were relevant  
to them  at the time. Irrespective of whether (or not) the trades were  made in good faith, the 
terms above applied  to them because each trade was based on an incorrect price at the 
relevant time(s), taking  into account  evidence of the market quotes  that City Index and the 
investigator have referred to, and because the misquote in each trade  was materially and 
clearly incorrect .
The sizes  of the differences in pips  as mentioned above  between  the trade and the 
market prices are significant  and they support the conclusion that the misquotes were 
material. The same  applies to the conclusion that the trade prices were  clearly incorrect. I 
appreciate Mr Cs position in this matter. I have noted his strength of feeling about having to 
pay a financial penalty for an error he did not commit and one he says he was not aware of. 
Unfortunately for him, the terms  he agreed  within section 14 do not require him to have been 
the source of the manifest error  and do not require him to have been aware of it. The terms 
apply for manifest  errors caused by him or by City Index or by any third party  and in this 
case it appears that the error was caused by City Indexs third party  liquidity provider.
Like the investigator, I have considered whether  City Indexs reaction in adjusting the trades  
was reasonable  and in good faith. I do not consider that it was. I agree with the point the 
investigator made about this in his revised view. Without evidence  of  and without certainty 
about  how Mr C would have managed the two trades (including whether (or not) he would 
have entered  or exited from either of them when each was entered/exited) if they had been 
based on the correct prices  I consider  it unfair to impose adjustments  that have that very 
effect. That is, the effect of defining what Mr C would  have  done  with the trades,  based  on 
Ref: DRN26029463the correct prices, without  evidence  in support. For this reason, I conclude that a fair 
outcome is for City Index  to void the two trades  and I note it has agreed to do so.
I have not seen evidence of fraud, wilful deceit or negligence by City Index  in this matter, so 
there does  not appear to be grounds  to hold it responsible for any loss Mr C has incurred as 
a result of the manifest error. Following its identification of the error  on 7 February it 
reasonably embarked upon further investigation  (and verification) of it before reaching a 
conclusion. I consider this a fair approach, in which City Index sought to be sure about  the 
matter before making a declaration  to Mr C  about it. It made that declaration six days 
(four working days)  later and I am not persuaded that this amounted  to an unreasonable 
delay.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  as presented  by Mr C but I have 
given my conclusion  above about  a fair outcome  for it. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2602946