K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2008. 
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life and critical illness cover.  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on. From what  we know  of how Halifax  sold 
PPI, it would normally make clear to customers like Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice to 
take or turn down the cover. 
Mr and Mrs W say they signed where they were told and had no idea it was PPI. Ive thought  
about this carefully.  But apart from what Mr and Mrs W have said,  I dont have anything else 
to make me think Mr and Mrs W agreed  to sign without knowing what they were  agreeing  to. 
Taking into account that Halifax  would normally offer customers  like Mr and Mrs W a choice 
about the PPI, on balance  what Mr and Mrs W have said isnt enough to make  me think  the 
PPI was added without discussion or without  them knowing  they didnt have to take it.
If Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W it had to check  the PPI was right for them. 
And Halifax thinks it did recommend the PPI. So I think  its fair to assess  the complaint on 
that basis, which places  on Halifax a higher level of responsibility for the sale.
The PPI helped protect Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage in case  of disability or unemployment. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the cover was right for 
Mr and Mrs W. For example, they werent  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the 
cover. And from what theyve told us, they wouldve  got only statutory  work  benefits if they 
were made redundant or were too sick to work.  So the PPI benefit  couldve helped at what 
could be a difficult time for Mr and Mrs W in those  situations. And Mr and Mrs W have told us 
they didnt have savings or anything else to fall back on to help pay their mortgage.  With all 
this in mind,  Mr and Mrs W seem  to have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it. And, for the reasons Ive given above, 
it seems like the cover would have been  useful if something went  wrong. Taking everything 
into account, I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W off 
taking the cover.
Ref: DRN26990062Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ws points but, for the reasons Ive given above already, 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of 
the cost of the PPI. Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs W have said about  this, including  
what theyve said about wanting all the commission back. But in the offer Halifax  has made, 
Halifax has chosen to apply FCA rules. I havent seen anything in Mr and Mrs Ws particular  
circumstances or complaint that makes  me think Halifax  should  do something different.  So I 
dont think Halifax needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2699006