K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that MBNA Limited  increased  the minimum repayment amount  on her credit  
card account.
background
Ms G has a credit card with MBNA  and usually  pays more  than the monthly minimum 
repayment amount.  But despite the overpayments,  over an eighteen month period Ms G 
paid more in interest  and charges than she did towards the amount she owed. 
Following policy guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), MBNA told Ms G it 
was going to increase the monthly minimum repayment amount. This was intended to help 
her repay what she owed as quickly as possible.
MBNA said that if Ms G was unhappy  with the change she could close  the account. Ms G 
thought MBNAs  actions  were unfair.
Our investigator didnt  think MBNA had done anything  wrong.  She found that MBNA had 
changed the minimum repayments in line with the FCAs recommendations and the account  
terms and conditions. The investigator was also satisfied that MBNA had given Ms G 
appropriate notice  of the changes, in line with the account terms.
Ms G didnt agree with the investigators conclusions,  so the complaint has been  passed  to 
me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G generally pays at least the minimum amount on her credit card each month,  and in 
many cases  pays  more  than the minimum required.  So I can understand why she might  think  
its unfair for MBNA to increase her minimum repayments. 
But even though Ms G has paid more  than the minimum required,  overall  shes  been paying 
more in interest and charges than she has towards the underlying  debt. 
As the investigator  explained, the FCA now requires businesses  to identify customers  in that 
position, as they are considered to be in persistent debt.  Businesses  must take steps  to help 
those customers repay  what they owe as quickly  as possible. 
The terms that govern  Ms Gs account  say:
18.1 We may make any of the following changes to this agreement  for any of the reasons  
set out in condition 18.2:
change the amount  of your minimum payment or the way we calculate it.
Ref: DRN23359162Condition 18.2 of the terms says:
18.2 The changes referred  to in condition 18.1 may be made for the any of the following 
reasons:
we consider that you are either in persistent debt, or at risk of falling into 
persistent debt, having taken into account the balance and repayments on 
your account over time and the likely  time it would take you to repay  your 
balance in full.
From what  Ive seen of the amounts  Ms G has been  repaying in relation to her overall  
balance, it seems that she is in persistent debt. As such, Im satisfied that MBNA has altered 
her minimum monthly repayments  in line with the account terms. It has also given  her 
appropriate notice  of the change, in line with the terms.
I appreciate why Ms G is unhappy about this. But when  I take account  of the FCAs guidance  
and the terms of the account, Im not persuaded that MBNA has done anything  wrong.  
MBNA has explained that if Ms G doesnt  want to accept the changes,  she can close  her 
account at any time.  I think thats  fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335916