K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Bank of Scotland  PLC (trading as Halifax)  allowed his contact details for all 
his accounts within the same  banking group to be changed without his consent.
background 
Mr W and his partner went to a mortgage broker to look into getting a mortgage.  Following 
his meeting he discovered that his personal  contact details had been changed as a result, 
the bank says, of data inputted by the broker. He found this out because  he received a letter  
from his work related  pension provider (which is part of the same banking  group) telling him 
about his change of address and his partner received an email  to her personal  email  account 
about a loan in his name.
Following Mr W attending  a Halifax branch with identification, his details have now been 
corrected.
Halifax said it had done nothing wrong.  If information was keyed incorrectly by the broker  
and the decision  in principle was submitted this updates the customer  record held with the 
bank. This means  the contact information  would be updated which  is what happened on this 
case. The systems are all linked so any update  would update all the records. It suggested 
Mr W complain to the broker.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  On balance, he thought  it was 
most likely that Mr Ws broker submitted incorrect information. He thought it was fair for the 
bank to assume the information was correct  because Mr W had given permission for the 
broker to represent  him. As the bank had no reason to believe the data was incorrect,  he 
didnt think it was fair for him to say the bank  had made a mistake here.
Mr W disagreed.  He said he didnt give anyone permission to change  his details. He felt 
Halifax should have  some sort of security process  that Halifax  must undertake to ask him if 
the details are correct.
The investigator explained that brokers are required to verify the identity of their client before 
submitting the data to the lender. The broker represents their client,  meaning the information 
they submit is treated  as information provided by the client.
my provisional decision
I didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions  so I issued a provisional  decision. Before I 
did I said I wanted to make clear that I was only making a decision about the bank. I was 
making no finding about the actions of the broker.
I understood Mr Ws concern. I thought the bank was entitled to assume  that the broker  was 
acting with his authority  in relation to the mortgage  application and was providing accurate 
information. But the brokers authority was limited to that process. The broker should not 
have been able to access or change any of the consumers existing accounts with that 
business or group. Nor should information  supplied  for the purposes of a mortgage enquiry 
have the effect  of changing Mr Ws contact details across the whole  group  unless  it was 
made clear to him it would have this effect.  As I had seen nothing  to suggest this was the 
case I intended to uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN25400822Mr W was put to some inconvenience  by having to change his details back. He had also said 
that his partner received an email about his loan. I said I would listen  to what  Mr W had to 
say about whether this caused  him embarrassment. At the time of my provisional decision 
my thoughts were this would have caused minor  irritation as  given they were  applying for a 
mortgage together  his partner probably  already knew about the loan.
Overall  subject to the comments of both parties  I intend  to award Mr W £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr W provided evidence of the address being  changed to show  the extent of the distress 
caused and the time wasted to bring about  a resolution. He did say he accepted  the 
compensation set out in the provisional  decision.
Halifax accepted  the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W still feels let down by Halifax and wants it to understand the level of 
distress caused to him and the time taken to resolve the issue. I think  Halifax  is now aware  
of this.
Mr W has accepted the compensation set out in my provisional decision and I think the 
compensation and reasoning behind that decision  which Halifax has accepted  - remain  
correct and so I confirm it here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland PLC (trading as Halifax) 
to pay Mr W £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Nicola Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2540082