K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains on behalf  of a housing management company, referred in this decision as 
W, that Amtrust Europe Limited have unfairly declined  her claim for a defective  roof at the 
property.
background
W is the management  company  for a block of 14 flats.  The flats are covered by a buildings 
warranty provided by Amtrust.
In 2016 Mrs N became  a director of W. At this time some of the residents made her aware of 
some problems they had been experiencing with the flats.  Some said that when it rained, 
excess water containing  debris was cascading down their windows leaving stains. Another 
resident also raised a problem with a leak in his bathroom that he had first discovered in 
2012 and was having to reseal every  year since.
Following these complaints, Mrs N instructed a roofing specialist to come  and inspect the 
roof of the building. The specialist said that the problems were  caused by the defective roof 
at the property that wasnt allowing  water  to drain  correctly. 
Mrs N, on behalf of W, raised a claim under the warranty. The claim was made  under section 
3.3 of the policy,  which  covers  the structural insurance period. 
Amtrust declined the claim. It said that section 3.3 only applies to defects that are discovered 
and notified during the relevant period. Which for Ws policy was from 6 May 2014 to 
6 May 2021.  It said as problems had been  identified as early as 2012, then this was 
identified during the previous sections  cover,  and only notified during  the relevant period. 
Therefore the cover  didnt apply.
Mrs N didnt think this was fair. She said they had only realised there was a problem with the 
roof when the specialist examined  it. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld.  He 
said he didnt think Amtrust had fairly declined the claim and recommended it considers the 
claim in line with the other terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs N accepted this opinion. However Amtrust didnt agree. It said that the flat with the 
leaking bathroom reported it to the managing  agent  at the time in 2012 and it was their 
responsibility to inform the resident  that it could be due to a defective roof. It asked for the 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust has declined Mrs Ns claim on behalf  of W because it says the defect needed to be 
discovered and reported  during the same period of cover for it to apply. 
Under Section  3.3 in the policy  it states as follows:
Ref: DRN27857752The Underwriter will indemnify the Policyholder against all claims  discovered  and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period
So I can see that a defect should be discovered  and notified  within  the relevant period to be 
covered. In this case the period under which  section 3.3 cover  is provided is 6 May 2014  to 6 
May 2021. This is the period in which the defect was notified  to Amtrust.
However, Amtrust says as one flat had been experiencing a leak in their bathroom that was 
caused by the defective  roof, and this was discovered in 2012,  then the defect was 
discovered under policy section 3.2 cover and only notified under  3.3.
I have considered this and I dont think this is a fair application of the policy. Ill explain  why.
The policy wording says that cover is provided  for  all claims discovered and notified to 
the Underwriter during the Structural Insurance Period. The definition of when a claim is 
discovered isnt explained  in the policy. So I have considered a fair interpretation  of this. I 
think this would be the point when a need  to claim under the policy  is discovered. In this 
case the claim is for a defective roof. So it would be fair to say the need for a claim was 
discovered when  the roof was found to be defective.
Although the owner of the flat with the leak in their bathroom did discover  the problem in 
2012. The root cause  of this problem clearly  wasnt  discovered or rectified as he has been  
sealing the leak each  year since. So I dont think it is fair to say that this was the time when 
the need to claim  for a defective roof was discovered. A relatively small leak in one 
bathroom, wouldnt reasonably suggest the whole roof of a building  was defective. So I think  
its reasonable that the owner of the flat didnt suspect this or take further  action outside  of 
fixing the problem  in his own bathroom.  The fact that this is the only action he took, further 
suggests that this wasnt  the point the defective  roof  and therefore  claim  was discovered.
Amtrust says that the leak in the bathroom was reported to the managing  agent  at the time, 
so it would have  been their responsibility to flag to the owner that this could indicate a defect 
with the property and there may be a need to claim. At this time, this advice  was not given  to 
the owner. It is my role to consider whether Amtrust  has handled the claim fairly. And not to 
assess the actions  of the previous managing agent. As a possible defect wasnt  flagged  at 
the time,  I think it is reasonable that the owner  wasnt aware of a need to claim for a 
defective roof.
Once Mrs N became a director  of W in 2016, complaints from a number of different flats 
were raised regarding water drainage. Based on these she instructed an expert to examine 
the roof. The expert suggested  this was due to the defective design  of the roof. This was 
supported by a further report produced in 2017 by a surveyor. It was at this point that the 
defects with the roof were first discovered and the repairs needed were identified.  First by a 
roofer in 2016  and this was confirmed  in 2017  by a surveyor.  I think  it was therefore  
reasonable that 2016 was the first point when  a need to claim for a defective roof was 
discovered. Before this point, although there  were  issues with individual  flats, I dont think  it 
is reasonable to say that a need to claim due to a defective roof had been identified. The 
claim was then made to Amtrust in 2017.  As  the period covered by sections  3.3 of the policy 
is 6 May 2014 to 6 May 2021, I think it is reasonable to say the claim was discovered  and 
notified in the same policy period.
I therefore think it is fair and reasonable for Amtrust to consider the claim under section 3.3 
of the policy  in line with the other  policy terms.  
Ref: DRN27857753my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require Amtrust  Europe Limited to consider Mrs Ns claim on behalf  
of W, under section 3.3 of the policy, in line with other policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N on behalf  of 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  6 June 2020
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2785775