K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained Nationwide Building  Society  closed his account.
background
Mr E had tried to use his Nationwide  online  banking service  in February 2019. He found he 
couldnt. Nationwide told him this was because of a fraudulent payment. He thought this 
must be the payment hed already referred to them as fraudulent.
In a phone  conversation Mr E was told his account had been suspended. He wasnt  sure 
whether this meant he could still use his account  to maintain regular payments. Nationwide  
then confirmed his account was being closed. This took place on 25 February  2019.
Mr E later found Nationwide had been notified by another bank that Mr Es account  had 
received £70 after the other banks customers account had been compromised. He knew  
which payment this was and was able to confirm  to Nationwide this had been  a mistake.
Nationwide would do no further. Mr E brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. Nationwide shared information about the £70 
payment that was in dispute. They believed this fell into the exceptional circumstances  which 
allowed them to close Mr Es account  immediately. Our investigator didnt agree. She noted 
Mr E had repaid  the £70 disputed payment. Nationwide  had also repaid it to the other bank  
almost immediately. Even after having reviewed Nationwides customer notes  she didnt 
believe Nationwide had enough reason for closing Mr Es account almost  immediately.
She asked  Nationwide to pay Mr E £150 for the inconvenience; refund £70 (plus 8% simple 
interest); and make  sure that any information recorded with fraud industry database was only 
visible to Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt agree  with this outcome. They  also provided  additional  information  to this 
service about Mr Es use of his account.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to our investigator. Ill explain why.
Our investigator provided a detailed run-down of what  had happened  in her view of 
27 November 2019. I dont intend to repeat what  she said there  but Id like to reassure both 
Nationwide and Mr E Ive reviewed the case thoroughly.
Firstly banks  under their terms and conditions  can decide  to close  customers accounts. 
If they wish to do this immediately, they must  have reasons for this. In this case  Nationwide  
has relied upon what their terms and conditions state:
We may close your account immediately in exceptional circumstances. These might include 
a legal obligation to close the account or threatening or abusive  behaviour  towards our staff.
Ref: DRN20769992Nationwide has told us and Mr E the closure was around a disputed payment for £70. But I 
cant see they ever gave Mr E an opportunity to explain what may have happened before 
they took the decision to close his account. In fact when Mr E was aware  of the 
circumstances, he presented a plausible reason for what happened, along with evidence. 
But this didnt happen until after the account  was closed.
Nationwide has subsequently provided  us with other  information. They believe this shows 
they have justifiable  concerns about the way Mr E conducts his account. Specifically theyd 
questioned him about whether he was using his personal account for business activity. This 
was contrary to the terms and conditions of the account. Mr E denied  this in discussion with 
Nationwide but I appreciate why Nationwide may have  remained unsure this was the truth.
I can see there are certainly a lot of transactions into and out of the account. More than Id 
expect to see for normal personal  usage. Nationwide had also seen other  fraud claims on 
Mr Es account.
So I can see why Nationwide may have decided under the terms and conditions to terminate 
Mr Es account facilities. However  I still dont  believe  even  taking into account what theyve 
provided  there is sufficient evidence of exceptional circumstances.
Nationwide can also decide  they wont want to give Mr E account facilities  in the future. To 
do this they may need to record this. But Ive not seen anything which shows they can record  
this and make this visible to other account providers  or lenders.
Our investigator decided  Nationwide  should  pay Mr E £150 for the inconvenience caused  by 
shutting his account without providing a longer notice period. Hed inevitably had to sort out 
other facilities within a short period.  He was also concerned that the other Nationwide 
products would also be terminated.  Even though this turned out not to be the case I can see 
this caused him some  inconvenience. This could have been  avoided if longer notice, in line 
with the terms and conditions, had been  given. I agree £150 seems fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Nationwide never  seemed  to have told Mr E theyd  refunded £70 to the other bank as soon 
as theyd been notified. This meant  that as Mr E knew the other party  and what  had 
caused the error  he also refunded him. He needs to have this rectified  as well.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Nationwide Building Society to:
Ensure any information  theyve recorded on industry fraud databases about Mr E 
remains visible to them alone;
Refund Mr E £70 for the transaction which I can see both he and Nationwide repaid;
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 4 March  2019 until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay him £150 for the inconvenience of closing his account with limited notice.
Ref: DRN20769993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2076999