K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice that he received in 1997  from National Westminster 
Bank Plc (referred to from now on as NatWest) to transfer the value of his deferred pension  
benefits in respect  of two periods of service from a former employers Occupational Pension 
Scheme (OPS) into an Executive Pension Plan (EPP) and into an Approved Pension Plan 
(APP).
In addition  Mr H has complained about  the subsequent  transfer of the EPP arrangement to a 
stakeholder pension plan with a new provider that he states he did not authorise.
background
In 1997 Mr H was advised  by NatWest  to transfer  the value of his accrued pension  benefits 
in a former  employers OPS to the EPP of his new employer. As the EPP could not accept 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  benefits this part had to be transferred to a separate 
arrangement (an APP).  The part of the transfer representing the excess  over the GMP 
benefit was transferred into the EPP.
Mr H was advised that, after transfer,  the benefits  from the arrangements  would  
depend on future investment returns and annuity  rates available at retirement. 
NatWest determined that the transfer would need to grow at a rate of 8.72 % to match  
the benefits that would have been provided by the former scheme on retirement  at the 
Normal Retirement Date.
At the time of advice  NatWest would allow transfers to go ahead where the required 
rates of future growth were below 11.5%.
In 2007 the employer where Mr H worked  ceased  trading and there  was a requirement 
for the company backed EPP to be closed. At that time the benefits  that were  held in 
the EPP had to be moved into an individual  pension arrangement for Mr H.
NatWest did try to contact Mr H and ask what he wanted to do with his benefits in the 
EPP that was being wound up. However  as NatWest received no reply it automatically  
transferred the value  of his benefits  in the EPP to a stakeholder pension plan with 
NatWest Life.
On 25 November 2010 an independent firm of actuaries checked  the critical yield 
calculations that had been carried out previously for NatWest Life. It found a number of minor 
errors in the calculation  and concluded  that the critical yield based  on retirement at age 60 
would have been 8.02%.  It also noted that if allowance was made for the equalisation of 
retirement ages between men and women that the critical yield increased to 8.55%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
It is important  in cases such  as this to look at the situation at the time of advice and not to 
use the benefit of hindsight.  
Ref: DRN24045102NatWest had determined  that the critical yield based on the transfer value being offered was 
8.72% and it considered that this was an achievable  rate of return to assume in the future. 
Indeed it assumed that a future return of up to 11.5% would be acceptable to allow  a transfer 
to go ahead.
I note that as part of the industrywide pension review that had been set up the regulator 
issued rates of future assumed growth  that should  be used by pension providers when 
carrying out the required redress calculations. These rates  of return varied both over time 
and over term to retirement.  For the circumstances of this case  the regulator stated that an 
investment return of 8.9% should be assumed. 
The critical yield on the transfer value offered was determined initially as 8.72% but this was 
later corrected after a number of minor errors had been found to have been  made  in the 
initial calculations. The revised figure  was 8.55%.
It was also noted  that the maximum rate of return that the business  would allow  was not 
11.5% but 10.25%. As the critical yield was below the maximum that the business would 
allow it considered  that the advice to transfer  was appropriate.
The rate of returns set down by the regulator  for determining redress  in the circumstances of 
this case at the time was 8.9%. I therefore  consider that at the time that Mr H was advised  to 
transfer the critical yield of 8.72% would have  appeared to be acceptable.
In my opinion as Mr H was recorded as having a balanced attitude to risk the advice to 
transfer would have been considered reasonable.
Mr H asked an independent  actuary  to look at the figures that had been produced by 
NatWest. The actuary  used the assumed  rates of investment return set down by the 
Financial Services Authority in November 1998 in FSA Bulletin 1. The actuary then 
estimated the return that would have used  as at 31 October 1997 (a year earlier)  using the 
change in ten year gilt yields over the period.
Using this approximate method the actuary estimated that the return set down by the 
regulator would have been  around  7.9%. In fact the rate that would have been used as at  
31 October 1997 was actually 8.7%.  As the critical yield of 8.55% was below this NatWest 
stated that the advice  to transfer  had not been inappropriate at the time of the advice  to 
transfer and I agree.
Finally I note that at the time of advice to transfer  in 1997 the regulator required that pension 
providers issue illustrations of projected benefits on assumed growth  rates of 6%, 9% and 
12%. So the required rate of growth  on the transfer  to match the benefits  that would have 
been provided by the OPS was below  the mid-point figure of 9%. In my opinion this would 
also have indicated that the advice  to transfer  was not unreasonable.  
It is clearly disappointing  that the investment returns since  the time of transfer have been 
lower than was anticipated.  It is this fact combined  with the fact that the annuity  rates 
available to secure benefits on retirement are much  more expensive than was expected  that 
has meant that the outcome after the transfer has been worse than expected.  This however 
could not be anticipated at the time of advice.
Ref: DRN24045103I note that Mr H has complained that he has been  transferred  into policies without his 
agreement. However,  as I have explained  above,  the reasons for the transfers that took 
place were entirely reasonable and I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint and I make no award.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  National Westminster Bank  Plc and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before                                     .
 
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2404510