complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about damage their home insurer  Legal & General
Insurance Limited (L&G)  did to their home  whilst repairing it following a water leak.
background
There was a leak in July 2016. L&G accepted the claim and Mr and Mrs H had to move  out in 
October 2016 for repairs to be done. They were  due to move back home  in March 2017, this 
had to be delayed into April 2017. The family moved  back  home but had some  snagging  
issues, including the kitchen floor which had been  damaged by L&Gs  contractor. These were 
mostly resolved (excluding the floor and a kitchen  cupboard door)  but only over a prolonged 
period.
In a final response in April 2018 L&G said it would continue working to resolve the floor and 
offered a total of £1,000 for the upset caused. Mr and Mrs H complained to us. They  told us in 
September 2018 that there was still a problem with the kitchen  floor and the cupboard door.
Our adjudicator said that to negate the need for replacing the floor, and to make up for upset 
caused by other failures, L&G should  pay Mr and Mrs H a total of £2,500. L&G didnt reply. 
Mr and Mrs H said they did want the kitchen floor replacing  they shouldnt have to live with it 
as it is. The complaint was passed  for an ombudsmans decision to be made.
In February 2019,  whilst their complaint awaited a decision, Mr and Mrs H had further  contact 
from L&Gs loss adjuster. It had assessed  recent repairs  carried  out to the floor to fix the 
damage L&Gs contractor  had caused. It said it was happy that the latest repair was 
performing  as expected. It had noted  a report from Mr and Mrs Hs tiler about a further repair 
but didnt think  such was possible or necessary. Regarding the cupboard  it said it agreed in 
principle to replacing the door.
The complaint was passed  to me and I asked Mr and Mrs H for any evidence to show  what  it 
might cost to replace their kitchen floor. They were  unable  to get quotes for this work or to 
show what it had cost them to fit the floor originally. I also asked L&G for proof  of what  it had 
cost it to remove and re-fit the kitchen and lay the floor during the initial works. It didnt  respond  
to our enquiries. 
I issued a provisional decision as I felt L&G should replace the floor.  I also felt that L&G should 
pay a further £300  compensation to Mr and Mrs H to account for the upset theyd been 
caused.  Both parties agreed with my findings.  Mr and Mrs H asked me to provide confirmation 
as to the extent  of L&Gs liability regarding  replacing  the floor. They  also confirmed they didnt 
incur a cost for their tilers report and that the cupboard door hadnt been replaced.
As both parties have  agreed to my provisional  findings, they are now the findings of this my 
final decision, and theyre set out below. Additionally, Ive provided  the clarification 
Mr and Mrs H have requested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Ref: DRN2731876My background above is quite  brief. But I have taken everything that happened into account. 
In terms of compensation for distress and inconvenience I can see that L&G has paid or 
offered £1,000 for upset it caused up to April 2018.  Im not minded to make it pay more than 
that. However, the issues have continued since then and Im now considering  what happened 
from the point of that response  up until the February 2019 email. The parties will note my 
information in this respect is somewhat  limited  so if either wants  to provide more in response to 
these provisional  findings they can do.
L&G has accepted it damaged the kitchen floor. So any activity from the April response  
onwards to do with resolving the floor would all have been unnecessary if L&G hadnt caused  
damage. I can see there were likely several meetings and on-going  correspondence.  I can also 
see that Mr and Mrs H were put to the trouble of getting their own report. As time and the issue  
continued I think  they likely got more  and more frustrated. And they were  living  with the 
damage every day, which according to what Ive seen meant there  was more cleaning  
required. There was also the aggravation of the kitchen cupboard door not being resolved.  
I think a further £300 compensation for all of this is warranted.
Mr and Mrs H said the £1,000 wasnt received, and L&G confirmed this. Ill now require that 
total compensation of £1,300 is paid. As stated  provisionally, this is to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs H were caused as a result of L&Gs failures up until February  2019.   
My provisional findings continued:
L&Gs February email doesnt  satisfy me that it has reinstated the floor.  I note Mr and Mr Hs 
comments about how it marks  too easily and that the only way to avoid/resolve  the markings is 
to keep buffing it. Im satisfied from what they say that this wasnt the nature of the floor they 
had before L&Gs contractor damaged it. And the fact that the repair is performing as 
expected doesnt confirm in any way that the floor has been  reinstated  to how it was before 
L&G damaged it. Therefore, I think it fairly has to replace  it or pay Mr and Mrs H to have that 
done. But without any detail as to costs  I can only make an order for that. I cant require any 
specific sums to be paid. 
Mr and Mrs H asked what replacing  would mean  what L&G would have to do or pay for. 
They wanted  to know that it would include:
A. Removal & storage of furniture in the relevant rooms and subsequent return
B. Removal & storage  of kitchen & utility room fitted units  and worktops & appliances
C. Removal of tiles
D. Like-for-like replacement of tiles
E. Fitting of tiles by tiler specialising in limestone flooring
F. Sealing of tiles by specialist in limestone flooring
G. Re-installation  of fitted kitchen & utility  room units, worktops and plumbed appliances
H. Replacement or making-good of any accidental damage to kitchen/utility  units or worktops
I. Making good of any decor damaged during the work
J. Costs of our alternative accommodation during the work.
I think the things  listed  here would all naturally form part of the floor replacement.  Where the 
removed items are stored  would be for the loss adjuster to decide.  But L&G will need  to ensure 
that all items  are appropriately cared  for so as to ensure no damage is caused. At least  for the 
period the home is uninhabitable L&G will have to provide or pay for Mr and Mrs H to live 
elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs H also asked what would happen if L&G settled the claim in cash. They said they 
couldnt pay for everything upfront  out of their own pocket. They wanted to know  if L&G would 
Ref: DRN2731876need to cover the cost of any loan they arranged and whether it could refuse to provide the 
settlement awarded.
The floor needs  replacing due to damage L&G caused. So it is up to L&G to resolve that by 
completing a satisfactory replacement. Its told me it is starting the process of arranging that 
work. I mentioned payment provisionally in case Mr and Mrs H wanted a cash settlement to 
resolve their complaint.  Payment at Mr and Mrs Hs request though  would end L&Gs liability, 
and mean  it would only have to settle based  on what it would cost it to carry out that work.  If 
Mr and Mrs H were to ask for a cash  settlement L&G wouldnt need to wait for invoices for 
work before making payment because it would be paying based on its costs. But it could 
withhold VAT until such is shown to have been  incurred.  Mr and Mrs H would likely have to pay 
for their cost to live elsewhere  upfront and reclaim it back from L&G afterwards. Theyd  be best 
to get agreement on what L&G would be willing to pay before committing  themselves to the 
cost. That all being the case, I wouldnt require  L&G to cover the cost of any loan.
Im aware that L&G is already making  arrangements to carry out my awards. But, for 
completeness, if Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision within the deadline set, L&G will be 
bound to abide by it. If Mr and Mrs H think it isnt complying with my decision they could look to 
take action to enforce it. Theyd need to take legal advice in that respect.
My provisional findings continued:
I note Mr and Mrs Hs tilers report is said to refer to the possibility of a further repair. I note 
L&G thinks that repair isnt possible. I think the time has now passed for further  repairs,  
especially as the parties  cant  agree on what can or should be done. And I couldnt  reasonably  
hold L&G to carrying out a repair that it doesnt think will work. If Mr and Mrs H would rather go 
down the route of trying a further repair their tiler would have to do what he suggested but that 
would make things  tricky  going forwards if that repair isnt successful. So, at this stage, Im not 
recommending further repair.
If Mr and Mrs H paid for their tilers report and can show me this, Ill likely make L&G
reimburse it. Ill likely make it add interest. 
Having now seen the report I think it does leave some doubt as to whether the suggested 
repair would most likely resolve the problem. Im still satisfied replacement of the floor is the 
most appropriate course of action. As Mr and Mrs H have confirmed that they didnt incur  any 
cost for their report, I wont require L&G to pay them anything in this respect.
My provisional findings continued:
The parties should  tell me what has happened regarding  the cupboard/cupboard  door.  If this 
repair is outstanding  then Ill likely make L&G complete it or pay for it when it replaces or pays 
for the floor to be replaced. 
Both confirmed the door hasnt been replaced.  L&G said it would arrange  to do this alongside 
replacing the flooring.
Ref: DRN2731876K821x#15my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to:
pay Mr and Mrs H £1,300 compensation.
replace or, at their choice, pay Mr and Mrs H to replace the kitchen floor and cupboard 
door.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2731876