K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the delay and loss caused  by Barclays Bank UK PLC in transferring
his cash and investments  to a new provider.
background
Mr W complained  there was an unreasonable delay in transferring his cash and investments
to a new provider  following  the closure  of his Pension Trader Account. He said hed issued
instructions to transfer his investment before the deadline set but Barclays didnt seem to
realise and had restricted his account.  When he complained he was given various dates by
which he would get replies but these were not met. While  he accepted the transfer of his
funds and shares would take some time there  was no reason for delay in transferring his
over £80,000 in cash. He said that being unable to deal with his investment for a lengthy
period was stressful. His pension was his only source of income  and it was stressful  to be
left in limbo.
Barclays said it wrote to Mr W in May and June saying it was no longer offering Pension
Trader Accounts. It said if it didnt receive  instructions by the end of July 2017  it would  begin
the process of closing  the account.  It wrote again  in mid August 2017 to say that it hadnt
received any instructions  so his account  was now restricted. It accepted there had been
delay due to the large  volume  of work  and apologised. It offered £150 to compensate  for this 
and later increased the offer to a total of £300.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this case. I said it was clear that there was significant delay 
in the transfer  of Mr Ws investments and cash following the closure  of his Pension Trader  
Account. Barclays accepted that they werent  able to provide the level of service  desired due 
to the volume  of work  experienced  on closing all such accounts.
I therefore needed to consider what loss has been caused by that failure and the appropriate
amount of any award for distress and inconvenience.
It was clear that apart  from any cash Mr W remained invested  in the market during the time
taken to transfer. So it doesnt seem  that he suffered due to being out of the market. It was
also possible  to trade over the telephone.  I note Mr W didnt do this because he said he
didnt have confidence it could be done. But I cant make an award for a loss that he hasnt
suffered. Mr W hasnt  provided evidence to show he intended to make  any investment
changes or new investments nor copies of any financial advice to do so. So it doesnt seem
there was any loss on his investments.
However Mr W said the cash  held in his account  wouldve received interest  at a rate of
0.55% per annum from his new provider. That would  equate  to broadly £95 of lost interest
during the longest period  of delay Mr W has stated. He maintains  he should be awarded
interest at the rate of 8% per annum simple which would give an award of circa  £1,300  for
the period of delay. This is the rate that this service would use where there is lost use of
money. However that rate wouldnt  be applied  where it is clear  what the actual loss has
been, as is the case  here. So I think it would be fair and reasonable to make  an award for
lost interest of £95.
Mr W doesnt feel that the offer of £300  in total for distress and inconvenience is fair.
Ref: DRN21299892However this service cannot  punish the business. So while  the delay was due to Barclays
error, it is the impact  on Mr W that I need to consider.  Mr W said this is his only source of
income. I can understand that it wouldve been stressful  and inconvenient waiting for the
transfer to be completed. On balance I think that an award of £300 is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances. I say that because while frustrating  his money remained invested in the
market and he doesnt seem to have suffered financial loss apart from the lost interest nor
does he suggest  he was deprived of any income  during  the period of delay.
I proposed to uphold  this complaint and direct that Barclays Bank UK PLC should  pay Mr W
£95 for lost interest  and a total of £300 (including any payments made  to date)  for distress
and inconvenience.
Mr W said he didnt  think the compensation was as much as he felt was warranted for the 
uncertainty, stress  and incompetence. He felt large organisations were able to get away with 
such behaviour  regardless of the impact  on consumer such as him.
Barclays agreed to my proposed direction.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have not changed my 
mind.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr W
£95 for lost interest  and a total of £300 (including any payments made  to date)  for distress
and inconvenience.
Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we 
tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2129989