K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  lent to him irresponsibly.
Uncle Buck  Finance LLP used  to trade  as Unclebuck Limited which  was within this 
services formal jurisdiction from 6 April 2007.  My reference to the respondent as Uncle  Buck 
in this decision will encompass all earlier versions and trading names for ease. 
background and findings
I issued a provisional decision in relation to all outstanding aspects of this complaint on 
18 December 2019. It is attached to this final decision  and its background section sets out a 
lengthy summary of the position. I explained  that I thought we could look at the complaint 
and that I was planning to uphold Mr S complaint in part. 
Mr S has said he is content with it and Uncle Buck has agreed  to pay Mr S the redress.  So, it 
seems that both parties agree,  so I see no reason to alter the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. So, for the reasons set out in detail in my provisional decision and here,  
I uphold Mr S complaint  in part. 
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do  if not done  already
refund  the rollover charges (and any interest  associated with them) applied  on and 
after 31 July 2008; and 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ordinarily Id direct that Uncle Buck removes any negative payment  information about those 
rollovers for Loan 3 from Mr S credit file, but it was paid off so long ago that it will not appear 
on Mr S credit file now and therefore  there  is no need to make any amendments. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part and Uncle Buck  Finance LLP needs 
to do as I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 10 February  2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
my provisional decision issued 18 December 2019
background to complaint
Mr S had three loans with top-ups. Using an Uncle Buck Statement of Account sent to Mr S in 
December 2016 I have created a loan table which  is a brief summary.
Loan Date Amount Original repay 
amount Rollovers Final amount 
repaid
1* 11 April 2007 £100 £130 2 £190
gap in lending
Ref: DRN262582822 28 January 
2008£150 £195 1 Refinanced into 
Loan 3
3 18 April 2008 £100+ £325 7 £850
Repaid 28 
November 2008
*There is evidence from Uncle Buck that Mr S applied  for and then cancelled  a loan on 10 April 2007. 
And there is evidence that Mr S applied for a loan on 24 September 2012 for £150 and Uncle Buck  
declined his application. 
Loan 1 was repaid in late June 2007. There was a seven month gap between  Loans 1 and 2 which 
I address in the body of this provisional decision. 
There is a history to this complaint and most  of the facts are relevant to the decisions I need  to make. 
So, I set out here a brief chronology. The dates are as accurate  as possible.
2007 and 2008 Mr S takes the loans  with Uncle  Buck.
24 September 2012 declined application.
Late 2016 Mr S has explained he found a website  which focussed on payday 
loan issues and that prompted him to complain.
9 December 2016 Mr S receives  a Statement of Account from Uncle  Buck.
19 December 2016 Uncle Buck sent to Mr S its final response letter  (FRL) which states:  
Please be advised that because your loans were  approved  and repaid  in excess of six years ago, we 
are not obliged  to investigate your complaint.
20 December 2016 Mr S referred his complaint to this service.
January and February 2017 An adjudicator  did not think we could look at this 
complaint. 
4 July 2018 We wrote to Uncle Buck again and content to proceed.
6 July 2018 Uncle Buck said it had few, if any, records.
August 2018  Mr S sent to us the Statement of Account  hed got.
5 September 2019 First opinion  from our adjudicator on the merits.
17 September 2019 Uncle Buck rejects the outcome and says that Mr S referred his 
complaint to this service more than six months from the FRL date. 
And Uncle Buck said that Mr S complaint was out of time on the 
other rules surrounding the 6 and 3 years time limits. 
7 October 2019 Evidence of satisfactory and in-time referral to this 
service on 20 December 2016  sent to Uncle Buck. 
5 November 2019 Formal jurisdiction opinion dealing with all points.  And his 
conclusions were:  
I am satisfied  that the enclosed records show [Mr S] confirmed his complaint in time. So, in my view,  
we can consider the complaint in regards  to the six months objection.
and 
So as far as I can see, although [Mr S] has complained about his loans  more than six
years after they were taken out, he complained  about all of the loans within  the three year
part of the time limit.
Uncle Buck did not agree about the conclusions on jurisdiction and took issue with the adjudicators 
opinion on the merits of the complaint. 
The complaint remains unresolved in relation to each of these elements  and was passed to me for a 
decision. As the adjudicators opinion  of 5 September 2019 has been sent, and as this complaint has 
a long history  already, then I have made a pragmatic  decision to address all elements: jurisdiction and 
merits. 
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN26258283I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  what  I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general  approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry  
practice - on our website. It has leading decisions in relation to the approach we take on whether we 
can look at complaints or not. 
the relevant time limits
When looking  at a compliant, the time limits I must consider and which I have to apply are those  set 
out in DISP 2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  Handbook. The particular rule thats relevant 
here is DISP 2.8.
DISP 2.8.2 says:  The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service:
(1)   more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its final 
response, redress determination or summary resolution  communication; or
(2) more than:
(a)six years after the event  complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware  (or ought  reasonably to 
have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent  or to the Ombudsman within that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received; 
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure  to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP 
2.8.7 R was as a result of exceptional circumstances; or
(4) the Ombudsman is required to do so by the Ombudsman Transitional Order; or
(5) the respondent has consented to the Ombudsman considering the complaint  where the time limits  
in DISP 2.8.2 R or DISP  2.8.7 R have expired (but this does not apply to a relevant complaint  within 
the meaning  of section  404B(3) of the Act).
is this a complaint this service can consider?
Mr S complaint is about loans he took out between April 2007 and April 2008.  Uncle Buck  takes 
several points  on the timing  and the application  of DISP 2.8.2. 
Uncle Buck says that Mr S referred his complaint  here more than 6 months after its final response 
letter (FRL) and so we are not able to look at it under  DISP 2.8.2 (1). 
Uncle Buck is also saying  that Mr S has complained to it out of time meaning it received his complaint 
more than six years after the event hes complaining about. So, Mr S is out of time under DISP 2.8.2 
(2) (a). 
Having looked at the screenshots  of the evidence which  has already been sent to Uncle  Buck by our 
adjudicator, then I am satisfied that Mr S brought his complaint, initially,  in December 2016. As such, 
it registered with us for the purposes of the six month  part of the DISP rules quoted above DISP 
2.8.2 (1). And so, I think Mr S did bring  it within six months  of the FRL and that part of the time rules 
has been made out. 
And looking at the Statement of Account  Uncle Buck sent to Mr S when he asked for it in December 
2016, then it seems to be the case, on the evidence I have at the moment, that Mr S first loan was 
applied for and approved  in April 2007. So, bringing the complaint in December 2016 does lead me to 
provisionally conclude  that Mr S was out of time on the six year rule part of the DISP rules 2.8.2 
(2)(a).
Ref: DRN26258284But although  Mr S has complained more  than six years  after the event  hes now complaining  about, 
this isnt the end of the matter. 
There are two parts to the three-year limb of the time limit. Theres a subjective part, which relates to 
Mr S himself  - i.e. was he aware he had cause to complain? And theres  also an objective part. For 
that part the approach to take is whether a reasonable person  looking at the circumstances from an 
objective perspective would think that he should really have known he had reason to complain.
Mr S complaint will still have been made on time if he has complained within three years of when he 
became aware, or ought to have become aware, of his cause for complaint: DISP  2.8.2 (2) (b). So, 
Ive considered when Mr S was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware,  he had cause to 
complain.
I think  that for Mr S to have  been aware, or for it to be the case  that he ought reasonably to have been 
aware, of his cause for complaint, it would have to be the case that he was aware,  or ought  
reasonably to have been aware, of three things:
othat there was a problem  in this case his loans were  unaffordable;
othat his unaffordable loans caused him loss; and
othat Uncle  Bucks  actions (or its failure  to act) may have caused the loss.
I dont think Mr S was aware,  or ought to have been aware, that he could have raised a complaint  
about irresponsible lending at the time he took out his loans. Its possible that at this point Mr S would 
have known that the loans  were unaffordable in the ordinary meaning  of the word. However, I dont 
think this means Mr S was or ought to reasonably have been aware  that Uncle Buck might have been 
responsible for the problem  at these points.
In some instances, it will be reasonably clear to a consumer that a business will (or might)  have some 
responsibility for a particular event. For example,  if a consumer receives advice from a business, 
which they later realise wasnt  good  advice and which  caused them a financial loss, that consumer 
would likely realise (and ought reasonably  to realise) that something had gone wrong and to whom  
they could attach blame.
But equally  its possible (and sometimes perfectly reasonable) in some situations, for a consumer to 
not realise someone else might have some responsibility for their problem until something or 
somebody else made that connection for them.  
I think  thats what happened  here. 
Nothing Mr S has said leads me to believe he was, or should reasonably have been, aware of his 
cause for complaint until someone else made the connection for him in 2016 when he received advice 
from a third party through a website dedicated to payday loans issues. 
Considering Mr S explanation  then I have no reason to disbelieve Mr S and theres  nothing  I have 
seen or been  informed about  that leads me to think that his awareness  did not arise when  he was 
referred to that website in 2016. 
I dont think his difficulty  repaying the loans, in itself, means  he ought  to have necessarily  realised 
Uncle Buck might have done something wrong  when  lending to him.
While Mr S may have  had difficulty repaying his loans, I dont think he ought reasonably to have had 
cause to make this complaint about Uncle Buck at any other stage more  than three years before he 
complained.  
Ref: DRN26258285In the circumstances,  Im satisfied that Mr S raised  his complaint within three years from when he first 
had concerns about Uncle  Bucks decision to lend to him. So, I think his complaint was made  in time 
and this service is able to look at his complaint.
So, my provisional  decision is that I can look at the complaint.
my provisional  findings  on the merits of the complaint
Now that I have made a provisional decision that we can look at the complaint, then normally I would  
pass it to an adjudicator for it to be assessed. But this has already been done  on 5 September 
2019. And, I am aware that Uncle Buck has said that it has no more records to send us as they have 
been deleted in accordance  with the data protection legislation. Therefore I think that I have  most of 
what I may need to make a provisional decision and so I am making  these provisional findings  on 
what I have at the moment.  
the gap in lending
First of all, I need to mention  the gap between Loan 1 and Loan  2. This was seven months after one 
loan and so I think that this means  it would  have  been  reasonable for Uncle Buck  to approach Mr S 
application for Loan  2 as if he was coming  back as a new customer. This was not addressed by our 
adjudicator in September  2019, but I have approached this complaint  with this in mind.
the merits of the complaint considered
In 2007 the regulatory landscape was different  to now. And I have  applied what  we know about that 
time to this complaint.  I appreciate that Uncle Buck will have been correct when it says and the 
irresponsible lending guidance was not in force, so there was no requirement to conduct affordability 
checks as now. 
The Lending Code 2006 was published by a trade body which I have used to give me an insight into 
the approach  lenders  were expected to take in or around 2006. Whether or not Uncle Buck  was a 
member of that trade body  in 2007 is somewhat irrelevant. I am able to think  about  these sort of 
publications as being an indication of market practice at the time. 
That Code does cover personal loans and it refers to some key commitments.  Some  of these  were to:
act fairly,  reasonably and responsibly 
help you when you need information and guidance, including explaining how
the products  will affect  your finances
consider cases of financial difficulty sympathetically  and positively.
Loans 1 and 2
When Mr S first chose  to apply to Uncle Buck,  it had no history of any lending with Mr S and the sum 
he was asking  for was a relatively modest £100. I do not know exactly what it did before approving the 
application for the loan, but my experience tells me that it was likely to have  asked Mr S for some 
information about his income - maybe his expenditure.  And I have thought  about the fact that Mr S will 
have wanted the loan and so its likely that the information he gave  Uncle Buck  for that first 
application was information likely  to have created a positive picture about his situation, such  that 
Uncle Buck would have been content  to approve  the loan.  Overall, I think that its likely  that this 
approval was satisfactory and not likely to have been made without a responsible approach. 
Then there is a gap in lending  from the end of June 2007 to the end of January  2008.  And our usual 
approach for such a long gap where  the lending  relationship up to that point was short was to treat Mr 
S application  for Loan 2 as if he were a new customer again and as a new lending  chain. I have  
referred to this earlier in this provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN26258286I think  that much of what I have said for Loan 1 applies to Loan  2 as it is the first loan in this new 
chain of lending.
I do not plan to uphold Mr S complaint in relation  to Loans 1 or 2. 
Loan 3
From the brief information  I have it seems that Loan 2s outstanding balance  was absorbed into the 
new Loan 3 with some  additional capital  extended to Mr S (about £100).  And the Statement of 
Account I have been given by Mr S (sent to him by Uncle Buck) does indicate  that Loan 2 had been 
rolled over twice in February and in March  2008. So, although this may have prompted Uncle Buck to 
be more  alert to a potential issue, I do not think it would  have been enough to warrant a refusal. 
Especially as Loan 2 was the start of this new loan chain. 
I do not plan to uphold the approval of Loan 3 as it would have been only the second loan in this 
series, and the difficulty Mr S appeared to have had for Loan  2 was not enough to lead me to think it 
ought not to have approved Loan 3. But by the time Mr S had asked for a rollover for the fourth  time in 
or around 31 July 2008, I do think that Uncle Buck ought to have realised that Mr S was struggling  to 
repay it. And in line with the Code  to which I refer above, if financial difficulty  was suspected then 
Uncle Buck ought to have treated him sympathetically and with a positive plan going forward. I dont  
think it did that. And there is a section in the 2006  Code which addresses Difficulties in paying and I 
refer the parties to it. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr S complaint from the 31 July 2008  rollover request. I appreciate the limited 
information I have from both parties and if either wishes  to send me more, if either has it, I will review 
the complaint in the New Year of 2020. 
putting things  right  what I am planning to ask Uncle Buck to do
refund the rollover charges (and any interest associated  with them)  applied on and after 31 
July 2008; and 
pay interest of 8% simple a year*  on any refunded  interest  and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
Ordinarily Id direct  that Uncle Buck removes any negative payment  information about those  rollovers 
for Loan 3 from Mr S credit file, but it was paid off so long ago that it will not appear on Mr S credit 
file now and therefore there is no need to make any amendments. 
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am planning to uphold Mr S complaint  in part and direct that Uncle 
Buck Finance LLP does  as I have outlined above.
I will review this complaint  in the New Year 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
end of provisional decision 
Ref: DRN2625828