K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1989 Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage  during  a branch meeting. At the same  time they 
also took out PPI in Mr Ts sole name  designed to protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mr T couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost £10 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit of £300.
In 1991 Mr and Mrs T borrowed more money  and the PPI policy  benefit increased  by £50. 
The cost went up to £14 a month.
BoS records show the mortgage account ended  in 2006.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said that the evidence showed  BoS gave 
Mr and Mrs T a choice  about PPI and they agreed  to take it out. And there was nothing  to 
indicate the policy was unsuitable  for them.
Mr and Mrs T disagree. In summary  they say they were told their mortgage wouldnt get 
agreed unless  they took out PPI. They say they know they signed the forms, but they were 
young and nave  they didnt think they had a choice in the matter.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Firstly  it doesnt appear to be disputed that this was an advised sale where  BoS 
recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs T. This means BoS had to ensure the policy  was 
right or suitable for them based on their needs and circumstances at the time. And it also 
had to give Mr and Mrs T enough clear and timely  information about the recommended  
cover so they could  decide if they wanted  to go ahead with it. Ive kept this in mind in 
deciding this complaint.
did BoS make it clear to Mr and Mrs T that PPI was optional?
did BoS pressure them to take it out?
I can see this is the key part of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint,  so Ive considered this carefully.
Given the sales of PPI took place many years ago, it is somewhat surprising that BoS still 
has some  of the paperwork from the time.  And this includes Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage and 
further advance  applications together with the PPI applications.
Ref: DRN20111792Looking at the mortgage application from 1989 firstly   here I can see there  was a separate 
section about  PPI, which asked: If you wish to join the scheme enter the amount of monthly  
benefit you require  The amount  of £300 is written here.
In addition Mr T had to complete a separate PPI application, which he signed to agree to 
take out the cover.
For the further borrowing later on in 1991 - Mr T here too completed a separate  PPI 
application form, which recorded the increased  level of benefit  to account for the increased 
overall mortgage cost.  The increased monthly PPI cost is shown  here too. Again Mr T signed  
this application.
Ive listened carefully  to what Mr and Mrs T have said about the mortgage meetings and 
what they say they were  told by BoS.  Ive also taken into account what theyve said about 
being young and nave...  at the time.  But having carefully weighed this up alongside the 
documents and information BoS has provided, Ive not seen enough to support what 
Mr and Mrs T say happened. So I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that Mr and Mrs T 
werent given a choice and/or were pressured  to take out the cover. On balance I think the 
evidence shows BoS gave them the option to take out PPI and they agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
was PPI suitable  for Mr and Mrs T?
did BoS properly inform  them  about the policy?
I accept its possible that BoS might  not have taken  all of the steps it fairly and reasonably 
should have to ensure PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs T  theres not enough  evidence  to 
show what was said and when. But given what theyve  told us about  their circumstances at 
the time,  I dont think it was wrong  of BoS to have  recommended PPI  I think it was 
ultimately suitable for them.  I say this because:
Mr T was eligible   he qualified for the cover.
he was employed  and in good  health, so he wasnt  caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover  for example existing medical conditions or 
unusual employment  circumstances.
Mr T said he had some sick pay (he told us less than three  months worth, but he told 
BoS he had more than six months worth in total) together  with some  savings. He 
also said his partner  was working.  But the PPI wouldve paid out alongside any sick 
pay and for longer  if necessary   up to 24 months for an accident and sickness claim. 
So I dont think Mr Ts sick pay made the policy unsuitable.
In terms of savings  again  I dont think the existence of some savings made PPI 
unsuitable. The policy wouldve allowed Mr T to either  hold back  his savings or put 
them to other use, such as meeting  other ongoing household expenditure, if things 
went wrong. And while Mrs T was working, given they were both contributing  
financially I think they wouldve struggled  if Mr Ts income stopped  for a prolonged 
period of time.
So overall I think PPI was suitable and it wouldve proved useful to Mr and Mrs T if 
things went wrong  it wouldve helped them protect their home.  Id add here that I 
can see Mr T made a number of claims on the policy, so it appears that it worked as 
intended and was of use to them.
Ref: DRN20111793the policy appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make  it unsuitable.
because it was a regular monthly premium  policy,  it couldve been cancelled at any 
time and without penalty.
Looking at the information Mr and Mrs T got  the available evidence doesnt  tell me BoS 
properly informed them. For example I cant see that BoS brought the significant exclusions 
and limitations of cover to their attention in a clear  and timely manner. And I cant see how 
the cost of cover was disclosed at the start - it was however clearly set out later in 1991.
But I find it difficult to believe that Mr and Mrs T wouldve agreed to take out the cover  
without having  at least some idea of the cost.  And given the cost was relatively  insignificant  
at £10 a month,  together with the reasons why I think PPI was suitable for them, Im not 
persuaded that Mr and Mrs T would have arrived at a different decision and declined the 
policy had BoS done anything more   I think theyd have still taken it out.
It therefore follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs T have lost out as a result of taking out PPI 
with their mortgage.
In closing I can see Mr and Mrs T have said they dont understand why this complaint is any 
different to a complaint they made  about  PPI on a loan they took out with BoS, which was 
upheld. But each  case is looked at individually and determined on its own merits. And given I 
dont know the circumstances of that case its not appropriate for me to comment  any further. 
But as far as this particular complaint  is concerned, based on the evidence provided  by both 
parties to the dispute, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint, so I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 October  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2011179