K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) have rejected a claim he 
made to them  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
In 2018 Mr I had some  wardrobes fitted by a company Ill call H. He made payments 
towards the order in May, June and July 2018 using his Nationwide  credit card.
He subsequently made a section 75 claim to Nationwide as he said the work had been 
misrepresented to him. He explained  that when H sent their designer to his property the 
designer suggested an ugly bulkhead could  not be removed and would not create much 
additional space  anyway. This was also confirmed by Hs surveyor. But Mr I later found out 
the bulkhead could have  been taken out and would have created quite a bit of useful space. 
He said that H should have told him the correct  information  and that they have therefore 
misrepresented the agreement.
Nationwide rejected Mr Is claim.  They didnt think there was evidence  the agreement was 
misrepresented and explained  that the merchant  had suggested  the bulkhead could be 
removed but it wasnt  something they would do. They noted  that Mr I had agreed to the 
designers plans  and signed  the installation declaration.
So Mr I referred  his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
didnt dispute  Mr Is explanation of what happened during the visits. He agreed  that there 
may have  been  a conversation where it was agreed  that removal of the bulkhead was 
possible. But he said he was considering  whether Nationwide had been fair when rejecting a 
claim that the goods had been misrepresented and he didnt think this could be the case. He 
explained that the order was for fitted wardrobes and he was satisfied that was what had 
been supplied.
Mr I didnt agree with the investigators view and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr I but Im afraid  I agree with the investigators view of his 
complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
Ref: DRN20522802when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr I made  a claim through them for breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
If Mr I was told something that induced him into entering into a contract  he would not have 
otherwise done,  then I may agree there was some misrepresentation. But here Im not 
persuaded Hs actions led him to enter  into a contract with them. They  told him something 
could not be done. I think that was more likely to lead Mr I into not proceeding with the 
contract. But Mr I decided to continue and I think its clear H then delivered  the work  theyd 
been contracted to deliver and that the credit funded. 
Mr I has said that this was a misrepresentation because if hed known the boxing  could be 
removed he would not have proceeded with the contract that he did. But the credit doesnt 
finance advice  about whats not possible it finances the work completed.  
So I dont  think Nationwide have been  unreasonable here when rejecting Mr Is section 75 
claim as I dont think there was evidence  the agreement was misrepresented. Im therefore 
not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2052280