K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about how Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  treated her when she 
tried to make a balance  transfer. 
background 
Mrs B told us that she wanted to transfer  some  money from her Halifax  credit card account, 
to take advantage of a 0% balance  transfer  offer. But she said that when she tried to do this 
via the telephone, Halifax insisted that she provided her account  number to get through 
security. 
Mrs B told us that she is severely  physically disabled, and bed-bound. She also says she 
has a problem similar to dyslexia, but with numbers rather  than letters.  She says she 
requires someone  with her to correctly identify numbers. So she couldnt  give Halifax  the 
account number.  She asked her carer to help,  but Halifax wouldnt accept the number 
because it could hear someone was prompting Mrs B. So she couldnt do the transfer.
Mrs B said that while she was trying to get this problem resolved with Halifax, it suggested 
that her carer would  need to convince it that shes able to manage her accounts.  Mrs B said 
that was insulting, and that she isnt mentally  incapable. 
Mrs B also said that Halifax has offered an insufficient amount  of compensation. And that 
this didnt even  cover the extra time that her carer was there  to help with this problem. 
Mrs B wants  Halifax to make reasonable adjustments so that she can make transfers from 
her accounts  in future. And she would like more compensation.
Halifax wrote  to Mrs B twice in early  October 2017about  her complaint. The first time, it said 
it wanted to pay her compensation for poor service,  and some money for call costs. The 
second time, it said it didnt think that there  had been a mistake  with the balance transfer that 
shed asked it to make. But it thought  that she had received poor service. So it wanted to pay 
her more compensation because of that. 
Halifax has had a number  of conversations with Mrs B about  this matter. At first, it didnt 
think it could do the balance transfer for her, because that particular offer had expired. And it 
said she hadnt been able to take up the original  balance transfer offer,  because  she was 
unable to pass security. Halifax  said that it has stringent security  procedures in place when 
processing balance  transfers. Those were there to protect both customers and the bank. It 
didnt think that it had discriminated against  Mrs B, because  it had followed its I.D. process. 
Halifax then tried to make  arrangements with Mrs B to set up a balance transfer on her 
account over the phone. Its internal notes show that it was concerned  to ensure  that Mrs B 
was making this balance transfer herself,  and that it could be clear  that she wasnt  being  
influenced by any third party. 
The arrangements  to make this balance transfer  broke down. Mrs B said she thought  that 
Halifax was going  to ring her. Halifax said that the arrangement was that she was going to 
ring it, and it had sent a number to her that she could call. However, Halifax had sent this 
number to the wrong email address. 
Ref: DRN23640682Halifaxs notes also say that Mrs B has been  paid compensation  and call costs. Mrs B has 
told us she has been sent cheques, but hasnt  cashed them. Her statements show that a 
total of £161 was paid into her credit card account  in early October 2017. 
Mrs B was also quite upset by what Halifax was going  to require as part of the transfer. She 
said that Halifax was saying she wasnt mentally competent.  
Mrs Bs complaint to our service has focussed  primarily on the treatment she has received 
from Halifax, and its failure to make reasonable adjustments  for her, rather  than on the 
failure of the balance  transfer.
When Halifax wrote  to our service about  this complaint, at the start of November 2017, it 
said that part of the problem with communicating with Mrs B had been because she had 
been using a different email to the one it had on file for her. It had now resolved that issue.  
Halifax told us Mrs B made a previous complaint with similar issues. At that time it had 
recommended she have either a third party on her account or power of attorney to assist 
her. And it had talked to its disability support team to see if there  were  adjustments it could 
make for her. 
Halifax said that it could  add password verification to Mrs Bs account, but this wouldnt give 
her full access to services to complete transactions. And it could put an indicator of a support  
need onto her file. But it couldnt  offer her an alternative that would mean she didnt have to 
go through security. Halifax was also still willing, at that time, to set up the balance transfer 
that she wanted. 
Mrs B asked Halifax to set up the same arrangement she has with another bank; a named 
point of contact  who deals with her. Halifax said it wasnt able to put that in place for her. 
Our investigator then issued his view on this case.  He said Halifax  does have to try to make 
reasonable adjustments for Mrs B. But it doesnt have to make  its services as accessible  as 
Mrs B would like. He said that there  would always be certain security measures that Mrs B 
would need to clear, and Halifax  has a duty of care to protect its customers'  interests. 
Our investigator said that when Mrs B rang to make  the balance  transfer, he didnt think  that 
Halifax knew about her disability, or that it knew who her carer was. So he didnt think that 
Halifax did anything wrong when it refused to make the transfer  for her on that call. 
Our investigator had listened to all the calls between Mrs B and the Halifax  staff member 
dealing with her concerns.  He said that the issues from the first call, when Mrs B wasnt able 
to make a balance transfer, created  a very sensitive  situation to try to resolve.  
Our investigator didnt  agree that the staff member trying to resolve her concerns was 
suggesting that Mrs B lacked mental capacity. He said he thought that they were  saying that 
Halifax would need to be confident that Mrs B was happy for her carer to give it the required 
figures, and there was no risk of vulnerability  before going through  with the payment.  
Because our investigator didnt think that this was the same as suggesting that Mrs B was 
mentally incapable, he didnt uphold her complaint  on this point. 
Our investigator noted Halifax did email Mrs B a number of times  with the contact details 
shed requested. But it sent these  to the wrong  address. He thought a lot of trouble couldve 
Ref: DRN23640683been avoided  if Halifax had updated Mrs B's email  address when it received her email of 
complaint. 
Because our investigator didnt think Halifax had made a mistake when it wouldnt transfer 
Mrs Bs money on the first call she made,  he thought that it had made  a reasonable offer,  
after she complained,  when it said that it would  still do this now.  Halifax offered to arrange a 
three-way call between Mrs B and her carer; a Halifax manager; and the provider that does 
balance transfers  for Halifax. 
Our investigator said that Halifax should  contact Mrs B to arrange  that call. 
Our investigator also said that Halifax should let Mrs B set up authority for a third party to 
access her account. And it could  also add an indicator of a support need  to her account.
Our investigator said Halifax had already paid Mrs B £161 in recognition  of the poor service  
it had provided, and to cover six hours  of call costs. He said it should also pay Mrs B a 
further £89, to take her total compensation to £250.  He didnt think it would be reasonable to 
ask Halifax to pay Mrs Bs carers costs too. 
Halifax replied to say that it was Mrs Bs responsibility to tell it if her contact details changed. 
It said that it had only updated  her email address for her complaint, and still held her old 
email address as part of the contact details  on her account.
Mrs B thought that any competent examination of a complaint by a bank would include 
checking email details. And she said shed told Halifax that she didnt receive the emails. 
She also said she was quite sure that the call handler who was trying to sort this issue  out 
for her didnt believe that she had the mental capacity to manage her own financial affairs. 
Mrs B also repeated that she was in time to access the balance transfer offer when she 
originally contacted Halifax. And if it hadnt delayed the process, then she wouldve been  
able to benefit from that offer. 
Mrs B thought that instead of relying  on numbers, Halifax should  agree a verbal password 
with her, and that it shouldnt hide behind the need  to protect  her financial safety  as a reason 
not to make  a reasonable adjustment.
Halifax said that it was still able to honour  the interest free offer for her. It wasnt  charging  
her interest then. 
Our investigator spoke  to Mrs B again.  Mrs B repeated that she thought the call handler was 
insinuating that she lacked mental  competence, and she found this offensive.  Mrs B said she 
had named points  of contact at other banks, and she didnt see why Halifax couldnt do this 
for her too. She said that Halifax  hasnt tried to make any adjustments  for her. 
Mrs B said that insisting she has a carer  present  when she makes  a call to Halifax  isnt 
acceptable. She said that would compromise  her financial security.  She also said her carers  
dont want to be around when shes discussing her finances. That can make their position  
very difficult,  which in turn can make  it difficult for Mrs B to get a carer.  
Mrs B didnt agree with our investigators  proposed  resolution on this complaint,  so the case 
was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN23640684I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
Consideration of this complaint had taken a very long time. I was aware  that Mrs B had a 
period of ill-health  during the lifetime of this complaint. 
We provided recordings of calls between  Mrs B and Halifax,  and obtained transcripts  of 
those from Halifax. We then gave  Mrs B an opportunity to consider  those.  
Mrs B told us in July 2018 that Halifax had started  to charge interest on her credit card 
account. 
I understood Mrs B had found finalising her response to us difficult, due to her ill-health.  After  
our service  discussed this issue with her, and explained that this stage  isnt final,  I moved to 
produce this provisional  decision. 
I said I was upholding  this complaint  in part. Thats because I thought Halifax had made 
slightly more mistakes  in this case than our investigator originally found. But on the core 
issue of whether Halifax had to provide  a single point of contact for Mrs B, I didnt think it 
was reasonable  to ask it to do that. I said Id set out why Id reached  these  conclusions.  
the initial, failed,  balance transfer
Mrs Bs complaint to Halifax started  because she wasnt able to make  a balance transfer 
over the phone. Halifax wouldnt  let her proceed, because it could hear someone  prompting 
her. There  were no notes  on Mrs Bs account  to tell the call handler that she was disabled, or 
to explain her support  needs. 
Mrs B told Halifax, as part of this complaint, that she didnt want  everyone there to know 
about her health.  So I thought it was likely that Halifax didnt have permission  to share any 
information about Mrs Bs particular needs  with its call handlers. Because  of that, I didnt 
think Halifax did anything wrong  when it refused to pass Mrs B through  security on that call. 
the later offer of a balance  transfer  
Halifax repeatedly  offered  to set up a three-way  call to make  the balance  transfer  for Mrs B. 
The arrangement to do this broke down in October 2017, so it wasnt  done. But this offer 
was held open for Mrs B for some time after that. It was still open to her in February 2018, 
when our investigator sent his view. I understood that Mrs B didnt feel, at that time, that she 
could ask a carer to deal with this issue in the way that Halifax  was proposing.  I said Id 
return to this point  in more detail below,  when I considered if what  Halifax  had done to 
support Mrs B was reasonable. 
Meantime, I didnt think it was Halifaxs fault that this balance transfer offer had not been  
taken up. That meant  that I didnt think that Halifax had to refund  interest  charged on Mrs Bs 
credit card account, or that it had to honour  that old offer now.  I understood that Halifax  
regularly makes such offers to its customers,  so I said that Mrs B might be able to take up 
such an offer in the future,  if she wanted  to. 
resolving Mrs Bs complaint  timing of calls and sending letters.
Ref: DRN23640685Mrs B was upset that calls to her werent  made at a prearranged time. Id listened  to those 
calls, and I thought that Halifaxs complaint handler  shouldve called Mrs B, or taken calls 
from her, at the prearranged  times.  I thought that it was reasonable  to expect Halifax  to do 
that, given Mrs Bs care needs, particularly that these  calls needed  to take place  when her 
carer was present.  I said Id bear this in mind when I thought about compensation. 
I also thought  that Mrs B needed a substantial  amount of additional  support  to deal with this 
complaint. At least some of that was because Halifax didnt call at the prearranged times. So 
I thought Halifax  should pay for five hours of care, at £15 per hour,  making a total of £75.
I could also hear that Halifax  initially refused to send  communication  to Mrs B by secure 
email. It said it would send letters by post,  although she explained  that she is bed-bound. 
Halifax later decided it could send secure emails  after all (although  Mrs B didnt get most of 
these emailed letters, because of problems with her email address, that I would come onto). 
I didnt think Mrs B should ever have  been told that B was only able to communicate by 
letter. I could understand that she found this obstructive  and upsetting. I said I would bear 
this in mind when I was thinking about compensation in this case.
resolving her complaint   the email  address
Halifax tried to set up a call to make the balance transfer that Mrs B wanted. It said it would 
send her a number that she could call. But Mrs B didnt make  that call. She said later that 
she thought Halifax  was supposed to call her. 
Id listened to the call recordings carefully,  and I was confident that Halifax  wasnt going  to 
call her. But it was supposed  to send  her a number  to ring. And at this time,  Halifax was still 
using an old email address, not the one Mrs B had given it when she made  her complaint. 
So she didnt get that number. If shed  received  the number, then she wouldve been  able to 
make that call, and would also have been reminded that Halifax was expecting her to call it. 
Halifax had told us that it accepted Mrs Bs revised email  address in late 2017.  But it only 
noted that for her complaint. Her account details still included the old address, as she hadnt 
asked for that to be updated. 
Our investigator said many of the problems in this case  couldve been avoided if Halifax had 
checked the email  address it was using  for Mrs B. Mrs B had pointed  out that she had said 
on the phone to Halifax she hadnt  received these emails. But notwithstanding this, Halifax 
continued to use the wrong address for some  time.  
I thought that it wouldve been  better  if Halifax had checked Mrs B's email address earlier, 
particularly as shed  said she wasnt receiving its emails. And I also couldnt hear anything  
on the call that she made,  where she confirmed her email address, that suggested to me she 
didnt want to update all her details  including those for her account. So I thought  Halifax 
shouldve clarified  the issue with Mrs B, and updated that address on her account then. 
I thought that Halifax should now update  the email address  it holds for Mrs B. And I said Id 
bear in mind  that it didnt do that, either when her complaint was made  or when  she gave it 
the new address,  when  I was thinking about compensation in this case. 
resolving Mrs Bs complaint  content  of calls 
Ref: DRN23640686Mrs B was particularly concerned that Halifax had suggested she didnt have capacity to 
manage her own financial  affairs. Id listened  carefully to the calls Mrs B had with Halifax, 
and I didnt think that its complaint handler  ever suggested that. 
I didnt have a detailed assessment of Mrs Bs disability. And Im not a medical professional. 
But I hadnt seen  anything in this case to make me think  that Mrs B lacks  capacity. 
What I did in this case  was to consider very carefully what  Mrs B had told us that she can do. 
Id also considered what she had said to Halifax that she can and cant  do when she was 
discussing with it how to set up a balance transfer.  
Mrs B had told us that she needs someone  to get her through the numeric  passwords  when  
she contacts Halifax, and that she cant give an account number. She also told Halifax when 
it was discussing the amount  of a balance transfer with her, that because of the calculator I 
can work figures with noughts on the end, I cant do exact numbers.  
Mrs B had told both us and Halifax she cant pass security because of the difficulty  she has 
sequencing numbers. So I thought it was reasonable  for Halifax  to assume  she may also 
have difficulty with sequencing numbers at other  points in a transaction.  For instance, in 
confirming exact  amounts  to be transferred, or account numbers to send payments to.
I thought this was why Halifax  was concerned to make sure it isnt responsible  for the 
transactions Mrs B makes, and that whoever is supporting her is someone  that she had 
made clear to Halifax that she trusts.  
Thats not the same as saying that Mrs B isnt competent to understand these transactions, 
and to give instructions.  Thats just saying  that Mrs B seems  to have a specific  support need. 
But I thought it was reasonable for Halifax to say in this case  that the support Mrs B appears 
to need with her banking  would have to come  from someone with an overview of her 
accounts, and isnt something  that Halifax can give. 
Mrs B doesnt have either power of attorney  or third party authority on this account. And she 
had repeatedly stated  that her carer who was then supporting her in making financial 
transactions was not responsible for her financial security. Mrs B herself is. So I thought it 
was also reasonable for Halifax to have said that the support that she was getting, when she 
tried to set up this balance transfer, created a security risk. 
other options for Mrs B
I knew that Mrs B didnt want to grant a power  of attorney to anyone. And I entirely  
understood that. I didnt think it should  be necessary for her to do that. But I did think that 
there were some other options  which I hoped  might enable Mrs B to carry out her banking.  
Mrs B would like to have a named contact at Halifax, who would over time learn what  she 
can and cannot  do, and would support  her to do her banking. Shes told us she has this 
arrangement with other banks. 
Each bank  takes  its own approach to security, and as part of that, makes  its own 
assessment of risk. Our service can then look at what  a bank has done,  and assess whether 
thats fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN23640687I thought, in this case, that Halifax had shown that it reasonably  considered theres a risk to 
Mrs B and to it if she isnt supported by a trusted third party when shes doing  her banking. 
And when  a bank  has demonstrated risk, that makes it difficult  for me to say that it should  
run that risk. I did of course need  to bear in mind Halifaxs duty to make reasonable 
adjustments. But our investigator explained  that this duty might  not get Mrs B the extent  of 
change that she wants. And I didnt think,  even bearing in mind  Halifaxs  duty here, that it 
was fair and reasonable for me to require it to compromise its and Mrs Bs security by 
providing her with a single point of contact. 
I thought there were  other  options  that Halifax had indicated it was happy to explore with 
Mrs B:-
-She may decide to allow Halifax to note her support need on her banking  records.
-She may be able to nominate a third party to help her. 
-She may choose to explore, with support, what Halifaxs banking app can offer.  
I said Id discuss each  of those in turn.
recording a support need
Mrs B allowed  Halifax  to record  her disability only for the purposes of this complaint. She 
asked for a reassurance that this information wouldnt be available  to all and sundry,  and 
Halifax gave that reassurance. That meant  that Halifax didnt have Mrs Bs permission to tell 
its call handlers about her support needs.  
Halifax may not need to tell its call handlers all of the details and the reasons why Mrs B has 
support needs.  But it would  still need her permission just to tell them that she has these 
needs. So I said that Mrs B may like to think about  granting that permission. The information 
would still be confidential to Halifax staff, and could  not be more  widely  shared.
third party mandate
Halifax says it could  set up a third party mandate on Mrs Bs account, which  would allow this 
third party to conduct banking for her. That third party could use telephone  banking to do a 
number of things,  including  getting balance  and transaction information, making payments 
and withdrawals, and transferring  money  between accounts. But, importantly, this third party 
mandate falls short  of giving someone else complete  control over Mrs Bs finances,  in the 
way that a power of attorney would. It would only apply to Mrs Bs account with Halifax. And 
the third party  wouldnt  be able to open  or close the account, change  the account type, name  
or contact  details, or apply for additional borrowing.
Halifax says if a customer wants to set up a third party mandate, then it would need to talk to 
both the customer  and the third party to do that. It would usually book an appointment in 
branch. I thought  it would  be reasonable in this case for branch staff to visit Mrs B at home to 
arrange that, or to conduct the interview  over the phone or through  a video call. 
Mrs B has previously  told us that she doesnt  have a third party that she can trust.  I didnt  
know if that was still the case, but even  if it was, I didnt think  that I could require Halifax  to 
compromise its own security, or her security  because of that. 
Halifaxs banking app
Mrs B said she only uses telephone banking. She wouldnt want to use online banking 
because its number-based. Halifaxs Disability Team says that account numbers, sort codes 
Ref: DRN23640688and card numbers are unfortunately how the financial system works and it was unable  to 
change this, although it said that she could  use voice I.D. when she calls, if she wishes.
The Disability Team has also suggested  that Halifaxs  mobile  app would also be a way of 
reducing the reliance  on numbers. It says fingerprint I.D. can be used to sign in, or if 
memorable information  is used, that can be all letters  (although it appreciates that counting  
them out might be a difficulty for Mrs B). The apps  Click to call feature will get Mrs B from 
the app to a call handler and mean  she doesnt have to complete telephone  security for a 
range of tasks.  And transfers can also be made from the app. (Whilst there are account 
details of payees, she could give each one a name).
Halifax also said that it could send one of its digital  champions to help Ms B set up and use 
the app, if this was a concern. 
Halifax said that if that wouldnt work for her either,  it would keep trying.  But it wouldnt put a 
single point of contact in place for her. 
summarising my provisional decision
Id noted Halifax  had made  a number of mistakes  in this case. I thought it should pay Mrs B 
£350 in compensation for those mistakes, on top of what it had already paid. That would 
mean Mrs B receives a little over £500  in compensation for this complaint.  Id also explained 
why I thought that Halifax should pay for five hours  of care for Mrs B, at a total cost of £75.
But I didnt think that Halifax had to make the balance transfer for Mrs B now.  Id expect  it to 
offer her balance transfers in future as it does to any other comparable customer, and Mrs B 
may choose to take those up. 
I also thought  Halifax had now done  what I would  expect  it to do in terms of trying  to support 
Mrs B. I realised  that the support issue wasnt yet resolved, and I hoped Mrs B and Halifax 
would be able to work  towards a solution. However, I was of the view that Halifax  isnt 
obliged to provide Mrs B with a single point  of contact. I knew  this would be disappointing for 
Mrs B, but I hoped I had clearly explained why I didnt think I could require  this.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties  sent substantive responses,  disagreeing with my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs B broke her response down into three distinct headings. Ill summarise  what  she said 
under each, and then respond.
Halifaxs inability to communicate
Mrs B felt that Halifax had only just started to look for a way through  this issue, and if it had 
done that sooner, then the problem couldve been more easily sorted out. She said she 
hadnt been given access to Halifaxs Disability Team, and compared Halifax unfavourably 
with other  large  organisations she deals  with. 
Ref: DRN23640689She said a major part of the problem was the conflicting messages Halifax issued. It first 
said that the balance transfer would be actioned, but then retracted that, and started 
emailing the wrong  address. 
Mrs B said that Halifax had admitted it was aware  she has disabilities and that she had 
communicated these  to it a few years  previously.  She expected them to act accordingly.  But 
she didnt think that Halifax had recorded  her needs accurately. 
Mrs B said she had no contact number to reach Halifax,  and could still only communicate 
with it through  the CEOs office or our service. 
I think that the Disability Team within Halifax is likely to be a team which  advises Halifax 
internally on how to support its disabled customers.  I dont think that Halifax has to provide 
Mrs B with access  to that team. 
I noted in my provisional decision  that I didnt think that Halifax  had Mrs Bs permission to 
record her disability, and her associated support needs, other  than for the purposes of this 
complaint. Without  her express permission, Halifax couldnt do that. If Halifax  isnt allowed to 
record, other than for very specific and limited  purposes,  the needs  that Mrs B has, then I 
dont think it would be reasonable for me to expect Halifax always  to respond to Mrs B in a 
way which  takes  account of those  needs.
I think Mrs B remains able to contact Halifax directly on the numbers it provides to its 
customers. I have suggested  she consider allowing Halifax to record her support needs, so 
that its customer helplines can be aware  of her needs. I understand that Mrs B currently 
prefers not to do this.
the effect of Halifaxs  attitude and behaviour
Mrs B said Halifax  offered to return the sum of £4,000 that she had recently transferred onto 
her card, but not to make a 0% balance transfer. She said Id noted  that Halifax claimed that 
the call which ended  up not taking place was going  to involve the offer of a 0% transfer, but 
she didnt know that. Mrs B said the first time she was made  aware that Halifax would make 
this offer was in my provisional  decision. 
Mrs B said if Halifax had been using the right e- mail address then both sides  wouldve  been 
fully informed. Its delay  meant that she had missed her window to manage her finances.  
Mrs B noted  Id said her main concern seems to have been  the way in which she was 
treated. She said she had been very shocked  and humiliated by Halifaxs  behaviour. But she 
said shed also suffered from financial hardship  as a direct result  of Halifaxs refusal  to 
honour the balance transfer. She set out the transactions she was planning to make, which  
included a 0% offer with Halifax and one with another bank. But she said that the refusal by 
Halifax to action the balance transfer  during  the time frame in which she could have also 
utilised the other banks  offer totally scuppered the possibility  of making sure she continued 
to benefit from 0% offers.
Mrs B said that this was Halifaxs  fault. So it should return  all the interest it had charged, and 
now provide the 0% balance transfer for 18 months.
Ref: DRN236406810I dont think its right to say that Mrs B couldnt have known, before I wrote to her, that Halifax  
was offering to carry out a 0% balance transfer.  I think it was clear  on the two calls that 
Mrs B had with Halifax on 11 October  2017,  that Halifax was then offering 0% for 12 months. 
I appreciate that the call to action this transfer  didnt go ahead, partly due to confusion  over 
who was supposed  to call whom, and partly  because Mrs B hadnt received the contact 
details she needed.  But our adjudicator noted when he sent his view on this case  to Mrs B, 
in early 2018, that this offer was still available to Mrs B. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  and those above,  I dont think  that Halifax  
has to refund any of the interest  it has charged on Mrs Bs credit  card account.
I also note that Mrs B has told us that not having this offer has caused  her financial hardship. 
Our service considers financial hardship to be an inability to pay priority bills, such as 
heating or water. I havent got further details of Mrs Bs financial situation, or other evidence  
to support what Mrs B has said about this. But if she is in financial hardship, then she may 
wish to discuss that with Halifax.
future reasonable adjustments
Mrs B said that Halifax had made erroneous assumptions regarding her disability  and has 
made no effort to learn what  a reasonable adjustment could look like from her perspective. 
The possibilities  it offered  through our service were  already in existence.
Mrs B said the suggestion to use a third party raised  a clear safeguarding  issue  and was 
therefore not appropriate. Her carer was happy to read out account numbers but refused to 
be involved  in anything  connected with her money,  which is quite correct. She said shes  
legally defined as a vulnerable person  so care has to be taken that no carer puts themselves 
or her in a compromising position where financial abuse could take place. And The Care  Act 
clearly indicates that her dignity and independence should not be compromised. 
Mrs B said that because of what Halifax had done, her previous carer  no longer works  with 
her, as she was very upset by Halifax  putting pressure on her to put either herself  or Mrs B 
in conflict with the legal boundaries under which she as a carer works. 
Mrs B said that if she was to employ someone to oversee her financial affairs it would  have 
to be a qualified  accountant with the insurance required to cover  their duty of care.  This 
person would cost a lot more than £15 per hour.  
Mrs B said Id said she needed someone  to take an overview of her finances and accounts, 
but also said that I believed she was clearly  mentally competent.  Mrs B said I had a letter  
from her GP which was self explanatory, but then I had indicated that she was a risk both to 
herself and to Halifax. Mrs B said she found  this very confusing. She asked me to clarify, 
and to indicate my qualifications for commenting  on these issues.
Mrs B said she was prepared to explore the possibility of using the Halifax  banking  app. She 
said perhaps someone should visit her to explore further. But she said she would appreciate  
our services  continued involvement  until an acceptable  way forwards  had been  established.  
She said that until then,  Halifax was still in the position of discriminating against her.
Mrs B said that in her view, a reasonable adjustment would be to recognise that she only 
has a credit card with Halifax which is used solely for 0% balance transfers which occur once 
Ref: DRN236406811every 18 months or so. She said that if her sensitive  personal data was held by and only 
accessible solely via a couple of named people working in the CEO complaints  department  
(not to persons in a call centre managed by a different company) then these people would 
be direct  employees of Halifax and therefore sufficiently experienced and competent  to 
understand she needed help and was not being  difficult. This would mean her highly 
sensitive personal  information would be secure  and her privacy and dignity would be 
preserved. Her independence would be recognised as then she could pick up the phone and 
make a balance transfer just like everyone  else. 
Mrs B suggested she and Halifax use a verbal password to confirm her identity. She could e- 
mail the amount  to transfer and in a separate e- mail send the number of the account she 
wished to transfer money to. She said she didnt  understand  why this might  be a problem.
Mrs B closed by offering  to talk to me about  her complaint, and also saying that she was 
prepared to discuss her disability with me and take my advice  on what  it would be 
reasonable and appropriate to reveal  to Halifax in order  to clarify the way forwards.
I know the possibilities  that Halifax has offered Mrs B for managing her card account  are 
already in existence. I dont think that something has to be newly created for it to constitute a 
reasonable adjustment. For instance,  Halifax has suggested that Mrs B could use the 
banking app to manage her account,  and that someone might  visit Mrs B at home to set that 
up. I suggest she contacts  Halifax about this, if shed like to take up its offer. 
Mrs B said that the suggestion that her carer be involved in supporting her to manage her 
accounts wasnt appropriate. I think that the concern that Mrs B raises, about  her potential 
vulnerability, is the same concern that Halifax expressed when it was trying to set up the 0% 
balance transfer  for her. Ive said I think that was a reasonable concern for Halifax  to have.
Mrs B also asked what my qualifications  were,  to comment on the risk she posed to Halifax  
and to herself, especially as Id noted that she was clearly competent.  Ive said Im not a 
medical professional.  Im not qualified either to provide  a diagnosis of the risk Mrs B poses, 
or to state that Mrs B is clearly competent. And thats not my role here.
What Ive done in this case  is firstly, to make  the assumptions that mental health law 
requires me to make, which is to start by assuming competence on the part of Mrs B. And 
Ive noted that Ive seen nothing in this case to make me think otherwise. 
Ive then considered  very carefully what Mrs B has told us, and Halifax,  that she can and 
cannot do. Ive considered the conclusions that Halifax  has drawn, from what it has been 
told. And Ive assessed whether I consider, as a layman, that the conclusions  that Halifax  
has drawn, and the way that it has responded, are all reasonable. 
My reasoning on this point, and my conclusions, are set out in detail as part of my 
provisional decision, recorded above under the heading resolving Mrs Bs complaint  
content of calls. Thats still what I think now.
Mrs B has set out what she considers a reasonable adjustment  would be. She suggests a 
small number of people  could have access to her personal data, and provide the specialist 
support to her that she would like. I think this suggestion is broadly similar to the suggestion 
that Mrs B has previously made, of a named point of contact. I set out in my provisional 
decision, under the heading other options for Mrs B, why I didnt think Halifax had to do that. 
Ref: DRN236406812Its not for our service to say what banks  will and wont find acceptable in terms of secure 
communication with them. But I would not be surprised to find that Halifax would have 
concerns about  accepting  instructions  from Mrs B to make large transfers of money from her 
account, on the strength of emails. Those are not a secure form of communication.
Mrs B also said that she wanted  our service to remain involved in this case until a way 
forward was found.  Im sorry to have  to tell Mrs B that we cannot do that. Our service only 
has a remit to consider  complaints which have been considered by the business itself. And, 
although I do think that Halifax let Mrs B down with its initial communications to her, I think 
that it would  be outside the scope of what our service  can consider for me to reach the 
conclusion that Mrs B suggested,  that Halifax is continuing to discriminate against her now.
Mrs B has offered to talk to me, if I would find this helpful. And she also said she would be 
interested in taking my advice on what it would be reasonable and appropriate to reveal to 
Halifax in order to clarify the way forwards. I thank Mrs B for her offer to discuss  the case. 
But I do think I have sufficient evidence  to reach  a decision on this complaint, and that its in 
the interests of both sides to bring  it to a conclusion now. 
I should also note that its not my role, or that of our service, to advise  Mrs B on how much  
she should tell Halifax about her disability.  Ms B has stressed  just how sensitive this 
information is. So that must be a decision for her.
I have considered very carefully all of the additional  points that Mrs B has made. But I 
havent changed my mind. 
I understand that our investigator has spoken to Mrs B recently, and shes  asked further 
questions about  how Halifax  and our service can assist her. Shes  stressed the importance 
of resolving the issue around  arranging transfers. Our investigator has explained to Mrs B 
the limitations on our role. Hes also stressed that Mrs B doesnt need to wait for this 
decision to continue her discussions with Halifax about how it can support her, or to take up 
the offers of help it has made.
Ive also received a response from Halifax. It felt that the recommendation to pay £500 in 
compensation, along with carer costs, was rather excessive. 
Halifax said Id agreed it didnt need to arrange  the balance  transfer,  and Id understood it 
wasnt able to proceed with this when Mrs B first called, because  of its concerns for security. 
Halifax said this was the whole basis for the complaint.
Halifax felt this complaint  had come down to service  issues,  as Id agreed  Halifax had dealt 
with the balance transfer and the security  issue correctly. Halifax  said it was never  its 
intention to cause  any distress and inconvenience  during its calls with Mrs B. And it had 
never indicated  it considered Mrs B was incapable.  But it did have a requirement to identify  
and understand  any customer vulnerability, to allow it to support customers  going forward.
Halifax said that on its call to Mrs B on 31 October  2017 it had asked her to confirm if she 
had received the emails it sent to her, but she was unable to confirm receipt then. And it had 
emailed her in February 2018 to confirm that under the terms of her account  its her 
responsibility to notify it of any changes to contact details. Halifax said that its staff member 
was expected to respond to the email address on its records,  and her main  customer  record  
holds her previous  email  as a point of contact.
Ref: DRN236406813Halifax discussed the confusion over who was supposed to call whom,  to arrange the 
balance transfer.  It said its complaint manager couldve double-checked the email  address 
sooner, and shed  apologised for not calling at the agreed time. It realised on 31 October 
that it was using a different email address to the one Mrs B provided with her complaint. 
Halifax said it had provided everything, in terms of solutions, that it could. Halifax said Id 
agreed it had done  what  was expected and it didnt  have  to provide a single point of contact.  
It asked me to reconsider my award.
I do think that Halifax didnt do anything wrong when  it initially  refused to make this transfer 
for Mrs B, for the reasons Ive set out. But I dont agree that this is all the complaint was 
about, or that it just comes down to service issues. Ive explained I thought that Halifax  
should have realised much earlier that it was using an old email address for Mrs B. Im 
concerned that it is still, now, saying  that her main  customer  record holds her previous email  
as a point of contact.  My provisional decision explains why I think  thats wrong.  
And I need not just to consider what Halifax did, but the impact it had on Mrs B. With that in 
mind, I should say that I also think an apology for missing an agreed call time is not an 
acceptable form of redress  when the customer needs to have a carer available to assist 
them to take the call. I think  not calling at a prearranged  time in these circumstances goes 
beyond poor service. 
For these reasons in particular, but also all those set out in my provisional decision above, I 
still think that Halifax should pay Mrs B the award I outlined in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve this complaint, Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) 
must pay Mrs B an additional £350 in compensation, and £75 for care costs. It must also 
update her email  address on all her banking records.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2364068