K820x#14complaint
Ms L and Mr Vs complaint against Santander UK Plc (Santander)  is that it wont  refund them 
after they were victims of fraud.
background
Ms L and Mr V complain  together about  their joint Santander account, from which they made  
a payment in October 2017 to what turned out to be a fraudulent  business.
On 13 October 2017, while on holiday abroad, Ms L and Mr V attended a presentation 
where they were  persuaded to make a large  purchase for services. Mr V used his joint 
account debit  card to make a chip and PIN payment of £6,301.52.
Four days later, and following return from holiday, Ms L and Mr V had second thoughts. After 
doing some  research, they believed theyd been scammed, and they asked Santander to get 
their money back. 
Santander explained that it couldnt  do this as the transaction itself wasnt  fraudulent.  The 
payment had been made willingly by Mr V, and had been authorised. And it didnt agree that it 
should have queried or intercepted it as an unusual payment, because it was made to Sales,  
which wasnt something it could identify or investigate  further  easily, and also because  none of 
its own security  alerts  had been  triggered.  So it couldnt help Ms L and Mr V.
The couple  remained unhappy, and continued  to pursue Santander  asking it to do a 
chargeback. It eventually did so, some  7-8 weeks after the event  and it was successfully 
defended by the merchant  bank, which was able to prove that the contract that had been 
signed provided that the subscription/payment  was non-refundable. Santander didnt then 
seek an adjudication,  as this is not an automatic  customer  right,  but something a bank can 
use its discretion on  usually only going ahead when theres a good likelihood of success,  
as costs follow a loss. On this occasion, given that the merchant had been able to robustly  
defend the chargeback, Santander  didnt believe it would  succeed at adjudication.
Santander once  again told Ms L and Mr V that it couldnt assist  them  any further.  It 
accepted theyd been victims of a scam, but the chargeback process  had been attempted,  
and had failed,  and it was happy with its decision not to proceed with an adjudication for the 
reasons already given.
Ms L and Mr V still didnt  agree. They strongly believed  that Santander could have avoided 
the fraud by acting  much more quickly to their concerns, and that this delay and lack of 
interest meant that their money hasnt been  recovered. They  said that the business whod 
scammed them had already been  found  liable in the overseas courts, and was deemed  to 
owe its investors thousands of pounds. They believed Santander had a duty to avoid the 
fraud, and thereafter  to ensure they got their money back on the basis  that their contract 
wasnt legally enforceable. 
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaint  came  to this service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters carefully,  seeking further  information  from both parties.  
He concluded  that while it wasnt in dispute  that Ms L and Mr V had been scammed,  he 
didnt think Santander  had a responsibility  to refund them. He explained why, and said he 
thought Santander had done everything hed have expected it to.
Ref: DRN27086472Ms L and Mr V still strongly disagreed. They argued that if all parties, including  Santander, 
agreed that theyd  been scammed, then the contract theyd signed had no legal basis, and 
that this itself should get them a refund. They said they still thought Santander could have  
done more to help them recover their money, and that the delay in raising  the chargeback 
had caused their loss. They also suggested  other  ways Santander could  help them get their 
money back. 
As they remained unsatisfied, they asked  for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to first of all extend my genuine sympathy  for whats  happened to Ms L 
and Mr V. Theyve been cruelly scammed, and have lost a lot of money.  I dont take that lightly.
However, my role isnt to seek justice for this. Thats a job for the court.  Mine is to look at 
Santanders involvement in it, and decide  if I think its treated Ms L and Mr V fairly. 
Im sorry  to tell them that I think it has, and I agree with our Investigator  that we cant  uphold 
this complaint. I know my decision will be deeply  disappointing, and Id like to explain  why I 
think its fair to both parties.
Ms L and Mr V are critical of Santander  in a number of respects. So Ill take these in turn.
Santanders security processes - allowing the payment to go through
They say that had Santander  been  protecting their money, it wouldnt have allowed the 
payment to go through on 13 October 2017.  They say it was an unusually  large  amount of 
money, spent abroad, and this should  have caused  some suspicions/concern. 
But I dont think thats fair or correct. We know the payment was made willingly, using Mr Vs 
chip and PIN. So theres  no question the payment wasnt authorised. On that basis,  under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  and 2017,  this means the customer is responsible for it. 
In addition, I dont  think its fair to say Santander should have noticed a suspicious payment 
and been concerned. The genuine card and PIN were used, and no alerts were  triggered. 
Its not for our service to tell a bank what alerts to have in place as were  not a regulator. 
Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA). 
Finally, on this point, even if Santander had been concerned, we know it would have texted 
Mr V immediately and asked him to confirm the payment was genuine.  And as we know he 
willingly made the payment at the time, and only had a change of mind a few days  later, Im 
persuaded hed have  told it that it was and the payment would still have gone through.
For these reasons, I cant say Santander  should have prevented  the payment being made.
Ref: DRN27086473chargeback and adjudication
Ms L and Mr V have  repeatedly alleged that had Santander acted more quickly  on their 
insistence to run a chargeback, that their money  could  have  been  saved. But I dont agree. 
The money was paid out instantly. So I dont think Santanders delay made  any difference.
The only method it had was to try a chargeback, and it didnt think  this was likely to succeed. 
To explain, chargeback isnt a customer right. Its a process that exists where banks can 
assess their likelihood  of success, based  on chargeback codes/reasons, and then decide  
which cases to pursue. 
Santander did eventually  attempt the chargeback, and it was successfully defended with the 
merchant bank producing all the documentation  showing  what  was agreed,  what was paid 
for, and that the payment was non-refundable.  
So Im satisfied the chargeback attempt was made properly, and that any delay didnt make  
any difference to the outcome. 
In respect of the fact that Santander didnt then seek an adjudication on the chargeback, I 
believe it was its right to do so. Like chargeback itself, an adjudication isnt a customer  right. 
Its decided by a bank on a case-by-case basis, where a bank believes it had a strong case  
of winning. Im satisfied it was within Santanders legitimate discretion whether to take this 
chance or not, and that it had good reasons for not doing so.
legality of the contract 
Finally, Ms L and Mr V argue that as the contract they signed was fraudulent, its null and 
void. Theyve cited court cases from the country in which the scam happened,  where  the 
same business has been  found  liable and ordered  to repay customers. On this basis,  they 
argue that Santander should be approaching the bank the payment was made to, or the 
business itself,  to ask for their money  back.  They concede this might not be conventional, 
but that Santander should still attempt it.
While I can understand their point, Im afraid  I dont  agree that Santander should have done 
any of this, and that in failing to do so has treated them unfairly. 
Santanders job is to administer their account; keep their money safe; and follow  the terms 
and conditions of the account  its given to Ms L and Mr V  such as following the chargeback  
process. I think  its done all of these things.  It doesnt have a responsibility to take legal  
action to recover its customers  money where  theres been  a scam, but that at the time of 
payment this wasnt known and the payment was correctly authorised. 
Ms L and Mr V are of course  able to consider their own court action if theyre minded to, but I 
dont think its fair to say this is something Santander should be pursuing  for them.  
To conclude,  once again Im truly sorry to heard of Ms L and Mr Vs misfortune, and I hope 
by some other means  they might  recover their money. But dont think  its Santanders  
responsibility to do this for them, and I dont think its made a mistake, or treated them 
unfairly, in declining to pay them back itself. 
Ref: DRN27086474my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2708647