K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs unhappy with the information Skipton Building Society gave him about applying  for a 
power of attorney.
background
Mr H says Skipton didnt tell him that a doctor  would  charge a fee for certifying  a power  of 
attorney or that he could appoint his own solicitor to complete  the work which wouldve been 
£100 cheaper. He wants Skipton to reimburse this amount to him.
Skipton said in its final response  that itd resolved matters with Mr H by it being agreed the 
certificate provider fees would be refunded to him by the third party company involved.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
We can consider this complaint as Mr H has a Skipton account and recommendations 
about a power  of attorney are an ancillary  service  provided.
Skipton recommended Mr H should  have a power of attorney and it referred him - with 
his permission - to a third party company  it uses to plan estates.  But he wasnt  led to 
believe it was the only company able to complete the power of attorney. The power  of 
attorney wasnt just used for the bank  account it was also for matters outside  of the bank. 
And that information  was in the pack Skipton  gave him. It also made clear there would be 
a fee to arrange the power of attorney. So, it wouldnt be fair to require Skipton to 
reimburse the £100 Mr H says he couldve  saved by using  his own solicitor.
It wouldve been disappointing for Mr H to find out hed have to pay £120 for his doctor to 
certify the power of attorney. But Skipton wouldnt have  known  the exact fee a doctor 
would charge. And it did say thered be some payment required. The third party  company 
acting has agreed to cover the doctors fee for Mr H and it wouldnt be fair to ask Skipton 
to also cover this as well.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr H spoke with Skipton and it was agreed  a power  of attorney was an appropriate thing for 
him to obtain. And with his permission  it passed  his details onto a third party company 
dealing with such matters  and estate planning.
In doing so Skipton appears  to have made  Mr H aware of what the power of attorney would 
be used for and that it would cover more than just his Skipton account.  It also said there  
would be a charge  for the third party company arranging the power of attorney. And that he 
may have  to pay a fee for the certification of the power of attorney, although it wouldnt have 
been able to say what that exact fee was.
Ref: DRN29320732I understand Mr Hs frustration on finding  out another  solicitor  wouldve charged £100 less 
than the third party company. But at no point did Skipton  say Mr H could only use the third 
party company it recommended. And Mr H was free to approach  and use other solicitors if 
hed wanted to. So, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Skipton to reimburse him 
for this amount as hed like.
I also see that the third party company has agreed, subject to being sent a receipt, to cover 
the certificate provider  fee. Consequently it wouldnt  be fair for me to require Skipton to do 
the same, not least as to do so would represent  a double recovery  by Mr H of the same 
expense.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont think 
I can fairly or reasonably require Skipton to do anything more as hed like. And I dont see 
any compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2932073