K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC wont refund  him for a photography  and 
modelling package  he paid for using his credit card supplied  by it.
background 
Mr B and his wife wanted to put their daughter forward for a photoshoot, so they visited the 
website of a modelling company Ill call B. Mr Bs wife sent an image of their daughter  to B 
According to Mr B, it e-mailed back soon  afterwards inviting  their daughter  to visit Bs studio 
for a photo shoot.  B mentioned that it would be giving detailed  advice and training to help Mr 
Bs daughter break into the modelling industry  to gain paid work and highlighted that its 
photographers regularly  did shoots for many  well-known, high-profile fashion  brands. Mr B 
paid B a £50 deposit using his credit  card to secure  the booking.  
Mr Bs wife and his daughter attended the photoshoot. It seems that the photoshoot  went 
well. B suggested that they ought to move things forward by entering  into a contract. At this 
point B called Mr B to discuss  the available packages for his daughter.  Mr B indicated  that 
he was told by B that his daughter was a natural and would receive paid work in weeks. Mr B 
also said he was told that all the major fashion  magazines were on Bs books. 
Mr B told us B suggested  it was so impressed with his daughters earning potential that it 
there and then reduced the cost of a certain premium  package by 50%. B said it would pay 
the other 50%.  He also says he was told this was a one-off offer and therefore  he needed to 
decide there and then.  
With all this in mind, they agreed and completed  the contract over the phone.  Mr B made the 
payment by credit card over the phone and his wife was provided with an invoice in the 
name of Mr Bs daughter. Another  company  a limited  company that I will call L was also 
mentioned on the invoice  as well as B. Both B and L were jointly meant to provide the goods 
and services.
After the contract  had been agreed over the phone,  B sent a written contract to Mr B to sign.  
The written  contract outlined the goods and services  he could expect to receive. This 
included the goods and services mentioned  in the phone call aside from the guaranteed paid 
work for his daughter.  Specifically, the contract promised:
The creation  of a website  containing photos  of Mr Bs daughter, plus hosting of the 
website for 12 months.
Images on a CD, a number of which would be retouched.
An app.
An agency list.
Aftercare service from a personal  coach and mentor.
B wrote to Mr B in early August 2017  to say that his daughters website had been created 
and that it had assigned a personal  agent to support and guide her. Mr B tried to get in touch  
with B over the course of the following few months  to find out whether they had any updates 
for work for his daughter. Mr B then complained  to B saying that it was not getting in touch 
with him despite  repeated requests. He mentioned that B had put his daughter forward  for a 
paid agency review and this was not what had been  promised before  he made the contract 
with it. Mr B also said that the images  created by B werent of a professional standard.
Ref: DRN20303452Mr B didnt get a reply  to his complaint, so he e-mailed Tesco  to put in a claim under Section 
75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He suggested  that he had been misled about what B 
was going to do and that the work it had done so far was not up to scratch: In particular he 
pointed out:.
None of the promises about paid employment made by B before the contract was 
made had been fulfilled.
He received a disc of mainly poor photos not the professional shots hed been 
expecting.
B created a very poor-quality website. 
He and his wife werent  able to get in touch with B at all to find out what  was 
happening despite numerous attempts. The aftercare and mentoring had not been 
provided.
Tesco replied saying  that it was not no able to establish any misrepresentation or breach of 
contract on the part of B. Tesco also said that Mr Bs comments about unsatisfactory  quality 
were based  on his personal  perceptions  rather than an objective  benchmark.  
Dissatisfied with Tescos response Mr B came to our service.
Our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint and upheld it in part. She said,  in summary, 
based on the information she had, she was persuaded that Mr B was given incorrect 
information about his daughter receiving guaranteed  paid work. She thought that he wouldnt 
have entered  into the contract  had he known no such work would materialise. 
Mr B accepted our investigators recommendation Tesco did not. In short, it noted that as 
part of her reasoning  our investigator mentioned customer reviews that had been  posted 
online about B and L. It didnt think it was appropriate for our investigator to rely on these. It 
suggested such reviews  tend to be skewed towards negative feedback and dont therefore 
necessarily given a balanced view. 
Further, Tesco thought  it possible that Mr B may have been  subjected to a pushy  sales  
technique, but this didnt amount to misrepresentation or a breach of contract. 
In addition, it suggested what Mr B was possibly experiencing now is buyers remorse  in 
the wake of having made  a heat of the moment decision to enter into the contract. It didnt 
agree there was enough information to substantiate  whether  there had been a verbal  
misrepresentation about guaranteed paid work. 
Moreover, it suggested Mr B didnt  enter  the contract solely on the basis  that B would get his 
daughter work. Rather, he also contracted to buy a whole suite  of goods such as the photos 
and the website and hed got all of this. And it didnt share Mr Gs view that these had been  
of poor quality.
As Tesco didnt  agree  with our assessment so far, Mr Bs complaint has been  passed to me 
for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN20303453First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B paid for goods  and services using a credit card account  provided by Tesco.  He is 
asking it to help him based on the rights  he has under Section 75.
Section 75 says, amongst other things, that in certain circumstances if the debtor has, in 
relation to a transaction  financed by a credit  agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or a breach of contract, then he has a like claim against the 
credit provider.
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Bs complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr B pursued a claim  for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract which is something Mr B has indicated  at times he might  do. Our service  is an 
informal alternative to the courts.
the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship
One of the things that is required for Section  75 to operate is that there  needs  to be a valid 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. That is where Mr B is the debtor, Tesco  is the creditor 
and B is the supplier. Im satisfied that the a valid debtor-creditor-supplier link was in place. I 
say this because, it was Mr B who was contacted by B by phone to discuss  the modelling 
packages that it was offering. And I am satisfied that the contract  was made in that 
telephone call when  the negotiations were done,  by Mr B and B and the payment was made. 
After the contract  was made verbally  a written contract was sent to confirm  the terms. 
Although the contract was signed  by Mr Bs wife, I think she did this as his agent. I note that 
B sent the contract  paperwork  to Mr B for his approval. Which  indicates who it thought it had 
contracted with. And in any event, as I have already mentioned the written contract was sent 
to him after the verbal contract had already been  made. 
Ref: DRN20303454I see that the invoice  was in the name of Mr Bs daughter. I think  this was done merely to 
show that the contract was for her benefit not to indicate she was a contracting party.  Mr Bs 
daughter was a minor at the time the contract was made. None of the contractual terms were 
discussed with her. She appears on none of the other contractual information. And if B had 
had cause to seek payment  in relation to the contract it is clear it would have addressed any 
such demands for payment to Mr B. For all of these reasons Im satisfied that Mr B was the 
contracting party in relation to the contract  with B. It follows that I am persuaded that there 
was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here as I have already said. 
verbal misrepresentation
I now need to look at the substance of the complaint. I think  this complaint  at heart boils 
down to Mr B saying he did not get what he was led to believe by B that he was going to get. 
In other  words, he is saying the contract was misrepresented by B. Specifically, 
misrepresentation here means a false statement of fact that the consumer  relied on to his 
detriment. Mr B has mentioned throughout that he only entered into the contract because he 
believed what he says B said about providing guaranteed paid work with prestigious clients
I accept Tescos point that by their very nature  such alleged verbal  conditions  are hard to 
substantiate, and I therefore have to assess this aspect on the basis of the balance of 
probabilities. But I dont agree with it that I dont have sufficient information to say that such a 
misrepresentation was most likely made.  
Ive read the email  where  B made  the offer of the photo shoot it talked about assessing  Mr 
Bs daughter for modelling potential and the ability  to get paid work.
Mr B has given  a very detailed account  of what happened when he was negotiating  the 
contract with B. And in particular he mentions  that B led him to believe that it would  
represent his daughter  and guarantee her paid work with major well-known fashion clients. 
I note that Mr B says at first, B offered a specific package for £3,000  but then reduced this by 
half, if he took the offer immediately. This may be what  Tesco  refers to as pushy sales  
technique. But I think it likely that Mr B was pressured into deciding whether to agree to the 
package there and then and that was the intention of the offer. That in itself, is not I agree a 
misrepresentation in the circumstances. 
However, I think Mr B went for this take it or leave it approach  because  of the assurances,  
he most likely  received about his daughter receiving guaranteed paid work. As far as I can 
tell, there  had been no discussion before his daughter went for the test shoot,  of the next 
steps being entering into a contract in which Mr B paid B hundreds  of pounds.  So, I think  for 
him to agree  to this expensive  contract  that came out of the blue he had to have had, on 
balance, a pretty strong inducement to part with that amount of cash. 
I also find Mr Bs actions  after the contract  was entered  into to be consistent with someone 
who was likely given guarantees about paid work.  In particular, I can see that Mr B contacted 
B on several  occasions asking if it had any updates on the work his daughter would be 
getting. This doesnt  strike me as someone  who had simply changed their mind about  the 
contract. Rather Mr Bs stance is that of someone  who has been promised something 
beforehand and feels he is not getting  it now.  Nowhere in the correspondence I have seen 
between Mr B and B do I see anything  where  B says it never promised guaranteed work, 
which is what I might have expected  it to have said, if this was its position.
Ref: DRN20303455I dont think the absence of a term guaranteeing  work in the written contract, undermines  the 
likelihood that that the contract was verbally  misrepresented. The fact that the written  
contract does not reflect what  Mr B says was agreed,  on this point, does not change that I 
am persuaded in the light of all of the other information by what he says about verbal 
misrepresentation. In any event, Mr B didnt get the written contract until he had already 
agreed the contract over the phone.  So, Im not satisfied the written contract reflects what Mr 
B and B agreed in their verbal contract  over the phone.
I have to look at the circumstances of this individual complaint and whilst reviews might  
sometimes be helpful in this regard, I confirm to Tesco that I am not relying on the reviews in 
coming to my decision. Though  as an aside, I dont  necessarily agree that online reviews 
have an inherent  negative bias which is what it appears to be suggesting.
We have contacted B to find out more  about what had happened  and the services  it 
promised and provided. However,  no-one from B replied to us. So, we have nothing from B 
to refute what Mr B has said.  It is regrettable that we dont have Bs take on the complaint. 
That said,  it has been given a fair chance  to tell us its position.
What I am looking at here is all of the wider  circumstances under which Mr B agreed to enter 
into the contact. I think that is appropriate approach to take where the contract has not been 
documented in writing  and there  is a dispute about what representations might have been 
made. When I take this all into account Im persuaded on balance, that Mr B was promised a 
lot more than what  materialised  such as, most notably  guaranteed work for his daughter.  
In addition, Im not satisfied the promises were fulfilled. Indeed,  instead  of the promised 
aftercare which presumably would have been  the way to get the guaranteed  work  it seems  
Mr B struggled to get any further meaningful contact with B at all. And although B put them  in 
touch with someone, Mr B says this was a workshop that came at a cost and not a casting 
which is what he was led to believe would happen  with the promises of guaranteed paid 
work. As far as I am aware to date, Mr Bs daughter has received no paid work  as a result  of 
the contract  that Mr B entered into.
redress
The next thing  I have to look at is what would  be an appropriate  remedy for Mr B. In cases 
such as this, we would usually put a consumer back into the position they would have been 
in had they been aware of the true nature of the arrangement.  In this case, Im satisfied that 
Mr B wouldnt have  entered into the contract with B.I therefore will be directing Tesco to 
refund the whole payment  made by Mr B to B this includes the deposit.  I will also instruct  
Tesco to remove any adverse information  from Mr Bs credit file relating to this payment.
I note that Mr B says he still has a copy of the CD. And he has also had the website. I dont  
see that Mr B has had any benefit from these. I dont think it is fair and reasonable to deduct 
anything from the refund to reflect the cost of these items. I say this because  Im satisfied  the 
underlying purpose  of the contract  was to provide a package to obtain paid work for Mr Bs 
daughter. The photos and the website were tools  to help with this aim. With this in mind, I 
think it would  be both unfair and artificial  to consider the package by reference to the 
individual elements, when no paid work has ever been obtained.
Normally I would instruct Tesco to take the CD back from Mr B. However, given the current 
circumstances where  it is likely  that the CD has been touched and given  it contains  images  
of Mr Bs daughter who is a child, I dont think that is appropriate.
Ref: DRN20303456I accept that the contract outlined a number  of services and goods  that formed part of the 
package, as I mentioned above, Mr B did complain about the quality of these goods and 
services. However, I dont think I need  to look at this part of the complaint, as I have decided  
already that Mr B should  get a full refund which is what  he asked for. So, I think this part of 
the complaint  now falls away.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
Give Mr B a refund of £1,500. Mr B and Tesco tell us Mr B has already paid his credit  
card bill and paid off the £1,500  that he paid to B. So, Tesco needs to make  a direct 
payment to Mr B of £1,500. It should  also pay him interest on the £1,500  at a rate of 
8% simple per year, the interest to run from the date that he made  the payments to B 
to the date of settlement.
If Tesco has asked the credit references  agencies to register  negative information on 
Mr Bs credit file about this transaction it must  now ask them  to remove this 
information.
 
Tesco must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If Tesco considers it is legally required to deduct  tax from any 
interest award it should provide Mr B with a certificate of tax deduction so he can reclaim this 
from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2030345