K820x#14Complaint
Mrs Es unhappy with Legal & General Assurance Limiteds  (L&G)  decision to decline a 
claim made under an income protection insurance  policy held by her employer.
Background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2019, which included the 
following:
Mrs E first went absent from work  with back  and lower limb problems in October  2017.  She 
remained off work   barring several  curtailed attempts  at a phased  return  to work  until 
around March 2019 when  she returned  on reduced  hours. 
Mrs E made a claim with L&G for benefits to be paid under her employers group income 
protection insurance policy. To qualify, she had to be incapacitated, as defined in the policy  
terms, throughout the deferred period of 26 weeks and beyond. 
L&G declined the claim as it didnt consider Mrs E met the policy  definition  of incapacity. In 
its final response letter of December 2018 L&G said, among other things, that this was 
because there was no clear neurological explanation that has yet been identified and her 
functioning remains compatible with sedentary work.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt recommend the complaint  be 
upheld. He believed  L&G had acted fairly in declining  the claim. 
Mrs E didnt agree with the adjudicator and provided  further  comments on the available 
evidence. The adjudicators opinion remained unchanged, so the case  was passed to me to 
review afresh.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to emphasise  that this is a complex case  and that strong arguments have 
been made by both parties. The available information isnt in any way conclusive; 
nevertheless Ive reached a decision based on the balance  of the evidence as I see it.
Having done so, Im currently minded to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
While the definition of incapacity that applied to Mrs Es claim was set to change  over the 
course of a claim,  the definition  for the first two years of any claim included the following:
 incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed  illness or injury which prevents him from 
performing the essential duties of the job he carried out under his contract 
immediately before the start of the deferred  period
Deferred period means:
 for each insured member the period of consecutive weeks shown for the relevant 
category in the schedule starting  with the first day that he was:
Ref: DRN25050382unable to work;
only able to work reduced hours;  or
only able to work in a reduced capacity;
because of an injury  or illness that resulted in him becoming a disabled  member.
If a disabled member returns to work during  the deferred period, but becomes unable  
to work again because  of their injury or illness, well link the separate  periods  of 
absence together  as long as:
each absence is for at least five consecutive working days;
each absence is because of the same  or a related injury or illness; and
all the absences we link have  been within the last 52 weeks.
While I accept the causes  of Mrs Es symptoms  were  unclear at first, further  investigation 
over the last two years  has shed some light on the cause  of her problems. Medical 
conditions have been diagnosed and shes been  advised regarding appropriate treatment. In 
the absence of any evidence to suggest otherwise, it seems these conditions  have been the 
cause of her problems from the very beginning.
Looking closely at the medical evidence  from the start I note, for example, that Mrs E was 
initially signed off work  by her GP and has been consistently throughout her absence.  
The report  from the consultant occupational health physician Mrs E saw in January  2018 
(through her employer)  suggested adjustments could be made to her workstation that might 
help her cope with work. He said Mrs E was waiting to see a specialist for her back  and he 
hoped that with further specialist treatment her back would improve and shed be better  
placed to attend work  more regularly. He concluded  that the changes in her back were likely 
to be long-term and would require ongoing treatment.  
In June 2018, Mrs Es GP reported that she was awaiting review  at a pain clinic.  The GP 
said she remained unable to return to work  and that the return she attempted  in March 2018  
led to a marked deterioration in her symptoms.  They found Mrs E would find any desk-based 
job very difficult to undertake and that it was appropriate to await  the findings of the pain 
management team before  offering further advice.
In January 2019, Mrs Es employer referred Mrs E back for a phone consultation with an 
occupational health adviser (OHA). The OHA said Mrs E was currently  unfit for work due to 
her ongoing  health issues and was awaiting further treatment and surgery via the specialists 
currently seeing her. The OHA said any return to work would depend on the progression  of 
her conditions following  any planned treatment. 
Its taken time for Mrs Es to confirm any definitive  cause for her symptoms. However, I dont 
believe it would be fair to turn her claim down because of that. Shes been referred to 
various practitioners and for numerous  investigations. While its fair to say no one cause  had 
been found for some time, its also reasonable to conclude that there was little doubt all 
along among Mrs Es doctors that her symptoms were genuine  and had a medical  basis.
I recognise that Mrs Es undergone a functional capacity  assessment (FCA)  as requested  by 
L&G the report from which,  L&G believes, suggested she could return to work with the 
appropriate workplace  adjustments. And that L&Gs company medical officer  (CMO)  who it 
Ref: DRN25050383says is trained within the field of neurology  appeared to share that view.  However,  I think  
its fair to place emphasis on the opinions  of the doctors and healthcare  professionals that 
have seen, examined and treated Mrs E. With that in mind, I think  the consensus  of medical 
opinion was that Mrs E likely was incapacitated from performing the essential duties of her 
job from October 2017 onwards.
As far as I can tell, Mrs Es made several genuine  attempts  to return  to work with the support 
of her employer whos  tried to make  reasonable adjustments  for her. Unfortunately, and 
through no fault of Mrs Es, most of those attempts  werent successful.
So, taking everything  into account, I dont currently find that L&Gs decision to decline 
Mrs Es claim was fair. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  my provisional decisions that I uphold this complaint. Im minded to 
require Legal  & General Assurance  Limited  to:
accept that Mrs E was incapacitated under the terms of the policy  from the time she 
stopped working  in October 2017  and pay her benefit according to the policys 
remaining terms and conditions; 
add interest to these  payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated  from the 
date each payment  was due until the date of settlement.
I asked the parties  to send me any more  comments or evidence  they wanted  me to consider 
before I revisited the complaint. 
Mrs E said she agreed with my provisional  decision. She said her medical problems were 
ongoing and provided a copy of a report dated  July 2019 from her treating consultant in pain 
management. She said she could provide proof, if needed, that she was working  reduced  
hours.
L&G said it didnt agree with my provisional  decision. In summary, it said the medical  
evidence from the time in question was unclear and that it had been entitled  to arrange a 
FCA. The FCA report showed  Mrs E was more likely than not able to perform the duties of 
her sedentary occupation. 
L&G suggested a more appropriate provisional recommendation would have been to give 
Mrs E the opportunity  to submit new evidence from one of her treating specialists  perhaps 
after the specialist  had reviewed the FCA report.      
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  and as L&G accept, this is a complex case.  Regardless 
of the decision  I make, I recognise that one of the parties will be disappointed with the 
outcome.
Ref: DRN25050384Im grateful  to both parties for their further comments and their attempts to help shed more 
light on the reasons  for their respective positions.  Having  considered  them carefully,  I remain 
of the view that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Essentially, I believe L&Gs placed more emphasis on the FCA report than it would be fair for 
me to. It says the assessment was carried out by a qualified specialist. But, as I alluded  to in 
my provisional decision, Im wary  that the assessor  wasnt one of Mrs Es treating medical 
practitioners. Nor was L&Gs CMO.  Mrs Es GP, on the hand,  was one of her treating doctors  
and they saw fit to sign her off work throughout the relevant period. For the reasons already 
given, I consider that the evidence from her treating specialists is  while  perhaps not always 
explicitly so  broadly  consistent with the GPs  evaluation.
Taking a slightly different  approach to L&Gs suggestion regarding the FCA report, Id say 
my findings  could have  been different had L&G sent a copy  of the report to one of Mrs Es 
treating specialists for comment. Of course  this would have depended on what,  if any, 
comments those specialists were  willing to make. But it seems L&G and I arent necessarily 
in agreement as to where the onus lay in doing this.  
So, taking the information currently available into account, I still dont consider that L&Gs  
decision to decline Mrs Es claim  was fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint. I require Legal  & General Assurance Limited 
to:
accept that Mrs E was incapacitated under the terms of the policy  from the time she 
stopped working  in October 2017  and pay benefits  according  to, and in line with, the 
policys remaining terms and conditions; 
add interest to these  payments at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated  from the 
date each payment  was due until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2505038