K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs J says Lloyds  Bank PLC trading as TSB mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs J has said it wasnt made  clear  to her that the PPI was optional. Ive seen a copy 
of Mrs Js credit card and PPI application.  The form has all of Mrs Js details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Mrs J discussed with TSB at the time of sale. On the form Mrs J indicated  
that she wanted to buy TSB Credit Card  Payments Insurance (the PPI). She didnt 
have to do this if she didnt want the PPI. So I think TSB made it clear that Mrs J 
didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember  this.
TSB says it recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. 
Whilst she did have some  sick pay the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to this. So  
she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information TSB gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means TSB doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But TSB has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because:  
TSB got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about that. Because TSB didnt tell Mrs J, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, TSB has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
Ref: DRN28843292But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs J any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2884329