K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a disputed  cash  withdrawal of £300.00  
made from her account on the 17 July 2018.  Mrs B says she didnt carry out the transaction.
background
Mrs B said that a fraudulent cash withdrawal of £300 was made on 17 July 2018.  She said 
she went to the cash  machine  to withdraw £20, she entered her PIN and requested £20. 
Whilst using the cash machine  a stranger was at the adjacent cash machine and was 
looking over to her. She said he saw her put her PIN in. Mrs B said she was unable to take 
the cash out because the machine  would not dispense the cash. She said she was having 
trouble getting  the card out, she says her card was retained by the machine for five to ten 
minutes. The stranger  then told her the machine wasnt working. He came  over to her cash  
machine and advised her to press cancel  for the card to be returned   which  she did.  Mrs B 
then went to the adjacent cash machine to make  a £20 withdrawal, but this was denied. In all 
she attempted to withdraw £10 and £20 from different cash  machines unsuccessfully. She 
got a text from Santander saying her daily limit had been reached.  Mrs B says she was 
worried that she couldnt withdraw any money, so she attended her nearest branch to report 
this. The bank told her £300 had been taken out of her account.
Mrs B complained to Santander and said she didnt carry  out the £300 withdrawal. The bank  
investigated and decided it wouldnt refund the disputed transaction. It said it was because the 
genuine card was used, and the transaction was chip and PIN verified. Mrs B confirmed she 
had not given her PIN to anyone else and her card had been in her possession all the time.
Mrs B was unhappy with the decision and asked Santander to review it. Santander 
confirmed its original  decision but said it would reconsider if CCTV evidence showed  the 
third-party distracting  Mrs B.
As Mrs B didnt agree  with Santander, she asked us to investigate. Mrs B thought  that if 
Santander had told her to go to the police at the time she would have done so. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, she thought that Mrs B had most likely 
authorised the withdrawal  because the technical  evidence from the bank suggested  the card 
had not been retained  for between five and ten minutes. And there were no discrepancies  in 
the amounts issued  by the cash machine. Also, Mrs B didnt contact the police to obtain the 
CCTV evidence or report the incident to the police.
As Mrs B didnt agree  with the investigators  view the matter  has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
for much the same reasons.
Generally, Santander  can hold Mrs B liable for the disputed transaction  if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not she made or authorised  it herself.
Ref: DRN22931392I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs Bs genuine card and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own enough to enable Santander to hold Mrs B liable. So, I also need to think 
about whether  the evidence suggests its more likely  than not Mrs B consented  to the 
withdrawal being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Santander  to conclude Mrs B 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
The disputed  withdrawal was made  using  Mrs Bs genuine card and PIN. Shes said no 
one else knew  her PIN. Mrs B has said she was distracted  at the cash  machine by a 
third party who may have seen her enter  her PIN. However, she has said the third party 
didnt touch  the cash machine whilst  she was there, and she didnt see any money come 
out of the machine. In addition, the time line doesnt support  this version as the £300 
was withdrawn  before the £20 and £10 were attempted  so its hard to see how the third 
party got access  to Mrs Bs PIN number to withdraw  £300 
Mrs B has said the card was always in her possession. And although its been suggested 
that a third party  distracted Mrs B at the cash machine and may have taken  her card,  
looking at the time line of events, its implausible that the third party took the card from 
Mrs B, used  it and then replaced it without her noticing  in less than one minute.
Although Mrs B has said the card was stuck  in the machine between five and ten 
minutes the evidence  shows that she used her card within 40 seconds to try and get £10 
out of the adjacent  cash machine.  It also shows that two and a half minutes  later a new 
customer used  the machine.  
Mrs B said that no cash was dispensed.  The technical evidence  shows that the card was 
put in, a balance  enquiry carried out, a request to withdraw £300 and then the card being 
input into the next cash  machine and an attempt to withdraw £10 made  in a total of 56 
seconds. This suggests the same person must have carried  out all these transactions.
Im aware  Mrs B says no cash was dispensed  at the time,  but Ive seen the journal roll 
and the purge  bin evidence which shows that £300 was dispensed seconds after 
Mrs Bs card entered  the machine.  So, Im satisfied the money was dispensed.
I would have  expected  Mrs B to contact the police to report  the fraud after she came back  
from her holiday  as she was advised  to do so by Santander  staff at her holiday destination. 
Mrs B says that obtaining the CCTV would make  a difference to the outcome. Ive thought 
about this  but based on the technical  evidence Ive seen  I dont  think  that CCTV 
evidence would change  the conclusions Ive reached. I think its implausible that the events 
occurred as Mrs B describes. 
Based on everything  Ive seen I think its fair and reasonable  for Santander to refuse to 
refund the disputed  cash withdrawal because overall, I think its more  likely than not that 
Mrs B made the transaction  she disputes.
Ref: DRN22931393my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2293139