K821x#15complaint
Mr P says S.D. Taylor  Limited (trading as Loans at Home)  lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr P had six home credit loans with Loans  at Home. Ive summarised some of the 
information Loans at Home  provided  about  the loans in the table below.
Loan Start Date Settled Term Loan  Amount
1 23/04/2014 29/10/2014 32 weeks £200
2 29/10/2014 23/12/2015 41 weeks £500
3 18/03/2015 23/12/2015 32 weeks £200
4 23/12/2015 21/12/2016 33 weeks £400
5 28/12/2016 n/a 33 weeks £200
6 29/12/2016 n/a 45 weeks £250
Loans at Home offered to uphold loan 3 in its final response letter  so I dont need  to 
address that loan directly in my decision.  
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld in respect of loans 
4 to 6 as well. Loans  at Home didnt agree with the adjudicator, so the complaint was passed 
to me to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  affordability - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.  
Loans at Home needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Loans  at Home should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN24166902There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Loans at Home was required to 
establish whether  Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Loans at Home has provided  copies of the application  forms for loans 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. Each 
application form is fairly similar and records information about  Mr Ps income  and 
expenditure and employment status. Some forms mention  his partners income  and their 
contribution towards  household bills. Where relevant, the forms also state how much of a 
loan is being used to settle the preceding loan.
Like the adjudicator,  I think  this sort of approach was proportionate for loan 1. Although  
I note Loans at Home  only recorded  fairly  limited  details of Mr Ps outgoings, omitting to 
record information about certain essential expenditure (such as food and utilities).  But given 
the relatively low weekly  repayments for this loan, I dont think it was unreasonable for 
Loans at Home to conclude loan 1 was likely to have been affordable for Mr P.
I have some concerns  about whether the affordability assessment for loan 2 was 
proportionate. Loan 1 was in arrears for a significant  period of time  suggesting  Mr P, 
despite apparently  having  more than enough disposable income to easily afford  the 
repayments, was struggling to repay  it without undue difficulty. It seems loan 1 was still in 
arrears at the time Mr P took out loan 2, part of which was used to settle loan 1. 
Ref: DRN24166903When Mr P asked  for loan 2, the application form records  that his outgoings had decreased 
from £110 per week (for loan 1) to just £60. And his income had increased  slightly to £300 
per week,  leaving him with a notional  disposable income of £240 per week. Its difficult  to 
see then why, if his outgoings were decreasing  over time, Mr P wasnt  able to meet  the 
repayments for loan 1 on time and in full, when the repayments were just £10 per week.
Loans at Home has provided  its own internal  investigation notes for this complaint, which  
suggest it considered  upholding the complaint about loan 2  partly because of concerns 
about the level of arrears  on loan 1 (it seems  it also reached the same conclusion for loan 4). 
So it seems  Loans  at Homes own investigation also resulted in it having concerns about  the 
conduct of Mr Ps accounts.
Im looking  at Mr Ps complaint afresh  and independently. And while I think Loans at Home 
didnt do enough  to check loan 2 was affordable,  I dont think this means I should 
automatically uphold  the complaint. In the circumstances of loan 2  taking into account all 
the factors Ive mentioned  above   Id have expected to see a more detailed  affordability 
check. I think it wouldve  been proportionate  for Loans at Home to ask Mr P for some form of 
proof of his income  and outgoings, as it wasnt reasonable to accept Mr P had as much 
disposable income as declared on the application form, bearing in mind the conduct of 
loan 1. Loans at Home  didnt do this  but at the same  time, Ive seen no information  from 
Mr P which would suggest loan 2 was unaffordable for him. In the absence of anything to 
allow me to recreate a proportionate checks, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint about 
loan 2.
As Ive mentioned  above, Loans  at Home has already made an offer to settle loan 3  so 
I wont say anything about the decision to approve that loan.
For loans 4 to 6, I also dont think Loans at Home carried  out proportionate checks  before 
lending. Loans  3 and 4, like Mr Ps other loans, quickly  entered into arrears   so I think 
proportionate checks wouldve  been the same for loans 4 and 5 as Ive described  above for 
loan 2. Again, I dont  have any information from Mr P to show me exactly  what such checks  
wouldve revealed. But for loans 4 to 6, I dont think I need  this information.
This is because Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Loans at Homes lending history  
with Mr P, with a view to seeing  if there  was a point at which it should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful.  And so Loans  at Home should  
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
At this point Loans at Home ought  to have realised Mr P was not managing  to repay  
his loans sustainably.  Mr P had been  indebted  to Loans at Home  for 20 months, 
without breaks between any of the loans and he was, for the second time,  at least 
partly refinancing existing debt.  As Ive mentioned above, all of Mr Ps previous  loans  
were also in arrears at some point.  So Loans at Home ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr P was having  to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ps indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Ref: DRN24166904Mr Ps first loan was for £200  and loan 4 was for £400.  Loans  at Home ought to 
have known that Mr P was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Loans at Home.  Loans  5 
and 6 (which were taken just one day apart) were  taken 36 months after 
Mr Ps first loan. And together  they were  for a larger amount. Mr P had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Loans  at Home over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Loans at Home continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for use over the short-to-medium  term over an 
extended period  of time.
the length of time over which Mr P borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 6, in addition to loan 3 (as already agreed 
by Loans at Home).
putting things right
For loans 3 and 4: Loans at Home should  refund  the interest  and charges paid by Mr P, 
adding 8% simple interest per year, from when Mr P paid the interest and charges (if he did) 
until the date of settlement.
For loans 5 and 6: if the loans have now been fully repaid, Loans  at Home should put things 
right by taking the same  step as above for loans 3 and 4. 
If the loans  are still outstanding, Loans  at Home should rework the loan accounts to remove  
all interest and charges  and treat any repayments made as if they were paid towards the 
principal. If this results in Mr P having made overpayments (i.e. having  paid more  than the 
principal amounts borrowed), Loans  at Home should  refund the overpayments  to Mr P, 
adding 8% simple interest per year from when the overpayments arose, until the date of 
settlement. If instead there is still an amount  for Mr P to pay towards loans 5 and 6, this can 
be deducted from the redress for loans 3 and 4.
Loans at Home should also remove any adverse information it has recorded about loan 3 
from Mr Ps credit  file. The number of loans  taken from loan 4 onwards means any 
information recorded about them is adverse. So all entries about loans 4 to 6 should be 
removed from Mr Ps credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. Loans at Home 
must give Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one
Ref: DRN24166905my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part. S.D. Taylor  Limited  must  put 
things right by taking the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2416690