K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is about the service provided  by British Gas Insurance  Limited in relation to 
a claim under an appliance  insurance policy. 
background
On 4 February 2018, Mr J reported  a fault with his dishwasher. British Gas came  out first on 
12 February 2019 to try and repair it. As far as Mr J was concerned  it was repaired and he 
used the dishwasher  as normal after this. However,  on 6 March  2018 Mr J called  British  Gas 
again, as the dishwasher wasnt working and was leaking. British  Gas arranged  an 
appointment for 9 March 2018 but its engineer failed to attend. 
On 11 March 2018 British Gas engineer attended. The engineer said that new door seals
were needed  and he told Mr J not to use the dishwasher. 
British Gas was meant to come back on 15 and 16 March 2018 but failed to attend. (Mr J 
says there  were at least six broken/missed  appointments in total between reporting the claim 
and it being repaired.) One of the engineers attended at 2.30pm even though  Mr J had 
asked for someone  to attend after 4.00pm. Mr J was not at home  and so Mr J says he threw 
the parts into his back garden, so another engineer could fit them the next day. 
On 17 March 2018 another engineer attended  who fitted the new seals and fixed  the leak. 
However, Mr J says that by then water had been leaking out of the dishwasher for some  time 
and had damaged the base unit next to the dishwasher and his floor.
Mr J is extremely  unhappy with the service provided  by British Gas and its handling  of his 
complaint. He has made a number of submissions, which Ive summarised below: 
The contractor  was meant to attend  between 4 and 6pm on 12 February  2018  but he 
arrived at approximately  3pm.  He came back after 4pm but couldnt locate the leak.
If the first contractor had actually turned the dishwasher on and waited for the cycle to 
start progressing, like the next engineer  did, he wouldve  seen the water pouring out of 
the door seals. All he had to do was pull the dishwasher  out of its housing  and turn it on 
then he would have  found the reason  for the fault and the damage would probably not 
have happened.
Within a couple of weeks  of the first engineer  attending, the exact same thing 
happened. This cannot be coincidence. The leak must have  always  been there and 
was not fixed  properly. 
When he called in February 2018,  the dishwasher had been making a noise but no 
water was coming out. Mr J says it made  a noise like it was trying to work but it was not 
producing water.  The second engineer told him that the door seals were leaking both 
under the floor and into the dishwasher tray, so when the water reached a certain  point 
it touched the motor  of the dishwasher  and this acted  as a safeguard in preventing any 
more water  coming out. When the first engineer  finally  looked  at it, the water had 
evaporated, so it worked.
The second engineer  took the dishwasher  out of its housing and found the leak straight 
away. He explained  in depth what the cause of the damage was and that the first 
engineer should  have  easily spotted it. We should speak to him; even if the second 
engineer didnt write this down, this is what happened.   
British Gas cancelled six appointments, including some made before the initial  
appointment on 12 February 2018.
Ref: DRN23396842He had to make a claim  under  his home  insurance policy for the damage to the kitchen 
floor. Asbestos was then found  under the floor, which  meant more work was required.
British Gas says that the first engineer asked his wife to monitor the dishwasher after he 
left but this is not correct; he told his wife there was a hole which  he had fixed  with 
silicone and he marked the paperwork he left with them  to reflect  this.
British Gas had told him it would reimburse  the excess hed have to pay to his home insurer 
(i.e. £250)  but later refused to do so, as it said hed have  had to make the claim anyway.   
British Gas did not respond  to his complaint. It took five months  for it to do so and it 
would not have responded even then, if he had not pursued the matter.
British Gas accepts that the service provided  was not as good as it should have been. It 
acknowledges that it had not addressed his complaint  and that Mr J was told his home 
insurance excess could  be reimbursed but then told Mr J it wouldnt do so, as it says this 
expense would have  been incurred by Mr J anyway.  British  Gas offered Mr J £250 
compensation for the incorrect information  about the policy  excess  and the delay in 
complaint handling. It also acknowledges that some appointments didnt happen as arranged  
although it disputes how many. British Gas offered £80 compensation for the missed 
appointments. British  Gas also said that Mr Js home insurer  could claim against its liability  
insurer if it determined that it was responsible for the damage to the kitchen. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She did not consider there was enough 
evidence to support  Mr Js assertions that the dishwasher was leaking at the first 
appointment. The adjudicator noted  that the second engineer did not record on his job sheet 
that the leak had been  present  before  and should  have been  spotted by the first engineer,  as 
Mr J has told us. She therefore did not consider  that the damage to Mr Js kitchen was a 
result of anything British Gas did wrong. The adjudicator considered that the £330  
compensation already offered by British Gas was reasonable and did not recommend that it 
do anything further.  
Mr J doesnt accept the adjudicators assessment and so the matter  has been referred to 
me. He is also unhappy with her handling  of his complaint. Mr J has made some further 
submissions, which Ive also summarised: 
The adjudicator  said that it had taken British  Gas "longer than expected" to contact him 
in response to his complaint but this misses the point   it would never  have responded if 
he hadnt constantly chased for a response. British Gas had filed it away due to 
administrative error, mistakes and oversights like this do not instil confidence in 
anything else that is said or decided thereafter.
He says he has never said that British Gas is responsible  for the damage  to the kitchen.  
What I have stated is that the original contractors  failure to spot it may have prevented 
the damage.  There is a huge difference.
He would not have  seen the leak after the first visit because it was only visible  when the 
dishwasher was pulled  out of its housing  and was in the middle  of the floor  as the 
second engineer  did.
Mr J also asked for me to contact him by phone to discuss  the case. However, deciding
ombudsman dont routinely talk to either  party to the complaint,  as fairness would usually
require that both parties be involved  in any discussion  at the same time. We may
do so if there  is information that is unclear or a dispute about  the facts  of the case that we
consider can only be clarified by discussing  it with the parties. Mr J feels  strongly  that the 
adjudicator hasnt understood his submissions  but they have been set out clearly  in writing 
Ref: DRN23396843and verbally to the adjudicator. I dont  consider  it is necessary  to discuss this case  with the 
parties in order to fairly determine the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that it should not be upheld and I will explain why.
Attendance of the first engineer 
Mr J is adamant that the dishwasher was leaking from the outset and that British  Gas should 
have spotted this and fixed it on the first attendance. 
The first engineer recorded that he had cleaned  base and checked  seals unable  [to] find 
leak advised customer to monitor. I know Mr J disputes that the engineer  said to monitor the 
dishwasher and says they were in fact told it had been fixed. However,  I have no reason to 
doubt that the base referred  to in his report is the base  of the dishwasher and that this 
engineer checked all the seals  and found  no evidence of a leak.
 
It also seems  to be accepted that the noise  that Mr J had referred to did not happen when he 
attended. It would seem  that the fault didnt happen again until 6 March  2018, when Mr J 
called British Gas again. This is also apparently the first time that the leak was visible to     
Mr J. Given all this, I am not persuaded that what  he did on this occasion was obviously 
wrong or negligent.  
Mr J disputes this. He is also adamant that the second engineer found the leak easily and 
told him the first engineer  should have done  as well. However, as he also acknowledges, 
this is not confirmed in any written  document that Im aware of. The second engineers job 
sheet says the dishwasher was leaking into base and new door seals were  needed.  
Mr J says this means he saw the water was leaking into the base unit next to the 
dishwasher, but this is not clear; it could also mean it was leaking into the base of the 
dishwasher. The engineer also records that Mr J refused to sign the job sheet. 
Mr J says we should  talk to this engineer.  However, we would not usually speak to witnesses 
in this way. We are an informal alternative  to the court  system.  We do not have the power to 
interrogate witnesses or to take evidence under oath. We do have the power to undertake 
some investigations  and to make  binding decisions as to what we think is the fair and 
reasonable outcome to individual cases.  
Im not satisfied that it has been established  that the first engineer could  or should have 
found the problem earlier. I have no convincing  evidence  that the steps the first engineer 
took were not reasonable at the time, based  on the reported fault and what was apparent to 
him then.  He took some action and it would  seem  as it has not been  stated otherwise  that 
the noise which led to Mr J reporting the claim wasnt happening continuously after he left.  
Therefore the second engineer was attending on the basis  that the work done  the first time 
hadnt been a permanent  repair and it was reasonable to carry out further investigations. 
It follows therefore that I do not consider  that British Gas is responsible for any of the water 
damage to Mr Js kitchen. 
Ref: DRN23396844Mr J is not happy that we are questioning what the engineer told him verbally but I can only 
go on the evidence  available  and there is nothing to confirm that the same fault and the leak 
would and should have been obvious  to the first engineer and he acted unreasonably in not 
taking further  action at that appointment.
In addition, even  if I were convinced that this had been established   which  I am not  if the 
leak was already present and had been happening unnoticed this would  have been  
occurring before that first attendance. There is no way to know  therefore how much water 
damage would have occurred before the first attendance. 
Mr J has made a point of saying he is not alleging the damage was caused  by British Gas 
only that it might have been  prevented  had the first engineer spotted  the leak.  The distinction  
is a fine one. It is possible that it might have  prevented some  of the damage but there  is no 
convincing evidence that it would have done,  even if I were  satisfied the first engineer had 
acted incorrectly. 
Given all this, I am not persuaded that the home insurance claim was due solely  or primarily 
because of anything  done wrong by the first engineer. It follows  therefore that it is also not 
responsible for any of the resultant inconvenience of having the floor taken up and replaced 
or the cost of the home  insurance  excess. I cant therefore make any award  against  British 
Gas in this respect.  
Excess
Mr J says he was unequivocally told by a British Gas call-handler that the home  insurance  
excess would be reimbursed. He questions why having acknowledged  that it lied to him 
about this, there is no recourse?  Sometimes mistakes happen, this does not always  mean 
that compensation or some  other  award  is warranted. British Gas is also not usually bound 
by anything that a call-handler  says in error, provided it has not caused any detriment. Mr J 
had already made his home  insurance claim at this point  and so the excess  was payable.  He 
has not asserted  that he made  the home insurance in reliance on anything told to him by 
British Gas. It has taken this incident  and the disappointment  this caused to Mr J into 
account in its offer of compensation. I do not agree  that this means he should be paid the 
excess amount, given it was not an expense that was incurred solely  or primarily due to 
anything said or done  by British Gas. And I have no power to punish British Gas or to require 
it to discipline any employees. It is appropriate that it be taken into account as part of the 
overall service provided however. 
Cancelled appointments 
Mr J says British  Gas cancelled appointments prior to the first visit but the notes of the first 
call reporting the claim record  that 12 February  2018 was the first available appointment 
British Gas had as it couldnt  send  an engineer  for Mr Js preferred time slot before this date. 
I cant therefore see that any appointments before 12 February 2018 were cancelled  by 
British Gas.
The contractor arrived an hour earlier than booked on 12 February 2018. I cant  criticise 
British Gas for this, as if it had been convenient  for Mr J, it would have been better to have 
the matter dealt with earlier. In this instance, it wasnt  convenient, so he returned at 4pm.  
I do not intend to make  any award  or finding against British  Gas for this. 
Ref: DRN23396845There is evidence of some other  appointments being broken and I agree that some  
compensation is appropriate for the inconvenience this would have caused, including the 
delay this would have had on fixing the dishwasher.
Complaint handling
British Gas did not respond to Mr Js complaint  and he had to chase for a response. Clearly, 
it is not acceptable for a financial business  to fail to respond to a complaint.  However,  we do 
not regulate businesses and while it took five months to respond to his complaint, his rights  
were to come to us after eight weeks, if no response  was received, so Mr Js rights were  
unaffected by this. I have no power to punish  a business for a failure  to respond to a 
complaint or not responding to it within a reasonable time. I can however, take it into account 
as part of the overall circumstances.
British Gas has also apologised  for this and taken it into account in its offer of compensation. 
Compensation 
Having considered all the circumstance of this case, including  the missed/broken 
appointments and not addressing his complaint until August 2018,  I agree  that the total 
compensation already offered of £330 is reasonable. This is in line with awards made in 
similar cases. I do not consider that any additional award is required. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint, as I consider that British Gas Insurance  Limited has already 
made a reasonable offer of compensation having taken account of all the circumstances  of 
the complaint.  I understand that Mr J has already received £80 compensation but the 
remaining £250 offered has not yet been  paid.  If Mr J wishes to accept that compensation, in 
settlement of his complaint, he should  confirm acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2339684