K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that someone  else cancelled her payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy, 
so she cant claim  for when she became unemployed in 2005.
background
Ms D had a PPI policy alongside her mortgage.  In 2005 she lost her job. She says she didnt 
claim on the policy at this time, as she didnt know she had the policy.
In 2012 she complained to the business that sold her the policy  she thought  that the PPI 
was mis-sold. This has been looked into separately,  so I havent looked  at this in my 
decision. She then complained that the lender didnt tell her she could claim on the policy 
when she lost her job. Following in our involvement,  she referred the matter  to St Andrews. 
St Andrews  looked  into this. Though it didnt think it had done anything  wrong  at the time,  it 
said it was happy  to consider a backdated claim.  It sent Ms D a claim form to complete. But 
it also said its records showed the policy had been cancelled  in March 2004,  and so Ms D 
would only be able to claim for things  that happened  before that date.
Ms D wasnt  happy with this  she didnt think shed cancelled the policy. She thinks 
someone else did this without her permission.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. He didnt think, based  on what hed seen, that 
St Andrews  had acted  unreasonably.
Ms D doesnt agree.  The complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I see it, the heart  of Ms Ds complaint is whether or not she cancelled the policy.
Because of the time thats passed,  St Andrews doesnt have an audio  recording of the call. 
But I dont think thats unreasonable  the policy ended in 2004, and I wouldnt expect 
St Andrews  to have  kept these records for longer than they needed them.
Equally, Im mindful that memories can and do fade over time. Ms D is certain  she wouldnt 
have cancelled the policy in 2004. But shes also said she wasnt even aware she had a PPI 
policy. I dont doubt that Ms D doesnt  now remember having  PPI alongside her mortgage,  
and so I understand why Ms D feels that this means  she couldnt have cancelled  the policy. I 
also have a great deal of sympathy for the difficulties Ms D faced when she lost her job. 
But I now need to decide whats most likely  to have happened in March 2004  and this 
means weighing up Ms Ds recollections  alongside  the other information Ive seen.
According to St Andrews  records, it received  a call on 17 March 2004. The notes say that it 
had received a call from Ms D to cancel the plan.  St Andrews records also show  that Ms D 
stopped making  payments towards the policy from this point onwards. No further premiums 
were taken.
Ref: DRN28373102Ive thought about what Ms D has said about this. She thinks someone  else must have 
cancelled the policy without her permission. She also says shed have been at work at the 
time St Andrews records say she called to cancel the policy.
I appreciate this will be disappointing to Ms D. But I dont think  what  shes  said,  on its own,  
persuades me she didnt  cancel the policy.
The records  St Andrews  made at the time suggests  she called them  to cancel the policy  
and while  I accept that Ms D thinks someone  else may have been impersonating her, I think 
its far more likely that she did this because she didnt want the policy. I acknowledge what 
Ms D has said about the time stamp shown on the St Andrews records. But this doesnt 
persuade me Ms D couldnt have cancelled  the policy.
Im also mindful that Ms D has previously complained that the policy was mis-sold  that she 
didnt want or need the policy at all.
Having considered all the evidence, I think its most likely that Ms D cancelled  the policy.  So 
I wont tell St Andrews to consider a claim  for anything that happened after that date.
Ive considered everything else Ms D has said. But this doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2837310