K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Covea Insurance plc unfairly  declined a claim he made on his buildings insurance 
for subsidence affecting his property.
background
Covea used an agent to deal with aspects of this claim but as Covea is ultimately  
responsible for the complaint, Ill refer to it throughout.  Coveas actions referred to in this 
decision also include those of its agent.
Mr S purchased a property at auction.  He took out a buildings insurance policy underwritten 
by Covea.  Sometime later, Mr S noticed  cracks  in the property so he contacted  Covea to 
make a claim. 
In July 2014, Covea attended  the property, undertook an investigation and produced a report  
that concluded subsidence  was the cause of the damage and that a period of crack width 
monitoring would be required.  In August 2014  Covea accepted the claim and confirmed  it 
would be undertaking the necessary  monitoring.
After this, Mr S reported further damage  to Covea, this time relating to the drains  at the rear 
of the property. He employed his own loss assessor  and instructed  a surveyor to undertake  
a further investigation. The surveyor produced a report in February 2015 and concluded  that 
the cause of the damage was compacting  fill material and while some of this was historic, 
there was also some  more recent and ongoing.
A period of discussion  between Mr S, his loss assessor and Covea followed. In short,  Covea 
said it was only responsible for damage  that had occurred recently and during the period of 
insurance.  
Eventually, in July 2016, Covea declined the claim explaining that the policy  didnt cover  
subsidence in areas of made up land. Mr S didnt think this was fair, so he complained to 
Covea.
It maintained its position and the claim remained declined so Mr S brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator considered the evidence and concluded that Covea hadnt 
acted unfairly in declining the claim.  But he decided Covea could have  done  so sooner than 
it did and, as a consequence of this delay, he said it should pay Mr S £400 for the impact of 
the delays it caused. Covea accepted this recommendation.
Mr S accepted the investigators view that Covea  hadnt acted unfairly in declining  the claim. 
But he didnt  think the £400 fairly reflected the trouble and upset hed been caused  by Covea 
so he asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain my 
reasoning.
Ref: DRN22037142Following our investigators review of his complaint, Mr S accepted the decline of his 
subsidence claim as his house had been built on made up land and claims of this type were  
excluded under the policy. So I dont  need  to reach a decision on this aspect of the 
complaint. Instead,  Ill focus my attention on the delay  caused by Covea and the impact this 
had on Mr S. The FCAs Insurance: Conduct  of Business Sourcebook places a responsibility 
on insurers to handle  claims promptly and fairly  so Ill be considering any delay in the light of 
that.
In this case, I consider the delay  to be from the point  Covea should reasonably  have become 
aware Mr Ss property may have been built on made up land to the point it declined the claim 
for this reason.
Coveas first report  July 2014
Having looked  at the original engineers  report from July 2014 undertaken on behalf  of 
Covea, it seems to me the possibility that Mr Ss property was built on made up land was 
first raised here:
This appears to suggest that the front is constructed  on filled ground,  possibly where  
an old pond or quarry was situated  given the details  shown on old OS maps
The report  concluded  that there  was subsidence  and the likely cause of this was the 
consolidation of the imported fill material. It also said that some  of the damage was historical 
and this may have  been picked up if Mr S had arranged for a survey to be undertaken before 
he purchased the property. It said there  was little doubt thered been recent and possibly 
ongoing movement  and that monitoring might  be required.
As the cause of the movement wasnt certain, Covea went ahead  with the period of 
monitoring to see if the cause was covered by the policy.  
Coveas second  report  November 2014
In November 2014 there was a further  site visit. During this, after some research hed 
undertaken himself,  Mr S pointed out to Covea that the property had been built on the site of 
an old quarry backfilled with domestic  refuse.  But it didnt change its stance and continued to 
monitor the cracks in the property.
Surveyors report on behalf of Mr S  February 2015
As he was unhappy  with the way Covea  was investigating the issue,  in February 2015 Mr S 
arranged an independent report from a firm of surveyors. In summary,  this identified  
among other things  - that the site was enclosed within an old stone quarry and the property 
had been built on a raft foundation and
an unconsolidated fill of mainly  ash
It went on to say the surveyor had 
rarely seen  such  poor ground  conditions.  The main trial pit revealed loose 
uncompacted fill with a large number of bottles, a car tyre and large empty  metal  
containers
The surveyor also questioned  the type of crack  measurement being undertaken by Covea 
saying that it wouldnt  be possible to understand the full picture  if only one type of movement 
was considered.
Ref: DRN22037143So I think by this point  there were  at least three  opportunities for Covea to suspect or 
conclude the property was built on made up land. And if it had, it would have been able to 
explain to Mr S that exclusion might apply  and therefore to decline the claim sooner  than 
July 2016 when it eventually did.
I think it was reasonable  that Covea undertook further investigations to establish the cause 
of the movement after the first report as its conclusions werent definitive.  But I think  that the 
second report and the results  of Mr Ss investigations in November 2014 were  enough  for it 
to reach  the conclusion  the house was likely  to have been built on made up land.  So I think 
this is the point Covea could have  declined the claim.
I note from Coveas letter to Mr S dated  27 November 2018, it confirms  it reached the same 
conclusion following the site visit and report in November 2014:
[Coveas engineer]  was satisfied the property  was subsiding and would continue 
to do so. He was also satisfied that the cause of the subsidence was the fact the 
property was built on uncompacted  fill materialThe damage  caused is not 
something your policy would cover you for
But, for various reasons, Covea didnt decline the claim until July 2016. So I think  it didnt 
handle the claim  as promptly as it should  have and Im satisfied it caused an unnecessary  
delay which  caused  Mr S trouble and upset.
I acknowledge the outcome  of the claim was no different as a result  of the delay as the 
policy excluded claims of this type on made up ground.  Mr S has subsequently accepted this 
too. But hes explained the impact  this delay has had, believing  for a significant  time that his 
claim was going to be covered, only to discover months later that it wasnt. I understand why 
this would have  caused him trouble and upset. 
I think Covea should recognise the impact of this delay  on Mr S. Ive thought about this 
carefully and decided Covea should pay Mr S £400 by way of an apology.  I realise  this is 
less than Mr S thinks is fair but I consider it fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
 
Ref: DRN22037144my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Covea Insurance  plc to pay Mr S 
£400 if it hasnt  done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2203714