K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Fs complaint is about  advice  and assistance they received from First Complete 
Ltd in relation two mortgages  one residential  and the other a buy-to-let. They  are unhappy 
that because of delays, errors and a lack of communication on First Completes part they 
incurred costs they otherwise wouldnt have. This was because they went on to both lenders 
standard variable  rate (SVR) of interest for a short period. In addition,  the new mortgage on 
the buy-to-let  (BTL) property was for less than the existing one and they had to find the 
additional funds  to allow completion.
background
In 2015 Mr and Mrs F received advice from First Complete in relation to their mortgage  
requirements. At that time they owned  a property. It was being let out as Mr and Mrs F had 
needed to move to a different part of the country  for work. They wanted to buy a home 
where there  were now living. They re-mortgaged their existing property on a BTL basis  and 
released some equity; this then allowed  then to buy a property to live in.  Both  mortgages  
were with the same lender and had fixed rates attached to them  that ended in April 2018.
12 Oct 2017 Mr F emailed the mortgage adviser at First Complete. He explained they were 
thinking about what to do with their properties, a possible move  was mentioned, and were  
aware that their fixed rates were  due to end in April 2018. One of their thoughts  was whether 
it might  be better to re-mortgage before April in case of possible increases in interest rates  
before then. 
In response the mortgage adviser  asked  to speak to Mr and Mrs F. There is no record of the 
conversation that was held, but Mr F has referenced  one taking  place. Nothing  further  
happened at that time as it appears they were  not certain about their plans. This is 
supported by the mortgage adviser  emailing them in January  2018 to touch base with them 
and ask if their plans had solidified.  It doesnt  appear she received a response.  
First Complete had it diarised from the previous  advice to contact  Mr and Mrs F in 
February 2018. They did so and an appointment to see the mortgage  adviser  was booked 
for 19 February 2018. During that meeting the adviser completed a fact find document  to 
record their circumstances,  needs and requirements.  The adviser  subsequently  assessed 
that information and made  recommendations for both the BTL and residential mortgage 
arrangements. 
For the BTL mortgage,  which Mr and Mrs F said had £127,500 capital outstanding, it was 
recommended they change  lender. The new mortgage was to be on an interest-only  basis 
and have a two-year  fixed interest rate attached to it.  In  relation to the residential mortgage, 
the mortgage adviser recommended  they stay with their existing lender and attach a new 
two-year fixed rate to the mortgage.
The mortgage adviser emailed on 2 March  2018 asking for a convenient time to call to run 
through Mr and Mrs Fs financial commitments and the details of the BTL mortgage before 
the credit  scoring  was done. She hoped to credit  score  later that day and for Mr and Mrs F to 
sign the necessary  documentation the following day. 
Whilst it appears that a conversation happened, due to the weather  Mr and Mrs F werent 
sure they would be able to get to First Completes office to sign the documents. The adviser  
decided to post the documents  instead. 
Ref: DRN27642992The mortgage adviser sent Mr and Mrs F suitability letters,  documenting the discussions that 
had taken place  and her recommendations. The applications were  then submitted  to the two 
lenders. Unfortunately,  there was an error  on the BTL form  the wrong house number was 
documented. This error  was corrected the following day. 
On 9 March 2018 First Complete emailed Mr and Mrs F to confirm  the administration 
arrangements from that point.  The  member of administration staff introduced himself as the 
mortgage advisers assistant and provided his contact details in the event they had any 
questions or queries: I  will be your point  of contact throughout the course of your 
applications; if you need to contact me my direct  number is .
Four days later the residential lender  wrote  to First Complete and told it that it couldnt offer 
the product switch  requested. The mortgage  adviser  spoke to it and was told Mr and Mrs F 
would need to contact it directly  if they wanted  to go ahead with a new product. It didnt tell 
the adviser why that was the case.   This information was passed on to Mr and Mrs F and the 
mortgage adviser asked  them to call her. They didnt do so as Mr F would be in her office  
dropping off some documentation the following morning and decided  he would speak to her 
at that point. 
Unfortunately, the mortgage adviser  was in a meeting at the time Mr F attended her office. 
The following  day the mortgage adviser emailed  Mr F again and explained that she had 
spoken to the residential lender and had it confirmed there was something  to do with a 
sub-account  that meant the transfer  to a new rate couldnt be done through a broker.  She 
told him that he had to call the lender directly to obtain a new rate. She also questioned 
whether they had taken new lending since shed arranged the mortgage in 2015.
Mr F confirmed the same  day that yes, they had taken additional lending.  He asked the 
mortgage adviser whether she wanted him to call the lender and if so, if she would provide 
him with contact details.  This email was not responded to at the time.
The following  day the administrator at First Complete updated Mr and Mrs F about their BTL 
application. He explained that the lender had received high volumes of applications and so 
there were delays in assessing them. He was chasing on a daily basis and would let them 
know of any developments. 
Just over a week later the administrator at First Complete provided Mr and Mrs F with an 
update following their request. He explained  that their tenant  had told the valuers  that access  
to the property wouldnt be available until after 29 March 2018. 
Subsequently the mortgage  adviser Mr and Mrs F had seen left First Complete and overall  
responsibility for their applications were assigned to another mortgage adviser. Following 
them asking for an update, the new mortgage  adviser emailed then on 27 March to introduce  
herself. She confirmed that once the case had transferred over, she would look at it 
straightaway to give them  an update.  
The following  day Mr and Mrs F asked the mortgage adviser for a progress report on both of 
their applications.  They  highlighted  that their fixed rates ended in April. No response  was 
received and they emailed again on 3 April chasing the new mortgage  adviser  for an update 
on the residential mortgage. They  confirmed  that the application  for the BTL was moving 
forward and they would  be sending the necessary  documentation to their solicitors that day. 
Ref: DRN27642993The mortgage adviser responded by email  and promised an update  later that day. She tried to 
call Mr F in the afternoon  but didnt get a response. Mr F has confirmed he spoke to the 
mortgage adviser the following day and was told she couldnt provide the reason the lender  
wouldnt deal with the broker and he believes she hadnt tried to find out. The mortgage  
adviser also emailed Mr and Mrs F contact details for the residential lender. At the same time, 
First Complete also provided the valuer for the BTL with the tenants  direct telephone number 
so Mr and Mrs F didnt  need to be involved in the arrangements for the valuation appointment.
It would appear Mr F contacted the residential lender that day as a mortgage advice 
appointment was scheduled with the residential  lender for 11 April 2018.  
On 9 April the administrator at First Complete  emailed Mr and Mrs F to confirm the valuation 
had been booked for 11 April 2018.  He explained if that was ok, the mortgage offer should be 
issued about a week later. Unfortunately, the BTL lender  ordered  the wrong type of valuation.  
On 16 and 19 April 2018 the administrator at First Complete tried to contact Mr and Mrs F by 
telephone and left a voicemail when he was unable  to. He then emailed on 19 April 2018  
explaining that the lender  had ordered  the wrong type of valuation. Whilst it had re-ordered 
the correct valuation, it hadnt been done  yet and they were  waiting for a date to be 
confirmed. He said he was chasing the lender  and would  provide Mr and Mrs F any updates 
that were received.
In the meantime Mr F was emailing  the mortgage  adviser asking for updates and asking 
whether some system problems with the lender would  affect  the application. The mortgage  
adviser confirmed that the administrator had checked and the application wasnt  affected  by 
the system problems. She also explained that Mr and Mrs F should  go to the administrator 
for updates  as she was usually in meetings most of the day. 
On 24 April 2018 Mr and Mrs F email the mortgage  adviser asking for an update on the BTL 
application. She provided one later that day  the valuation had been done and sent to the 
lender. She also confirmed if the old lender took the monthly mortgage payment for May 
based on the higher interest  rate, any overpayment if completion happened mid-month 
would be refunded.
Mr and Mrs F contacted the mortgage  adviser  again  two days later asking that a close eye 
be kept on the progress of the BTL application.  She confirmed the following day that the 
administrator had spoken to the lender and the mortgage offer would be produced by the 
end of the day. The offer was sent to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors  on 27 April 2018.
Mr and Mrs F emailed  scanned copies of the mortgage documentation  to the lender on 
30 April 2018 and confirmed they had also posted the originals. Some  further information 
was required by the lender. The redemption statement issued by the old lender for the BTL 
was sent to Mr and Mrs Fs solicitors on 15 May 2018. Completion eventually  happened on 
18 May 2018. 
On 24 May 2018 the residential  lender confirmed to Mr and Mrs F their product switch had 
been done.
Mr and Mrs F then complained to the residential lender, the new BTL lender  and First 
Complete about  the delays, the financial  losses that had resulted and the poor service  they 
had received. 
Ref: DRN27642994First Complete investigated Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the service it had provided them 
with. It upheld the complaint in part. It offered them £100 in recognition  of any frustration and 
inconvenience they had experienced.
In subsequent correspondence with First Complete, Mr and Mrs F said that when they were 
told the residential lender was not prepared to deal with the broker,  given there was no 
correspondence from the lender direct to them, it led them  to conclude that First Complete 
should still be handling the application. Mr and Mrs F confirmed they received a telephone 
call from the lender, but as no reason why it couldnt  deal with the broker  was given, they 
referred the matter  back to the broker. 
Mr and Mrs F werent satisfied with First Completes response and referred  their complaint to 
this service. Initially, our investigator explained  to Mr and Mrs F that we couldnt consider 
their concerns about the BTL  mortgage advice as it was given by a broker and was not 
regulated. Whilst disappointed, Mr and Mrs F accepted  this. 
Mr F said to our investigator that if he was paying  the broker to do a job, he expected it to do 
that job. So from his point of view, First Complete were still dealing with his application, 
despite it telling him the lender had refused to deal with the matter through a broker.
First Complete confirmed the compensation payment  should  be allocated  half to each 
mortgage arrangement. So our investigator should consider it had offered £50 compensation 
for the residential  mortgage arrangements.
The investigator went on to consider  the advice regarding the residential mortgage  and the 
subsequent administration of the application.  He concluded that the communication  by First 
Complete could have been better  and there  was a delay caused by it in responding to an 
email from Mr and Mrs F when their adviser left the organisation. However, he was satisfied 
Mr and Mrs F hadnt suffered a financial loss because the lender backdated the interest rate 
to the date the old one expired. However, he felt the compensation payment  should be 
increased to £150  in recognition of the amount of upset and trouble First Completes poor 
communication and administration  had caused Mr and Mrs F.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept the investigators  conclusions. They said they did have financial 
losses as a result of the delays caused by First Complete. This was because, in order to pay 
the higher mortgage costs while they were on SVR, they had to move money from their 
savings account  (losing interest in doing so), went overdrawn (incurring interest  on the 
overdraft) and had to transfer funds from other obligated payment commitments to ensure 
completion of the product switch.  All of this placed a financial strain  on their family. They  
would also like to be compensated for the time and effort they had to put into dealing  with 
the situation  getting  the residential rate and persuading the lender to backdate it to when 
the old rate expired. They explained this experience lasted for five months.
Our investigator noted the request by Mr and Mrs F for redress  for financial loss due to the 
higher payments they had to make. He wasnt persuaded  there  was any significant loss as 
the total additional payment they had had to make over two months was £116.02. He was 
satisfied that the compensation  award hes made  fairly  reflected  any minor financial loss and 
the distress and inconvenience  they had suffered. 
Ref: DRN27642995First Complete also rejected the investigators  conclusions. It highlighted that Mr and Mrs F may 
have contacted its advisor in October  2017,  but their plans werent fixed at that time and so no 
further action  was taken. The appointment with the adviser was arranged because it contacted 
Mr and Mrs F shortly  before their fixed rates were due to expire. The mortgage appointment was 
arranged for 19 February 2018 and the application  for the rate change was submitted on 2 
March 2019. As soon  as First Complete  was told the lender wouldnt  allow  the rate to be done 
by it, it told Mr and Mrs F that was the case.  In fact it did so twice. It acknowledged  that it would 
have been courteous for it to have responded to Mr and Mrs Fs email  of 15 March, but it 
doesnt consider  that omission led to any delays in the rate going through because  Mr and Mrs 
F knew  they needed to deal with the lender  direct  and they already had the lenders details, as it 
was their existing lender.  It didnt feel that it should be held accountable  for the consequences 
of Mr and Mrs F not calling their lender when they were told to. 
Subsequently Mr and Mrs F raised a new issue about the interest rate product First 
Complete recommended  for their residential  mortgage. They  said the rate recommended  
was only available  to new customers  and so they werent eligible for it. Mr and Mrs F put 
forward that this caused  delays in the process  with the lender because it had to recommend  
a new, appropriate  product.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
asked the investigator  to ask Mr and Mrs F some questions about  their BTL property and it 
became apparent that the property would be considered for the purposes of the rules  that 
govern our jurisdiction a consumer buy to let mortgage. That meant  we could consider this 
aspect of the complaint. Both parties  were told this and neither raised  any concerns.
Mr and Mrs F were  also invited to provide evidence of the consequential losses  they had 
stated they had suffered  overdraft interest  etc. Whilst they reiterated previous comments 
about losses linked directly to the mortgages,  they provided no evidence of any losses 
because of having to pay the higher rate of interest  on the mortgages.
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 22 January  2020.  In that document  I set out 
my conclusions and reasons for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt of that document:
Before considering the merits of the complaint about First Completes handling of 
Mr and Mrs Fs residential mortgage  arrangements, I would confirm I have considered our 
jurisdiction to consider  their complaint about the service they received in respect of both 
mortgages. I am satisfied  that both fall within our remit to consider as the lending on 
Mr and Ms Fs rental  property would rightly be considered a consumer BTL mortgage.
I have reviewed the information about the offers  the two lenders have made to Mr and Mrs F. 
In respect of the residential mortgage  the lender has backdated the new interest rate product 
to 1 May 2018  and refunded any surplus mortgage payments made. The BTL lender has 
refunded the additional  interest Mr and Mrs F paid because of the delay in the re-mortgage 
completing. I am satisfied  that any direct financial loss because  of delays by any of the 
parties involved have  been covered by the two lenders. As such,  the only losses  that 
Mr and Mrs F can reasonably be compensated for are those of a non-financial nature, for 
example inconvenience, upset or frustration or consequential financial losses such  as 
overdraft interest if such a facility had to be used to make higher payments that they would 
have needed to had the delays not occurred.  
Ref: DRN27642996I will firstly  deal with Mr and Mrs Fs comment about  the time between  their first contact with 
the broker in October  2017 and the first meeting to discuss their mortgages  in 
February 2018. They believe this is time that was wasted by First Complete and should be 
considered a delay.  However, as I have detailed  above, that doesnt appear  to be the case. 
When Mr and Mrs F contacted the mortgage adviser in 2017 their plans were not decided 
and advice couldnt be given in that situation. The mortgage adviser  contacted them in 
January 2018  to see if they had decided what  they were going to do and doesnt appear to 
have received an answer. First Complete then contacted  them in February 2018 at what 
would be considered a reasonable period before the expiry  of their fixed  rates  to look at 
plans going forward.  I dont consider First Complete caused any delays during this period.
residential mortgage
I will now look at the matter of the residential  mortgage product application. I would initially 
comment that it appears the mortgage  adviser couldnt have been  aware  there might be a 
problem with the application because  Mr and Mrs F hadnt told her of the circumstances that 
caused the lender to make this decision.  As soon as she was aware  the lender wouldnt 
allow the application to progress through First Complete  and Mr and Mrs F had to deal 
directly with it, she told them. She told them this twice in two days.  Although she tried to get 
more information  about why, that message to Mr and Mrs F didnt change. In addition,  the 
lender contacted them itself. I think reasonably Mr and Mrs F should have understood by 
15 March 2018  at the latest that they needed to deal with their lender directly.  
I note that Mr F asked the mortgage adviser  if she wanted him to contact the lender directly 
and he received no answer  due to her illness. However, I dont  think he needed an answer   
she had already told him twice the lender would only deal with him direct. The same  applies 
to provision of contact details for the lender  Mr and Mrs F already had this information as 
they had been customers of the lender since 2015.  
I can understand Mr and Mrs Fs position  in that they had selected  to transact the change  to 
their mortgage through a broker and they felt that should remain the case until a reason was 
given. They think First Complete should have obtained this explanation. Unfortunately,  
First Complete wouldnt have been able to obtain  any such  explanation  due to data 
protection requirements  the lender couldnt have released that information to First 
Complete. I also think it was clear from the mortgage advisers communications  she wasnt  
getting an explanation, so Mr and Mrs F would need  to speak to the lender directly to get 
that explanation, as they had been requested to do.
As for the lender recommending a different interest rate product  and Mr and Mrs F believing 
this caused delays in the product  change completing, I am unable to agree. Given  the 
reasons the lender wanted to deal with the matter directly, it was always going to have gone 
through the process it did. I know Mr and Mrs F wont  agree with this, but I dont think  
First Complete caused any delays in relation to the processing of their residential mortgage 
product change.
Ref: DRN27642997BTL mortgage
I think it would be of assistance to explain a mortgage brokers  role and influence  in a 
mortgage application process. The broker will assess a clients  situation, needs  and wants  
and recommend a suitable mortgage for them. They will gather the information and evidence 
they know the lender will want  to see and submit the application. If the lender then wants  
more information  the broker will collect it and pass it on. 
What happens  once the lender receives  the application and any additional  evidence  it wants,  
is beyond the control  of the broker. Whilst it can talk to a lender, make it aware of the 
applicants concerns and hoped-for timescales;  that is all it can do. It has no authority over a 
lender and it cant make it prioritise an application  or progress it any more  quickly than it 
ordinarily would. In this particular case, it also cant stop the lender  being busy  or making  
mistakes. The same  applies to third parties such as the valuer. So on that basis, whilst  I can 
see that Mr and Mrs F feel First Complete didnt do everything it could to get the BTL 
application progressed  once it was submitted, I am not persuaded it could have done 
anything more that would have made any difference to the date the mortgage completed.
The new mortgage  was for less than Mr and Mrs F needed to repay their old mortgage. As 
such, they had to find an additional £75 at completion to pay the difference, which they arent 
happy about. Having looked  at the paperwork form the time of the advice to take the new 
mortgage, I think its clear First Complete  submitted the application  for £127,500 based on 
what was recorded  on the fact find  the amount Mr and Mrs F said was outstanding on the 
mortgage. I dont  think it was wrong  to do so as it was not a party  to the mortgage  account 
and could only base  its advice on what Mr and Mrs F told it.  If Mr and Mrs F subsequently  
became aware  the amount of the advance was wrong  for example when a redemption  
statement was received by their solicitor  they could  have  notified  First Complete that was 
the case and asked it to change the amount of the advance. Neither they nor the solicitor did 
that. It would  also seem  likely that by the time First Complete received a copy of the 
redemption statement it was too late to do anything as completion had been set and the 
solicitor would have  already  requested  release of funds from the new mortgage.  I again dont 
think First Complete did anything wrong in this respect.
consequential loss
Mr and Mrs F said they had suffered consequential  losses because of having to pay out 
more than they expected  in mortgage  payments and to complete on the BTL mortgage.  They  
detailed overdraft interest and a loss of interest  on savings that had to be withdrawn.
We invited Mr and Mrs F to provide  evidence  of these losses, but they did not. As such, I 
cant consider this aspect  of the complaint further.
Ref: DRN27642998overall service
There were things First Complete got wrong. An example of this would be the error  on the 
application form for the BTL mortgage.  It would  also appear it didnt check before the 
application was submitted  who the valuer should  contact to arrange access. This clearly 
inconvenienced Mr F at the time,  as did the delay in answering the email  about them  
approaching their residential  lender  directly  and provision of contact details. It is also clear  
that Mr and Mrs F expected updates more regularly  that they got them. I dont think the 
service was to the level Mr and Mrs F could  reasonably have expected.
However, I think much of Mr and Mrs Fs frustration  and disappointment in the behaviour  of 
First Complete stems from them not understanding the roles  of individuals within  that 
organisation and its role in the mortgage  process.  I cant hold First Complete responsible for 
Mr and Mrs F making incorrect assumptions  about  what it could do, or for the fact that they 
had difficulty getting hold of the two mortgage  advisers, when they had been told just after 
the applications were made they should  be speaking to the administrator. As one of the 
advisers explained to Mr and Mrs F, they spend a lot of time in meetings   given their role to 
advise customers,  that would  be expected. 
Overall, and I know this will again disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I think  the £100 First Complete 
offered for its errors and poor service was an appropriate amount in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs F have  asked  that First Complete provide them with a different mortgage adviser 
in the future or a refund  the lifetime fee they paid in 2015  so that they can go elsewhere.  I 
am not in a position to make a financial business  change its staffing arrangements to cater  
for a consumers preferences. However, I am sure it will have more than one mortgage 
adviser available in a particular area and so I would suggest that Mr and Mrs F see what  the 
situation is when  they need to seek further advice  and if appropriate  ask to see a different 
mortgage adviser. I see no reason in the circumstances to ask First Complete  to refund the 
broker fee paid in 2015.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  accept my conclusions. They said they would not be accepting the £100 
offered as it does not accurately reflect the overall financial losses  we have suffered arising, 
in our opinion  from the sub-standard service received from the broker and First Complete. 
They reiterated that in light of the service they have received they should  be provided with a 
different mortgage  adviser as they have concerns about the service they would receive in 
the future,  having complained about that individual.
First Complete accepted  my conclusions. It also confirmed that the second  mortgage adviser 
was no longer in its employ. It explained the process  that would be gone  through when 
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgages were due to be reviewed  and the choices available to them within 
the network it is a member of. This information will be forwarded  Mr and Mrs F by our 
investigator.
Ref: DRN27642999my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Fs recent  
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
having done so, I see no reason to alter my conclusions. 
That said,  I believe the information recently provided by First Complete should allay 
Mr and Mrs Fs concerns about  any future advice they receive. It would appear it is willing  to 
provide various  options for Mr and Mrs F in this respect and they will not have to deal with 
the same  mortgage  adviser.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 March  2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2764299