K821x#15complaint
Mr D says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved one open ended  (flex credit) account, and 26 payday  loans for Mr D 
between April 2014 and December 2016. 
Sunny had assessed the complaint and had decided  that the flex credit account  may not 
have been suitable for Mr D. It had offered to refund all interest  and charges in relation to 
this account and amend his credit file accordingly.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service.  He is represented by a third party.   
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and his view was that Sunny should put things 
right for Mr D in relation to all but the first loan  Loans 2 to 27. 
Our adjudicator noted that Loan 2 followed on from the flex credit account  with a credit  limit 
of £350. This had commenced in April 2014 and ran until November 2014.  And so there  had 
already been many  credit advances before Loan 2 had been applied  for which  was in 
January 2015.  And the flex credit account  had been running for about  eight  months.
The other high-cost  short  term credit  loans Sunny offered to Mr D were  ones  repayable over 
six months. Mr D had been given 26 loans many  of which overlapped with at least one and 
often more than one other loan. So the effect  was that Mr D was repaying multiple loans at 
the same  time for about two years. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ds case. So the detailed sets of regulations  
and the approach this service takes  in relation to repeat lending of instalment loans has 
been set out in the published  decisions and are not set out here. 
This includes some of the provisions of the Consumer  Credit Act including later 
amendments, guidance (such as the Office  of Fair Trading Guide on irresponsible  lending  
OFT) and rules provided by the regulators (after 1 April 2014 the Financial Conduct 
Authority FCA),  and industry codes of best practice.
Under this framework, in order  to hold a consumer credit licence Sunny was obliged to lend 
responsibly. As clarified by the regulator  Sunny needed to make a reasonable assessment 
as to whether  or not a borrower could  afford  to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner. Neither the law nor the FCA specified how the assessment was to be carried  out 
Ref: DRN29858302but, whatever  the method, it needed  to be enough to assess the sustainability of the 
arrangement for the consumer. 
Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed. It 
was not an assessment of the risk to the lender,  but of the risk to the consumer.  And it 
needed to be proportionate to both the circumstances of the lending and the circumstances 
of the consumer. 
A lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible  what was sufficient for 
one consumer might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in 
one circumstance  might not be for the same  consumer  in other circumstances.   
The FCAs rules applicable  at the time Mr D was borrowing from Sunny, set out in its 
Consumer Credit Source  Book (CONC), echo and refer back  to sections of the OFTs 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance. The rules  say that in assessing affordability  a lender needs 
to consider whats appropriate in the circumstances for example  the type and amount of 
credit being  sought  and the potential risks to the consumer. 
It also clearly  states that lenders should  not refinance short-term loans where it would  be 
unsustainable for the consumer or otherwise harmful for them.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  and have explained why below.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay his loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.  
There may come a point  where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ds complaint. These  questions  are:
1.did Sunny each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  to satisfy  
itself that Mr D would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those 
checks have shown  that Mr D would have been  able to do so?
2.taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about all of these questions and what  they mean for Mr Ds complaint.
Did Sunny each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself 
that Mr D would be able to repay in a sustainable  way? If not, would those checks have 
shown that Mr D would have been  able to do so?
Ref: DRN29858303The first loan has been upheld by Sunny and so it is not in dispute.  But it remains relevant as 
it forms part of the history of lending.  And the flex credit account lasted for about eight 
months. 
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for Loans 2 to 27 because 
I dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ill explain why this is the case  in the next section.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall pattern of 
lending increase Mr Ds indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful?
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of lending. Ive looked to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further lending.  
Granting overlapping loans with combined  repayments may not in itself necessarily be 
irresponsible. But, apart from being arguably more difficult to manage  for the consumer,  the 
fact that someone  would ask for further  credit having just taken out a loan should  raise the 
question as to the intended purpose of the loans. And, depending on how long the lending 
relationship was at that point, this may be of concern  to a responsible lender. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that the point at which Sunny 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful  
was reached by Loan 2. I say this because:
Sunny  had already been  extending credit to Mr D for eight  months and the flex credit 
account was not run where Mr D took one drawdown and then repaid it back  over a 
reasonable time. Mr D took several drawdowns  over those months;
Sunny  has conceded  that the flex credit account may not have been suitable for him;
replacement of that with a number of overlapping instalment  loans  produces  a similar 
effect to that experienced on a flex credit account  re-borrowing and repaying over 
longer periods of time;
I think that Mr D lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from Loan 2 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ds 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
the amounts  Mr D was borrowing increased to £500 on many  occasions, or the 
cumulative principal amount borrowed added up to figures  around that  an example 
is January 2015 where Mr D took four instalment loans the total principal sums 
approved for Mr D added up to £650, and 
Sunny  ought  to have realised it was likely Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably; and
Mr D was in effect  paying  large amounts of interest to service multiple debts over an 
extended period  and it cannot be ignored that fresh principal sums lent may well 
have been used to repay the other outstanding loans  Mr D already had with Sunny.
Ref: DRN29858304So Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint about  loans  2 to 27 because  the overall  pattern of lending 
increased his indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  and he lost 
out as a result.
Did Sunny act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Sunny acted unfairly  or unreasonably towards  Mr D in some  other  
way.  
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
As Sunny has already  conceded in relation to the first advancement of credit   the flex credit 
account  then I include it here within  the putting things right section for ease of reference.  
refund  all interest and charges Mr D paid on all of the loans  1 to 27; and
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative payment information about the flex credit account  from Mr Ds 
credit file; and
the number  of loans taken from Loan 2 means any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about  Loans 2 to 27 should  be removed from Mr Ds credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ds complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, should pay redress as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I need to ask Mr D to accept or reject 
my final determination  on or before 19 April 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2985830