K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plc. He isnt happy  about the way it has dealt
with a claim under his motor insurance policy.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr A initially  made a claim through AXA in November 2016 after he was involved in an
accident. It asked  him to provide a sketch of the accident and his representative called to
say that he was advancing things  himself through his own repairing garage. So, AXA
cancelled its approved repairer  and stopped  looking into his claim when Mr A didnt respond
to questions about the accident.
Mr A advanced his claim through a credit hire company  and his own solicitor  directly with the
other insurer. When liability  was disputed Mr A, and his representatives, looked to go back to
AXA and restart his claim.  But Mr As chosen repairer (through the credit hire company) had
charged storage  fees for the car. So, when the claim was eventually brought  to AXA it was
happy to look at the claim but wouldnt pay the storage charges as it wasnt  responsible for
them.
Mr A complained to this service as he wasnt happy about this. He thought that AXA was
trying not to deal with his claim by not paying  the storage charges. While AXA offered to pay
£250 compensation in acknowledgement of its poor service  and some  of the delays.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr A and partly upheld his complaint.  She thought that
AXA should  pay a contribution towards the storage  costs incurred for the time that it was on
notice that Mr As car was held in storage until the time it highlighted this to Mr A (August
2017 to May 2018).
Although she accepted  that AXA acted reasonably in not advancing  the claim initially, as
Mr As representative told it he was dealing with things direct,  she thought  that it should pay
a further £250 compensation  for the poor communication  and delay.
AXA accepted that it couldve communicated with Mr A more clearly and agreed to pay the
additional £250 compensation. But it didnt feel that it should be held responsible for the
storage costs as it didnt  arrange them. While Mr A and his representative thought  AXA was
trying to avoid paying the claim and that it should  be held responsible  for the storage costs
from at least June 2017.
As both sides didnt agree the matter  has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted that AXA should consider the claim and it has said it will if it can inspect the
car and advance the claim. So, the issue I need  to consider is whether it is responsible, in
anyway, for the storage costs Mr A has incurred after he tried to get his claim settled direct
Ref: DRN21055902with the third party insurer. And whether  it has offered a fair amount of compensation in
acknowledgement of its delay  and poor service  when  Mr A brought  the claim back to AXA to
advance.
I think it is pretty clear that Mr A, through various representatives, organised  the repair of his
car himself through a credit hire company. And when that didnt go to plan, and he was held
at fault for the accident, he looked to claim under his car insurance policy.
I can understand why Mr A looked to do this and it does appear that AXA couldve been
more proactive when  it eventually  became clear  that Mr A wanted to make  a claim. It has
acknowledged some  delay which it has offered £250 compensation for, but I think £500
more adequately reflects the stress and inconvenience caused to Mr A.
But I dont think it would  be fair to hold AXA to account for any of the storage costs. I say this
as it didnt have  anything to do with arranging  for the car to be repaired or stored in the first
place. Mr A organised  this, perhaps with advice  from his representatives,  and Ive seen
various credit hire agreements signed by Mr A that make it clear  that he was responsible for
the storage costs  incurred.
I take the adjudicators point that AXA couldve  highlighted the position, especially the fact
that storage  costs  were being incurred,  to Mr A when it became clear that he was looking to
advance a claim. But I think it is unlikely that Mr A wouldve done  anything different had it
have done so.
I say this as Mr A was clearly aware  his car was in storage and that it was incurring storage
costs (as evidenced by the various signed  repair, recovery  and storage agreements).  I
presume Mr A wouldve  paid to move it to free storage if he could afford  to when he realised
that the claim wasnt going to be settled non-fault. I dont think that AXA writing to him at that
stage would have  made any difference, especially as the costs  at that stage were already
significant. So, as Mr A was aware that his car was being stored at a cost at this point  he
couldve taken action  to mitigate his position.  This wouldve stemmed  the spiralling costs and
Mr A either chose not to or simply couldnt afford to and I dont think that any further notice
from AXA wouldve prompted a different  response.
Had the claim been advanced  through  AXA in the first instance it would have looked  to
repair Mr As car or write it off at an early stage. And if that didnt work out for any reason I 
agree that it would be responsible for any storage costs incurred. However, Mr A chose to
advance things directly  with the third party insurer through  a claims management company.
AXA didnt refer him to a credit hire company or give him any advice around the time of claim
so I cant hold it responsible for the storage costs  that Mr A agreed to through  his credit hire
company.
Ultimately, Ive seen nothing to suggest  that Mr A wouldve paid the storage costs (totalling
around £6,000  at that time) had AXA have made him aware at an earlier  stage. I wouldve
expected Mr A to attempt  to mitigate the costs he was incurring but I dont think he was in a
position to do so. And as AXA wasnt responsible  in anyway  for putting the car in storage I
dont think it would be fair to ask it to pay these costs now.  So, despite my natural sympathy
for Mr A, who seems  to have been  poorly advised,  I dont think it would be fair to hold AXA to
account for the storage  costs he chose to incur.
Ref: DRN21055903replies
AXA didnt respond while Mr A responded in detail.  But, in the main he made  comments  that 
Id already considered and provided copy documents that I had already gone over.
Ultimately, Mr A felt that the adjudicators original position was fair. He felt that AXA should  
be responsible  for the storage costs from the moment  it was made aware that his car was in 
storage and that he wanted to claim under his policy.
Mr A feels  that storage costs would always have been incurred and that AXA should be held 
responsible from this point in time.  He feels that it is trying to avoid paying his claim. And 
says that the company that is holding his car in storage is acting more than reasonably as it 
is happy to negotiate the total storage costs down.
Mr A has also highlighted that his car is a write-off and that AXA is allowed to inspect the car 
at the storage yard, just not take it away. Mr A also highlights again that he feels that AXA is 
just trying to avoid paying the claim.
Mr A has also pointed  out that the car wasnt at a repairers and that it was just kept in 
storage. And he feels that I am being biased against  the credit  hire company and his 
representatives as he feels that I have sided  with the insurance company.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I wish to reassure Mr A that I have gone over the details of the complaint and all of the 
evidence provided.  Having done so, and despite  my natural sympathy for the position Mr A 
finds himself,  Im not upholding his complaint.
Mr A seems  to believe that his car was always going to incur  storage charges no matter  
what, but that isnt correct. If Mr A had simply advanced his claim through  his insurance 
company at the very beginning  then AXA would have  dealt  with his claim without any 
storage costs. AXA has arrangements with its repairing agents which  mean it doesnt 
generally incur charges.  It would have looked  at the damage to Mr As car and either 
repaired it or written it off without the need for any storage charges.
But Mr A chose not pursue a claim through his insurer and tried to use a credit  hire company 
to advance his claim  directly through the other  sides insurer. This took a while  and started 
the process of incurring  storage charges. These charges were significant by the time Mr A 
looked to make a claim under his insurance policy months later. And as AXA didnt put the 
car in storage or negotiate the storage costs deal it would  be difficult to hold it responsible  for 
the storage costs  incurred.
Ive highlighted  within my provisional decision that I thought Mr A wouldnt have been able to 
pay these charges when he did look to make  a claim under his insurance  policy. And he 
would have to pay the storage costs to release  his car to AXA in order that his claim could 
be considered. But Mr A hasnt told me how he would have done this in his response.  He 
has simply suggested that the company  dealing  with the storage costs  would have acted  
reasonably.
Ref: DRN21055904But all of this isnt AXAs responsibility. And Im not comfortable with the idea that the 
storage company would  waive other  storage costs  other than the amount Mr A and his 
representative thinks AXA is responsible for. 
Ultimately, as AXA didnt  agree  to the storage costs. And Ive not been provided with any 
evidence to suggest that Mr A was able to pay to have his car released from storage when 
AXA was made  aware he was looking  to make a claim under his insurance policy.  As such,  
Im not persuaded that AXA should pay any of the storage costs  that Mr A agreed to pay and 
it had nothing to do with arranging. 
I note that Mr A has suggested  that the company storing his car would now be happy  to have 
his car inspected.  But it wont  allow  the car to be removed from the storage yard because of 
outstanding costs. Ill simply leave it to Mr A and AXA to see if they can arrange an 
inspection of his car now in order  to move the outstanding claim aspect forward.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2105590