K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that The Funding Corporation  (2) Limited is charging him for repairs  on a 
car for which  he voluntarily terminated  the finance  agreement almost a year earlier.
background
Mr M purchased a car using a Hire Purchase Agreement from The Funding Corporation  in 
May 2015. He decided  to voluntarily terminate the agreement once he had paid over 50% of 
the instalments  as he was able to secure cheaper  finance for another  car at that point. Mr M 
says he was told to take the car to his local auction  house which  he did before collecting his 
new car. Mr M says that almost a year later a debt collection agency contacted him to say he 
had an outstanding bill with The Funding Corporation for work  that was required on the car 
after hed returned it. Mr M says he has a receipt  from the auction  house that says the car 
was delivered in good condition  and that the subsequent inspection was carried  out two 
weeks after hed returned the car. He adds that he was also told the sat-nav  was not 
working, but that the SD card hed purchased for it was found  to be missing.
The Funding Corporation  says it issued Mr M a Voluntary Termination letter  on 8 August 
2017 that states that if the car does require any rectifications to bring it up to standard,  [he] 
will be liable for these . It says it wouldnt repair the vehicle  before auction, so it should  be 
returned in retail condition and Mr M would be liable for any difference  between  the Car 
Auction Price (CAP) Clean and the actual sale price.  In this case  the difference was £777.76  
but, as a gesture of goodwill for the delay in telling Mr M, The Funding Corporation  said it 
would accept £388.88 in full and final settlement.  Although  it acknowledges the receipt Mr M 
received from the auction house  stating  the car was in good condition,  it says this was a 
generic receipt  and the car hadnt been independently appraised.  It says an inspection  was 
carried out on 3 October  2017 which showed a number of issues.  The Funding Corporation 
confirmed, however, that the issue with the sat-nav would not have affected  Mr Ms liability.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She explained that the 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines state that Mr M should 
have been informed of any charges for damage  within four weeks. She adds that she has 
also considered  what should be fair wear and tear and was unable to conclude  that any of 
the damage was unreasonable in that context. Our adjudicator accepted,  however, that one 
of the areas of damage would be chargeable if The Funding Corporation could prove it 
wasnt present when Mr M bought the car.
The Funding Corporation  responded to say, in summary,  that it had no further  evidence,  and 
had taken into account the age of the vehicle  when making its charging decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr M decided  to voluntarily terminate his agreement,  this allowed him to hand  the car 
back to The Funding  Corporation with nothing further to pay. That is because  Mr M had 
already paid more  than half the total amount  payable under the agreement.  However, under 
the terms of the hire purchase agreement The Funding Corporation was entitled  to check  
that Mr M had returned the car in good repair and condition. If it considered he hadnt  then 
it was also entitled  to invoice him for the cost of repairs or the predicted loss of value.
Ref: DRN24308842In this case, The Funding Corporation assessed that Mr M hadnt taken reasonable care of 
the car and there was a loss of value based on the difference between what  the car was sold 
for at auction and the CAP Clean  price. It backed  this up with an inspection report that listed  
a number of areas of damage to the car.
Ive looked at the report and considered  each identified issue  in the context of a nine-year-
old car with over 80,000 miles on the clock.  Based on this, and paying  due regard to the 
BVRLA guidelines, Im not persuaded that any of the areas of damage  fall outside the remit 
of fair wear  and tear. The one exception  to this would be the apparent burn mark to the roof 
lining, but The Funding Corporation has not been  able to provide evidence that this wasnt  
there when  Mr M purchased the car.
Given the above, and the fact that Mr M knew nothing  about the additional  charges for 
several months when  the BVRLA  guidelines say he should have been informed within  four 
weeks, I dont find its fair or reasonable for The Funding Corporation  to pursue this 
additional charge. I accept it has now offered to reduce the charge by 50%, as a goodwill 
gesture, but I dont  consider this goes far enough and find the charge should be waived 
completely.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. The Funding Corporation  (2) Limited  should  
waive any charges  it considers to be due from Mr M and ensure any debt collecting agencies 
are informed that there is no money owed by Mr M. It should also remove  any adverse 
information from Mr Ms credit file if there has been any recorded  in relation to this charge, 
and tell any debt collection  agencies to do the same.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2430884