K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that Yorkshire Building Society, trading at the time as Norwich & Peterborough 
Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Ill refer to the 
business as Yorkshire in my decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs H or Yorkshire sent me anything further to consider.  Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative asked  for an extension to respond  to my provisional decision - which  was     
approved.   
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN27273852my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
But Yorkshire Building Society, trading  at the time as Norwich & Peterborough  Building Society 
does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN27273853copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 1998. Mr 
and Mrs H say Yorkshire Building Society, trading at the time as Norwich & Peterborough Building  
Society mis-sold  them the PPI. Ill refer to the business as Yorkshire  in my decision. The policy  
covered Mrs H. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Mr and Mrs H have complained that the PPI was compulsory but that they received a renewal  letter  in 
2012 describing it as optional.  Mr and Mrs H feel that they have been unnecessarily paying for PPI. 
Im currently  not intending  to uphold this complaint  because:
Ive looked at the available paperwork from the sale in 1998. I can confirm that the PPI was 
compulsory in order  to receive a 2% discount on the mortgage for 18 months. The mortgage offer 
states: This concession (the discount) is subject to you complying with our Rules and with the 
following conditions..  It goes on to say .(b) Accident, sickness  and unemployment cover being  
arranged through our agency and maintained for the period of the concession.
So, to avail of the discounted rate, one of the conditions was that Mr and Mrs H had to take out 
PPI and keep it for the duration  of the concession period - which was 18 months. After this 
period, in my opinion, it appears that they couldve  cancelled the PPI.
Mr and Mrs H have said that it wasnt until they received a renewal letter  in 2012 describing the 
PPI as optional that they realised they could cancel  it. 
But I havent  seen strong enough evidence to uphold  this complaint for this reason. I say this for a 
number of reasons which Ive explained below:
oYorkshire has confirmed that the PPI being compulsory for 18 months was a condition of 
the discounted  mortgage rate and not because of the mortgage being  for a self-build  
property as Mr and Mrs H have complained.  
Ive also not seen  any evidence to support what Mr and Mrs H have said about the PPI 
being compulsory because of the self-build  mortgage. Therefore, it would seem 
reasonable to assume that if Mr and Mrs H wanted a mortgage for a self-build property - 
without PPI, they had the option of not taking this particular mortgage with the compulsory 
PPI either with this lender or a different  lender.  
oThe PPI continued and the benefit level was increased in 2003 when 
Mr and Mrs H took a further advance on their mortgage. Ive seen some of the paperwork 
completed from this time.  In my opinion, in 2003, the policy  was amended rather  than a 
new policy being sold.  
Section 16 of this 2003 further advance application form states .To take advantage  of 
this cover (PPI), please complete the Safeguard Application form and direct debit 
mandate in Section 20.
Ref: DRN27273854Section 20 is headed Safeguard application  form. It states Please provide all the 
information requested and sign the declaration overleaf and the direct debit mandate  on 
the next page.  
It then states, If you want to amend your existing  Safeguard cover,  please  tick this 
boxand confirm your existing Norwich and Peterborough mortgage account number. 
The further advance offer dated 10 January 2003 doesnt make any reference to PPI 
being compulsory as a condition of the further borrowing. 
On page three, under heading 6, it states  You are therefore strongly advised if you have 
not already done so, to take out appropriate insurance  cover. Which provides 
protection in the event  of accident, sickness or unemployment.  Please contact us for 
further information about  Safeguard.
oYorkshire has also told us that Mr and Mrs H changed their Buildings and Contents 
insurance to another  provider in 2006. This is relevant as Buildings and contents 
insurance was also a condition  the same as PPI was, for 18 months after the mortgage 
started in 1998. Therefore, it would seem  reasonable  to assume  that Mr and Mrs H were 
aware that the insurance taken  could  be changed or cancelled after the 18 month 
concession period.
Therefore, on balance,  in this particular case - based on everything I've seen, I think  its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were aware  that PPI was compulsory for the duration of the 
concession period  - 18 months from the mortgage starting. I also think  that its more  likely than 
not that they chose to keep PPI until 2012 when they then chose to cancel  it.
Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Yorkshire  gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And 
it seems like it would have  been useful for them if something went  wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means  Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to                  Mr and 
Mrs H.
But Yorkshire  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
When the policy was sold, Yorkshire  expected to get a high level of commission  and    profit share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because 
Yorkshire didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs to do
Ref: DRN27273855Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit  share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  Yorkshire should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any extra  interest they paid 
because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back  to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire  should also pay Mr and Mrs H 
8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but I do 
intend to tell Yorkshire  Building Society  - if it hasnt already  done so, to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
 
If either Mr and Mrs H or Yorkshire Building Society have  anything further to add, they should  do so 
by 13 March  2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2727385