K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W through their solicitor H complain  that Aviva  Insurance  Limited acted unfairly 
and unreasonably by declining their claim under a legal expenses  insurance policy. They  
want the claim paid.
background
Mr and Mrs W had a legal expenses insurance  policy with Aviva. They brought a claim 
against third parties,  and Aviva agreed  to allow Mr and Mrs W to use their choice  of solicitor, 
H. An agreement between  H and Aviva was reached,  which included incorporation of the 
policy terms requiring Avivas authority to settle claims. The legal proceedings were settled 
through mediation without the third party accepting liability or agreeing to pay any of 
Mr and Mrs Ws legal costs. 
Before going to mediation,  H talked to Aviva and then received an email about the need for 
authorisation to any settlement. The key words  were:
With regard to phoning us when an offer is on the table, we would only need this if it is an 
offer for costs that you would not be happy  to agree to without  your shortfall  being  
considered by [Aviva].
Aviva said that this email  (and the earlier  calls)  told H to get authorisation to settle if a claim 
for legal costs was to be made under the policy. In other words, if the solicitor was intending  
to claim costs from Aviva on top of any cost recovery from the third party, Avivas 
authorisation was needed. The email went on to mention  that H needed to remember  that 
not all of the costs  would be recoverable  due to assessment.
Aviva declined to pay the legal  costs  claimed.  It said that its authority was required to settle a 
claim when  there was no provision for costs made. No such  authority  was given so it 
wouldnt pay the legal costs claimed.  Aviva  also referred to the numerous clauses within the 
policy about the need to get its authorisation to settle.
H complained to Aviva, saying that authority had been given in advance through  the email  to 
the solicitor prior to the mediation and pointing out that Mr and Mrs W were required to follow  
the legal  advice given (which was to accept the offer made  at mediation) or lose cover  under 
the policy. Aviva said that the failure  to comply with the terms and conditions of the policy 
meant that the claim for legal costs remained declined. It said that H was told it only didnt 
need to get authorisation  to settle  if no claim for legal costs would be made  under  the policy. 
Aviva also highlighted  the requirement on H to explain  why settlement was advised  when 
getting such authorisation.
H complained to us, saying that Aviva didnt  suffer any loss if prior authority wasnt  given and 
its position was unfair  and unreasonable. It also argued that Aviva  was estopped from 
refusing to consider the claim or had waived  its ability to require its authority to settle the 
legal proceedings. H also said that consumer law required  the payment  be made.
The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said that in the calls 
between H and Aviva  just before mediation,  H was told he had to get authorisation to settle if 
a claim under the policy was to be made, and this was confirmed in the email.  The 
investigator said that under the terms and conditions of the policy, Avivas  authorisation was 
required and without  it, it was fair and reasonable to decline Mr and Mrs Ws claim.
Ref: DRN27470642H disagreed. It said it hadnt  been  made  aware of the call recordings and the investigators 
view was fundamentally flawed. H made the point  that Aviva  was relying on the alleged  
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the policy  to avoid payment, when it 
couldnt show that it suffered a loss. Mrs W also called us to say that she felt stuck between 
H and Aviva. The investigator didnt change her view and said that Avivas position  was 
prejudiced by the failure to get its consent to settle the claim as it was denied  the option  to 
continue the claim and get the legal costs  by winning the case in court.  H asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and set out its view of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Aviva in this decision, Im 
also referring to its agent where relevant. I can only deal with the complaint against Aviva; 
any issues that Mr and Mrs W may have with H is outside the jurisdiction of this service and 
should be raised with H directly (and the Legal Ombudsman if necessary).
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions  of the policy (as well as the agreement between  H and Aviva) are 
clear  Avivas authorisation is required to settle the claim, otherwise no payment of legal 
costs may be made. But while this service considers the law and legal agreements  made,  if 
its fair and reasonable to require a financial business to act otherwise, I can and will make 
such a direction. Its important to point out though that this service isnt a court  of law and 
complex legal  arguments  may be best left to the court  to determine  I have no point to 
finally decide such points.  I have borne in mind the legal  arguments  though  when 
considering whats  fair and reasonable.
The starting point  is what was the email  from Aviva saying about  the need  for authorisation 
at mediation? I accept  Hs point  that mediation  often continues after normal working hours  
and it was concerned  that it wouldnt be able to get Avivas authorisation in time. And I 
understand that mediations often do require  a binding agreement to be signed  at the end, 
rather than left to the next day, in order to be successful. But Aviva gave contact details if 
needed at mediation and it is possible to get authorisation during mediation  if needed.
The email  from Aviva couldve  been  clearer, but it was sent to a qualified solicitor so the 
complexity of the language used isnt unreasonable  and critically it follows  up on two 
telephone conversations.  This service received the call recordings (and the notes made  by 
Aviva at the time). During those calls, Aviva  said that if H was happy  with the costs he would  
receive from the settlement without claiming anything  from Aviva,  he didnt  need  
authorisation, but if he would be seeking payment from Aviva, he did need authorisation. H 
told Aviva  that he expected to recover something towards the legal costs  from the mediation.
I dont think the email from Aviva says what H believes  it said  the natural interpretation of 
the words is that if the solicitor is going to ask Aviva  to pay anything towards the legal costs 
(your shortfall),  its permission was needed  to accept.  This is the issue that all the clauses 
within the policy and agreement with H were designed to address; Aviva didnt want  to face a 
claim for legal costs if it hadnt  approved  the deal which  settled the underlying legal 
proceedings. And this conclusion is supported by the contents of the calls between H and 
Aviva before mediation.
Ref: DRN27470643Mr and Mrs W, on Hs advice, accepted  an offer which  contained no payment towards  legal 
costs whatsoever.  Given Hs previous advice to Aviva about the value of the claim and the 
good prospects  of success, I can understand why Aviva was unhappy not to be consulted, 
particularly when the member of staff dealing with the issue gave H her contact details if 
required to get authorisation at the mediation.  And the policy  does require the policyholder to 
take every  step to recover the legal costs  of any claim. Theres no suggestion that the third 
parties involved wouldnt be able to afford  to pay any successful claim if the matter  went  all 
the way to trial.
I dont think Aviva waived or is estopped  from relying on the terms and conditions  of the 
policy and the agreement with H by the email in question,  and I dont think  that it would be 
fair or reasonable  for me to set aside the contractual provisions  on this basis.
I thought about  generally whether it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to refuse to pay 
anything towards Mr and Mrs Ws legal costs.  As H would put it, what loss did Aviva  suffer?  
Aviva has been denied the opportunity to try to recover the legal costs; while  H advised  that 
no better offer was likely, it hasnt  explained in detail  why it wasnt  worth considering going to 
court, particularly in light of its previous  advice.  If the offer at mediation  had been  rejected, 
its possible a higher offer wouldve been  made closer to trial. Of course, its equally possible 
no such offer would be made. 
Aviva has lost the chance to be involved and make its own decision, due to the failure to get 
authorisation. Its also lost the chance to influence the settlement discussions and their 
outcome. Aviva has suffered a prejudice  and Im satisfied this constitutes a loss justifying  the 
refusal to pay any of the claimed legal costs.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 March  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2747064