K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was unaware PPI had been  sold alongside the credit  card.  Halifax  has 
given me a copy of the signed  credit  agreement from the time of the sale.  In this there 
was a separate section for additional products. An X has been  printed onto the page  
next to PPI, indicating  that Mr M wanted  to buy it. I can see the box next to card  
protection has been left blank,  so I think Mr M was aware he could pick and choose  
what products he wanted.
Ive considered the fact that the X was printed onto the page. I can see Mr Ms personal  
information such as his address and employment details have also been printed onto the 
application form. Because of this I think the form was completed following a conversation 
about Mr Ms personal circumstances. Considering everything, I think  Halifax made it 
clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  significantly affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr M isnt sure how much sick pay or savings he had at the time of the sale. The PPI 
policy couldve covered  him for up to 12 months if he had an accident or was too ill to 
work; and for up to ten months if he was made redundant. On balance,  I think its more  
likely he couldve  found the benefits useful. It also looks like the policy  was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr M.
Ref: DRN20685942my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2068594