K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains, on behalf of Miss B and himself,  about how National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) handled their request for a new cheque book.
background
Mr and Miss B have a joint account  with NatWest but live in different parts  of the country. 
In April 2018 Mr B went to his local branch and requested a new cheque book be sent to 
Miss Bs address. But it was sent to Mr B, so he went back  into branch. NatWest  told him the 
system automatically sends cheque  books to the statement address for the account  this 
was Mr Bs. So, they suggested he temporarily  change the statement address to Miss Bs 
and order a new cheque  book. Mr B agreed  but the second cheque  book was sent to him. 
Mr B said he was later told Miss B would have to go into her local branch to order  a cheque  
book instead.  In the end, Miss B visited Mr B to collect the cheque book. 
Mr B complained to NatWest and they apologised. NatWest said that when  he first ordered 
the cheque book, Mr B should have been  told it could only be delivered to the statement 
address. NatWest also explained that they couldnt  see any record  of the statement address 
being changed after Mr B went into branch. But NatWest accepted Mr Bs account of what  
had happened  and said the request to do this must  have been lost within their systems. 
They offered  Mr B £20 compensation.
Mr B didnt think this was fair and so brought the complaint to our service.  
Mr B told us hed first tried to get this cheque book in October 2017. Mr B said he wrote to 
NatWest in December  2017 and complained in January 2018. Mr B provided us with the 
complaint letter he sent in January which showed hed been requesting information on my 
joint accounts.  But Mr B says he received no response to any of his letters.
Mr B felt he should be compensated £300  for the delay, misleading  information and poor 
service. 
Our adjudicator suggested NatWest pay a further  £100 for the inconvenience caused 
because Mr B had to go to the branch on two occasions. NatWest  didnt accept  this, 
explaining Mr B lives less than a mile from his branch. So, the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
At my request, our service  tried to contact Mr B to get more  information about the complaint 
and impact.  But unfortunately, we havent  received a reply. So, Ive based  my decision on 
the evidence available  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B told us he first requested a new cheque book in October 2017. But NatWest have no 
record of a request  until April 2018.  Where evidence is conflicting, I need  to decide whats 
more likely to have  happened.  
Ref: DRN26584332We havent been able to get information from Mr B about how he requested  a cheque book 
in 2017. And I can see no record  of this in NatWests contact notes or in the list of cheque  
books ordered  for that account.
Mr B has sent us his complaint letter from January 2018, and I can see he raised concerns 
with NatWest at that time. But the letter mentions a request  for information, not a cheque 
book. And in his April 2018 complaint  letter, Mr B is quite clear that his concerns relate  to a 
cheque book. So, I think its more  likely  hed have  mentioned the cheque book if that was the 
subject of his complaint  in January 2018.  
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think there  is enough evidence  to suggest Mr B 
requested a cheque book  before April 2018.  
But Ive considered Mr Bs more  general concerns about the lack of response to his letters  in 
December 2017  and January 2018.  NatWest have  no record of receiving these letters,  but 
Mr B has shown  us a letter dated January 2018. So, I think  its likely he wrote to NatWest  
around this time. 
And I think its most likely NatWest received his January  2018  letter  because  it was sent to 
the same  address as his later complaint  letter which they responded to. I would also expect 
NatWest to respond when  a customer raises concerns. So, I agree with Mr B that they didnt 
provide very good service here.
NatWest have also accepted that they should have provided better service following the April 
cheque book request.
So, I then considered the impact of these issues on Mr and Miss B. 
As a result of the cheque book error, there was a delay in Miss B receiving this. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I think this delay was just over a month,  rather  than the six 
months Mr B suggested. And whilst it shouldnt have taken this long for Miss B to get her 
cheque book, I dont  think this delay was lengthy.  
I recognise Mr B has told us he was inconvenienced by this, but I have no information as to 
how. So, based on the evidence available to me, the only inconvenience  I can see here is 
the additional contact he had to have with NatWest and the arrangements  he had to make to 
get the cheque book  to Miss B.
Mr B visited  his branch  twice about  the cheque book. But I think one of these trips was to 
request the cheque  book initially and so I dont think this was a result  of NatWests mistake. 
And I think that one extra branch visit and a complaint letter  to NatWest cant  be considered 
a substantial inconvenience. In reaching  this view Ive noted that Mr B didnt live too far away 
from the bank and Ive seen  no evidence  to suggest  Mr Bs circumstances made this trip 
particularly difficult.
But having  read Mr Bs letters to the bank and us, I can see that he was frustrated by the 
delay and misleading information.  I also appreciate that Mr B felt the lack of response to his 
complaint letter/s  frustrating. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think £120 compensation is fair in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN26584333my final decision
For the reasons  I've given,  I uphold this complaint. I direct National Westminster  Bank Plc to 
pay Mr and Miss B £120 compensation  in total.  
Im aware that National Westminster Bank  Plc has made an offer to pay £20. National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr and Miss B the £20, if it already hasnt done so, plus 
an additional  £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2658433