K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. in connection with a guaranteed  asset protection (GAP) insurance  policy.
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents
background
In 2016 Mr C bought a new car and took out a GAP policy.  He believed hed bought a policy 
with a 48 month term that would match the term of the finance agreement  for buying his car. 
Roughly three years later he phoned  Mapfre as he was thinking  of part exchanging his car. 
Mapfre told him that the correct term for his policy was 36 months rather than 48 months.
Mr C complained. Mapfre agreed that its paperwork indicated that it would provide cover for 
48 months. So it said it would honour  that commitment or, if Mr C cancelled  his policy,  
provide a proportionate  refund on the basis of a 48 month policy.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 23 October 2019. For 
ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it.  
In bringing this complaint Mr C has said that the policy was mis-sold, hes also complained 
that the selling dealer was paid commission.  But Mapfre  didn't sell the policy the car 
dealership did. And the dealership is a separate body from Mapfre  and its also regulated  by 
the Financial Conduct Authority. And that means that the dealership is itself responsible for 
responding to complaints about  the sale of the policy. So I don't intend to deal with Mr Cs 
complaints about  the policys mis-sale  in this decision.
Mr C has argued  that Mapfre varied  the term of his policy  and in doing so nullified it. So he 
believes hes entitled to a full refund of its premium.  But I don't agree. As I've said above, 
Mapfre weren't responsible for the sale of the policy. But it seems that the dealer  charged  
Mr C for a 36 month policy but provided him with details of cover for a 48 month policy. So 
Mapfre thought  Mr Cs policy ran for 36 months while Mr Cs paperwork said it ran for 
48 months. So I can understand why Mr C wasnt happy when Mapfre told him the correct 
term for his policy was actually 36 months.
But Mapfre  acknowledged  in its complaint  response that it would be unfair to impose the 
36 month term. So it said that it would honour the policy  for the full 48 months. Alternatively if 
Mr C wanted to cancel  the policy, it would provide a proportionate refund based on a 
48 month policy term. In other  words  Mapfre said that it would treat the policy as if it did run 
for 48 months, which was what Mr C believed hed paid for. And, in doing so, I don't  think 
that the policy was nullified,  as Mapfre was prepared to honour  it in exactly  the way Mr C 
wanted when  he took it out. So with the exception  of being inconvenienced into making a 
complaint, I don't think he's suffered any disadvantage in terms of how the policy operated.  
Mr Cs said that wasn't  the case and that Mapfre said it couldn't honour a 48 month 
agreement. But I've listened to the call when  Mapfre told Mr C about the discrepancy with 
the duration of the policy. And he didn't discuss what would happen if he needed to make  a 
Ref: DRN28866802claim after 36 months. So I don't  think Mapfre did say it wouldn't honour a 48 month 
agreement. But even if it had it put that right in its complaints response when it said: if you 
[Mr C] are keeping the vehicle, I [Mapfre]  will honour  the coverage  for the period of 
48 months as stated in the documents you have received. Something  it repeated  in its 
follow up response. So Im satisfied  that Mapfre did agree to honour the full 48 month  term of 
the contract  as set out in Mr Cs policy documents.
Mr Cs also complained that Mapfre told him he couldn't transfer  the policy to another car. 
Cs policy would only have allowed him to transfer it to another car if his original  car had 
been declared a total loss and replaced by his motor  insurers within  12 months  of purchase. 
That wasn't the case here so the policy terms simply didn't entitle Mr C to transfer the policy 
to another car regardless of the confusion over its duration:
Mr Cs told us that he actually sold his car in April 2019 and that he couldn't  benefit from 
transferring it to another policy because the term had already  ended.  But as I've said above, 
Mr Cs policy  wouldnt have entitled  him to transfer  it to another  car so he hasn't lost out. And 
at the outset of his complaint Mapfre offered Mr C a pro rata refund if he wanted to cancel 
the policy. And I think thats reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr Cs also complained that Mapfre told him he couldn't buy a policy  from it directly but that 
he was then able to do so. But I understand that the agent Mr C spoke with doesn't have the 
relevant permission to sell policies. So I don't think it did anything wrong in telling  Mr C that it 
couldn't sell him a policy, as that was factually accurate. 
So having  considered Mr Cs complaints very carefully Im satisfied that, after he 
complained, Mapfre  took the appropriate  steps to put things right. In that it essentially 
honoured the initial term of the 48 month contract or offered  a proportionate refund if Mr C 
chose to cancel  the policy. I think that was the right thing to do. 
But Mr C was put to some trouble by that fact that Mapfre initially told him that the cover  it 
provided wasn't the cover Mr C believed hed bought. And I note that it hadn't notified  Mr C 
of this when it discovered its error some years  earlier. And I think at that point it should  have 
notified Mr C of the mistake and what it was doing  to put things right. But it didn't  do so. And 
its clear that this matter  has been  a source  of some distress and inconvenience to Mr C. So 
to address that I think Mapfre should  pay him £50 compensation.
developments 
Mapfre pointed out an error in the background of my provisional decision where I referred  to 
Mr C having contacted it roughly three  months after he bought his policy, when  in fact it was 
some years later. But it otherwise accepted my provisional decision.
Mr C didn't accept my provisional  decision. He made a number of detailed points. I don't 
intend to repeat everything hes said here but the key points  are as follows: 
He said that he initially  contacted  Mapfre around three years rather than three 
months after buying the policy,  as Id said in my provisional decision.  
He had complained about the sale of the policy to the relevant business (the broker) 
and said that I should  await the outcome of the brokers investigation into his 
complaint before  I finalised my decision.  He said that if the broker  hadn't  mis-sold the 
policy then that meant  that Mapfre had unlawfully  amended  the policy details.  Mr C 
Ref: DRN28866803said that if I awaited the outcome of the brokers investigation then I might alter my 
decision on this complaint.
The legal position is that he was entitled to treat the GAP contract as rescinded.
Mapfres initial advice that he wasnt allowed  to transfer his policy prejudiced  his 
position, because  the offer to transfer only came after he had already sold the car 
and after hed complained to us.
There might be calls I haven't listened to as he recalls Mapfre specifically saying that 
he couldn't transfer the policy to his new car.
Mapfres offers of a resolution were too little too late as hed already part 
exchanged the car concerned.
He said that £50 compensation I intended  to award was derisory.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I don't intend  to change 
my provisional decision. 
the background to my provisional decision 
Both Mapfre and Mr C have pointed out a clear error in the background of my provisional 
decision where I said that Mr C had complained about the sale of the policy  roughly three 
months after he bought  it. In fact Mr C bought the policy  on 6 April 2016  and contacted  
Mapfre on 2 April 2019, which is clearly  almost three years.  I apologise for my error. But I 
was aware of the actual timescales involved so my mistake which was akin to a slip of the 
pen didn't affect my reasoning when arriving at my provisional decision.
mis-sale investigation
Mr C said I should await the outcome of the brokers investigation into his complaint about 
the mis-sale as that might affect the decision in this case. Thats not something I need to do. 
Mapfre has explained that the premium  the broker charged was appropriate for a three years 
policy, although the broker issued paperwork for a four year policy.  So I don't think this is a 
case of Mapfre amending policy details but instead  of it being unaware that the broker  had 
charged the wrong premium or issued the wrong  paperwork. In other words Mapfre thought,  
because of the premium  it had received,  that the broker had sold a three  year policy  when it 
had actually told Mr C it was a four year policy. I don't think  the findings  of the brokers 
investigation into Mr Cs complaint about  the mis-sale will alter my consideration of Mapfres  
part in this. And even if it turns out that the mistake was entirely at Mapfres  end then, as I've 
said in this decision, I think Mapfre has generally  done enough  to put things right.
Mr Cs view on his legal  position
Mr Cs said that he believes that the legal position is that hes entitled  to treat the GAP  
contract as rescinded. Its not my role to decide what  the legal position is. And while  Ill take 
into account things  like the relevant law, my role is to decide what  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome to a complaint based on its specific facts. And thats what  I did when arriving  at my 
Ref: DRN28866804provisional decision. Also, I've considered all those factors again when considering this final 
decision. 
Further, as Mr C is aware if he doesn't  agree  with my decision  he doesn't have to accept it 
and won't be bound by it. That means he can take whatever other action, for example 
through the courts,  he feels is necessary to resolve his complaint.
transferring the policy to another car
In his response to my provisional decision Mr C has several times mentioned that Mapfre 
only offered him the prospect of transferring his policy after hed already sold his car and 
after hed complained. But as far as I can see Mapfre has never  offered Mr C the option of 
transferring his policy to another car.
It might help if I repeat parts of my provisional decision where I said:
[Mr] Cs policy would  only have allowed him to transfer it to another  car if his original car 
had been declared a total loss and replaced by his motor insurers within  12 months  of 
purchase.
And
Mr Cs policy wouldnt have entitled him to transfer  it to another car so he hasn't lost out.
It appears that Mr C might  have misunderstood  that. So it might help if I clarify that Mr Cs 
policy would only allow its transfer to another car in very specific  circumstances. Of particular 
importance to Mr C he would only have been  entitled to transfer the policy if the following 
terms were met:
within 12 months of the policys start date Mr Cs motor insurer had declared his car a 
total loss; and
his motor insurer had provided him with a replacement car.
Mr C didn't meet those  criteria. By the time he contacted Mapfre the 12 months  from its start 
date had long passed. His car had not been deemed a total loss by his motor  insurer.  And 
his motor insurer hadn't replaced the car with a new car. So, as I said in my provisional 
decision Mr C wasn't entitled  to transfer the policy to another car. Mapfre  could  have chosen,  
if it wished to, to allow  such  a transfer, but it's not an entitlement  of the contract. And from 
the evidence I've seen I can't find anywhere  where Mapfre, our investigator or I have 
suggested that Mapfre had offered him the option of transferring the policy to another car. It 
follows that I don't need to listen to any additional calls.  Mr C wasn't entitled to transfer the 
policy so if as he says thats what Mapfre told him then that was the correct  advice. So I 
don't think  anything Mapfre did in any way prejudiced Mr Cs position.
Mapfres efforts to put things right
In Mapfres response to Mr Cs complaint it said it would  honour the full 48 month term of his 
policy. In other words, despite the confusion over how long it should have ran, Mapfre  said it 
would treat it in exactly the same way as the policy Mr C thought hed bought.  And that 
included offering a proportionate refund if Mr C chose  to cancel it. Those terms are the same 
as in his initial policy. In other words Mapfre offered to put Mr C back into the position he 
would have been in if Mr C had received the policy he thought  hed bought from the outset. 
Ref: DRN28866805I've seen that Mapfre made this offer in its initial response to his complaint in April 2019. It 
repeated that offer in May 2019.  Both those offers  were made before Mr C complained  to us. 
And I think those offers were fair and reasonable.
Mr C said that Mapfres  offers came too little too late as hed already part exchanged his car. 
But Mapfre  told him that if he wanted  to cancel the policy it would offer a pro rata refund.  So 
the fact that hes already sold his car doesn't interfere with that offer.  He can still ask Mapfre 
for the refund if he wishes to.
Mr Cs said that Mapfre hasn't explained  what such a refund would look like. So it might help 
if I set out an example  of how that calculation  might look. But this is for illustration purposes  
only and if Mr C does wish to cancel the policy it will be for Mapfre  to do the final calculation.
Mr Cs policy  says that if he chose  to cancel the policy he would be entitled to a daily 
pro rata refund of the remaining unused term of the policy. In other words  Mapfre would work 
out how many days the policy had left to run and pay Mr C that proportion of his premium  
back compared with its initial  term.
Mr Cs policy  should have  run for 48 months beginning on 6 April 2016 and ending  on 
5 April 2020. That is 1,460 days.  If he cancelled  the policy  from the date he became 
dissatisfied with it, which was 2 April 2019,  then the policy  had 370 days  left to run. As I 
understand it Mr C paid £399 for the full premium. So, in this example, Mapfre would refund 
him [399  1460 x 370] £101.12. But the actual  calculation will be dependent on the date 
Mr C cancelled the policy from.
compensation 
Mr Cs said that the £50 compensation I provisionally awarded was derisory. He said I hadnt 
considered the fact that Mapfre hadnt notified  him of the alleged amendment. But I 
commented in my provisional  decision  findings that Mapfre hadnt notified  Mr C of this when 
it discovered its error some  years earlier. So I did take this example of poor customer 
service into account when considering a compensatory award. But while  I think Mapfre 
should have notified Mr C earlier, this didnt actually  affect him until he contacted  it about  the 
policy. At that time Mapfre responded fairly  swiftly, it acknowledged  that Mr C had been put 
into an unfair position and took reasonable steps  to put that right. That Mr C has chosen  to 
continue to pursue  his complaint and demand  a full refund of his premium was his decision. 
But I dont think a full refund is warranted, so I dont think  Mapfre  is responsible for the time 
its taken Mr C to continue  to pursue that complaint. 
It follows that Im satisfied that £50 compensation to address Mr Cs distress and 
inconvenience arising from Mapfres handling  of the matter is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint in part. I require Mapfre Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mr C £50 compensation to 
address his distress  and inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us 
telling it that Mr C has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
rate of 8% a year simple.1
Ref: DRN28866806Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Mapfre  pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr C a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate 
Ref: DRN2886680