K821x#15complaint
Mrs H has complained about advice she received, from Andrew Bourne  & Company (Life & 
Pensions), to transfer the benefits  she held in her former employers occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a personal  pension plan.
background
Mrs H already had an existing relationship with Andrew Bourne & Company when it advised  
her to transfer her deferred OPS benefits  in 1997.  There is very limited documentation  
available from the time of the sale. But Mrs H has confirmed  that she left her former  
employer and its OPS  in 1996 after having  a child. At the time of advice she was working  as 
a self-employed  childminder. And other than the OPS and any state  pension  entitlement,  
Mrs H had no other pension provisions. 
Andrew Bourne  & Company has confirmed that it first provided  advice  to Mrs H in 1994 
when she was working for her former employer. At that time it recommended that she take 
out a free standing additional contribution plan (FSAVC). She stopped the contributions to 
this plan in 1996 when  she left her former employer. At this time it appears the FSVAC was 
converted to a personal pension. 
Mrs H was advised to transfer her OPS benefits  into her existing personal pension  plan, the 
transfer completed in September 1997 and the funds  were invested in the unitised  with 
profits fund. 
In 2018, Mrs H contacted  her former  employer and obtained a copy of the deferred benefit 
statement that was sent to Andrew  Bourne  & Co at the time of advice. The statement 
showed that:
Mrs H had 16.5 years actual service with her former employer and just under 11 
years pensionable  service.
The projected revalued pension  at age 65 was £6,584 per annum.
The OPS had a 50% dependants pension. The guaranteed minimum pension 
(GMP) was fixed at 7%. There was also escalation in retirement  nil on Pre 88 
GMP, 3% on Post 88 GMP and 5% on the excess.
The OPS had a transfer value at that time of £7,379.
Mrs H complained to Andrew Bourne & Co that her plan has been mis-sold. Andrew Bourne 
& Co didnt consider the complaint as it said it had been made too late under rules  that 
apply. 
Mrs H referred  her complaint to this service. Andrew  Bourne didnt consent to us considering  
the complaint  as it said it had been made too late and so didnt fall within our jurisdiction. 
Having reviewed whether  our service had jurisdiction to consider the complaint,  I issued  a 
decision explaining  why I was satisfied the complaint had been referred in time and so could 
be considered. 
Ref: DRN22745332One of our adjudicators went on to review the merits of the complaint. Based on the 
information she had, she wasnt  satisfied that Mrs H shouldve been  advised to transfer her 
OPS. The adjudicator concluded  that: 
the almost eleven years pensionable service Mrs H had accrued in her OPS would, 
at the time, appeared to have formed a large part of her potential  retirement  benefits.
Mrs H left the OPS in 1996,  so her pension at date of leaving wouldve  been required 
to be increased between that date and her actual retirement date. And the pension  
wouldve provided for a 50% spouses pension  on Mrs Hs death.  These  couldve 
been attractive features for Mrs H at the time as the cost of providing that spouses 
pension wouldnt affect her income  unlike with a personal pension.
There are many  different  types of risk inherent  in transferring from a final salary 
scheme to a personal pension. And its difficult to say, with any degree of certainty, 
what Mrs H was told about  these  risks. It isnt clear even,  how her attitude  to risk was 
assessed as no assessment  that was carried out has survived. 
Having considered how Mrs Hs pension was invested  in the unitised with profit  
fund - this wouldve been  considered to be somewhere between a low and a medium  
risk. Mrs H now says she was and is very cautious.  On the basis the fund selection is 
the closest we have to an assessment of Mrs Hs attitude  to investment risk and 
given this, the length of her service and the probability (at the time) this pension  
would represent  a large part of her retirement funding, Mrs H shouldnt  have been 
advised to transfer  out of her OPS.
While  Mrs H had left employment,  theres not anything to suggest  that she wanted to 
totally break the link with her employer  or there were other factors with her employer 
that wouldve  meant a transfer  would have been  good advice.
Andrew Bourne  didnt accept the adjudicators  findings. Most of the points its response 
related to our jurisdiction  to consider the complaint. In summary it said that: 
The complaint  is out of time under the time limit rules.
It is clear that Mrs H received yearly  statements sent to her by Andrew Bourne and 
Scottish Widows  from the time she transferred out her OPS.  The statements Andrew 
Bourne has on file from 2004 give an estimated pension from the personal pension  at 
the selected retirement date.  These  were  sent to Mrs H every  year.  This must  mean  
that she knew what she was expecting from her personal pension  arrangement.
When the adviser carried out the transfer  in 1997, Andrew Bourne was provided with 
information from the OPS  scheme administrators. This shows  a pension  at NRD of 
£6,584. While the adviser cant remember  the specific  meeting with Mrs H, he 
wouldve told her this figure. Its not feasible to think that the adviser wouldnt have 
shown Mrs H the pension  she was giving up on transfer, or that she wouldnt have 
expected to know what she was giving up. The whole reason for sending  off a letter 
of authority to her former employer was to gather this information.  
Surely over the years  that Mrs H received the benefit statements from Andrew 
Bourne and the personal pension provider, she wouldve thought that she was not 
going to get as much as she would have  if she had remained in the scheme.
Whilst Mrs H was an active member of the OPS for over 10 years,  she wouldve 
received annual statements of benefits accrued  and also information on the funding  
position of the scheme. This was a legal requirement and Mrs Hs former employer  
a large employer in the area - were bound to have sent out benefit statements. So 
Mrs H must have  known what pension she was expecting to get from her employer. 
When someone leaves  a defined benefit  OPS, its a legislative  requirement  for to be 
sent a deferred benefit  statement.
Ref: DRN22745333This means theres  three  different ways  Mrs H must have  known what  pension she 
was giving up if she transferred the OPS. 
Taking all of these points into account, it is clear that Mrs H shouldve  known that she 
was unlikely to get the same pension shed given up at least from 2004. Its 
incredulous that for over 21 years  she didn't  at any point think when  she received her 
projected benefit statement that she would  likely  be worse  off, and that suddenly in 
2018 she became  aware of a possible loss for the first time.  Deciding that a claim is 
out of time is something that is supposed to be fair to all parties.
The adjudicator  has said that Mrs H has said that she was and is very cautious.  But a 
signed Financial  Planning Questionnaire for her in 1994, showed that she had a 5-6 
risk stance,  on a risk scale of 0 to 10, with 0 being cautious and 10 being  high risk. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that this is a 
complaint this service  can consider and Im upholding the complaint, for mostly the same 
reasons as the adjudicator. Ill explain why. 
Im required  by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and DISP to determine  
the complaint  by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint. When considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to take 
into account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
Firstly, I think its important to explain that, from as far back  as 1994, its been a requirement  
that records for pension  transfer advice are kept indefinitely. So, although the advice was 
provided in 1997,  Andrew  Bourne ought  to have taken the necessary steps to ensure it had 
retained its advice file for Mrs H. 
Jurisdiction 
Although I have a fair and reasonable remit when it comes to considering the merits of a 
complaint, in terms of our jurisdiction, I can only apply the rules as they exist  I have no 
discretion to change  or set them aside on a case by case basis.  When  considering our 
jurisdiction, I have  no power to decide  whats fair and reasonable  I only have that power  if 
a complaint is in our jurisdiction.
Ref: DRN22745334I appreciate that Andrew  Bourne & Co strongly  disagrees that this complaint falls within  the 
jurisdiction of this service. Most of the points its raised in support of this were considered 
when I issued my decision on jurisdiction, setting out why I was satisfied that the complaint 
had been referred  in time and so could be considered. My position  on this hasnt changed  
and I dont intend to repeat my previous decision in full here. Instead, Ive summarised my 
key findings.   
I think its likely Mrs H wouldve been  sent a statement of her deferred  pension 
entitlement in the year between leaving the scheme in 1996 and receiving advice in 
1997. But its not unreasonable to assume that any correspondence regarding her 
deferred benefits was no longer in her possession.  And I dont think its unreasonable  
that she may not recall what that entitlement was, some  years after receiving advice 
and transferring away from the scheme.
Im satisfied,  for the reasons explained  in my previous decision, that wasnt  until 
2018, after Mrs H contacted her former employer for information, that she received 
information regarding  her former entitlement under the OPS.  And without  having  any 
information regarding  her deferred  pension  entitlement in her possession at the time 
her personal pension statements were received, these statements alone,  werent  
sufficient to have  alerted  Mrs H to the cause for complaint.
Even if Mrs H was aware of her entitlement under her former OPS, either from a 
deferred benefits statement or information discussed during the sale, Im not satisfied 
the 2004 statement was sufficient to start the three  year referral period. This 
statement projected benefits on the basis of a retirement age of 55 for non-protected 
rights and age 60 for the protected rights element  of Mrs Hs personal  pension. The 
deferred benefit statement showed Mrs Hs entitlement at age 60. So even if Mrs H 
had reviewed these  documents side by side, she wouldnt have been comparing like 
for like.  So, in any event,  I think its unlikely that this statement wouldve alerted 
Mrs H to the cause for complaint.
Although most of the arguments set out in Andrew Bournes final submissions were 
addressed in my earlier decision, there  were  three  points that I hadnt previously considered. 
So Ive addressed these below. 
Andrew Bourne  says that its adviser wouldve told Mrs H her deferred  pension figure. 
However, without any paperwork from the time of the sale,  its not possible to say with any 
certainty what was discussed. And Mrs Hs actions  contacting her former  employer  to 
obtain information and complaining within two months of this information  being received  
suggests to me that she wasnt previously aware, or could no longer recall, what her 
previous entitlement was. 
Ive also thought about the fact that Mrs H signed  an application form confirming the transfer 
value, which  at the time of the sale was £7,379.  But as the transfer value on her statements 
had increased  significantly,  I dont think this wouldve bought her attention to the fact that 
she may have been given  unsuitable  advice. 
Ref: DRN22745335I acknowledge that Mrs Hs former employer may have been  required to issue regular benefit 
statements while Mrs H was a member of the scheme. But as Mrs H was still working at that 
time, I think its unlikely that these  statements  wouldve contained information regarding  her 
entitlement if she left the scheme at that point.  And in any event, for reasons Ive explained, 
Im satisfied that Mrs H no longer had anything relating to the scheme in her possession. 
And given  that shed  left the scheme and transferred her benefits  away, its not 
unreasonable that she hadnt retained any scheme  paperwork. 
I appreciate that the advice complained about was provided many  years ago. But its not 
unusual with long term investments, such  as pensions, that issues with advice dont  come  to 
light until many  years  after the advice was provided.  In this case, Im satisfied for the 
reasons explained, both above and in my previous decision, that Mrs H has complained 
within three years of when  she was first aware of the cause for complaint.  
Advice to transfer  the OPS
As Ive explained above, I agree with the conclusions our adjudicator  reached,  for mostly the 
same reasons. These  conclusions are set out earlier in my decision and Andrew Bourne  has 
provided very little to dispute these. So I see no benefit in repeating those conclusions in full 
here. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be keys reasons for upholding the 
complaint.  
Without much of the initial paperwork, its not possible to know  the full extent of Andrew 
Bournes investigations into the suitability  of the transfer. Andrew Bourne hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of a Transfer  Value  Analysis (TVAS) report, fact find document or reasons 
why letter.  Ive therefore reached my decision,  having consider the limited paperwork 
available and the recollections  of both parties. 
Often the key points  to take account of when considering whether the transfer  will be 
suitable is the consumers attitude to risk (including  capacity for loss), and the critical yield 
(thats the growth required for the personal pension arrangement to match  the benefits from 
OPS). Unfortunately,  while we know what pension Mrs H was entitled to from the OPS,  we 
dont know what the critical  yield was. Ive therefore concentrated on Mrs Hs attitude  to risk. 
And what I know of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs H has said that shed  always had a cautious  attitude to risk. And Im mindful that her 
pension was invested in a unitised with profits fund, which  wouldve been  considered  fairly  
low risk.  However, Andrew Bourne disputes this and its provided  a signed Financial 
Planning Questionnaire for Mrs H from 1994,  which shows  that she had agreed to a medium  
attitude to risk (5/6 on a scale  of 0 -10). While I accept that Mrs H may well have signed this 
document, I dont think its appropriate  to assess her attitude to risk based  solely  on the 
numbers she selected on this form; other factors  also needed to be taken into account  when 
assessing this, including  an analysis of Mrs Hs overall circumstances.
At the time of advice, Mrs H had left employment having recently had a child and she 
went on to work as a self-employed  child minder. So it seems that her prospects of 
accruing future pension  benefits within another OPS were  quite unlikely.  And aside from 
her OPS  and any state pension entitlement, Mrs H didnt have  any other pensions.  So, 
although I appreciate Mrs H may have signed  a form to say she was willing to accept a 
medium degree  of risk with her pension benefits, I think  Andrew Bourne shouldve noted  
that she didnt  have the capacity for loss that a medium risking rating brought  with it.
Ref: DRN22745336The deferred  benefit statement shows that Mrs H would be entitled  to a guaranteed  pension 
of £6,584 at the age of 65, with a 50% dependents pensions in the event of her death. I 
dont know what Mrs Hs objectives were  for her retirement but I think  its very likely that she 
was relying on this pension to provide at least some of the income should she would need in 
retirement. 
I therefore consider  it was unsuitable  to advise her to transfer her OPS  benefits to a plan 
which exposed her benefits to risk, particularly as this transfer represented her entire 
pension provision. 
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs H, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Andrew Bourne must therefore  undertake  a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in its Finalised  Guidance  17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Andrew  Bourne  
must therefore take into account any amendments to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 
17/9.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Hs acceptance of the decision.
If this is completed before  publication  of the FCAs intended amendments  to the guidance, 
Andrew Bourne  must  re-run the calculation within a month of the amended  guidance being 
published  ensuring that any shortfall  this shows in the original calculation  is promptly  made 
up to Mrs H. Andrew Bourne  need only re-run the calculation once, to take account of 
amendments currently planned  by the FCA. Andrew  Bourne does not subsequently need to 
recalculate following  any further amendments the regulator might later make.  
Alternatively, Andrew  Bourne may wait until publication of the FCAs amended Finalised 
Guidance (expected  in March 2021) before  calculating and paying the compensation due to 
Mrs H in this case.
Andrew Bourne  may wish to contact  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Hs 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN22745337If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mrs H within  90 days  of the date 
Andrew Bourne  receives notification  of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest 
must be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  from the date 
of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Andrew Bourne  to pay Mrs H.
If Andrew Bourne  chooses to wait until publication  of the FCAs amended  Finalised 
Guidance before calculating and paying the compensation, the 90 days will start from the 
date the FCA publishes this amended guidance.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Andrew  Bourne to pay Mrs H the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Andrew 
Bourne to pay Mrs H any interest on that amount  in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Andrew Bourne 
to pay Mrs H any interest as set out above  on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Andrew Bourne  pays Mrs H the balance. I additionally recommend any interest calculated as 
set out above  on this balance to be paid to Mrs H.
If Mrs H accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Andrew Bourne. My 
recommendation is not binding on Andrew Bourne. Further,  its unlikely that Mrs H can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs H may want  to consider 
getting independent legal  advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN22745338my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I direct Andrew Bourne & 
Company (Life & Pensions) to calculate  and pay compensation as set out above.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2274533