complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the standard of repairs to a property he rents  out. He says U K 
Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt repair the property satisfactorily after an escape  of water.
background
A leak from a bath caused damage to a bathroom,  kitchen/dining area and a wall. UKI 
arranged repairs through one of its agents,  which were  carried out. But there were some  
issues Mr R was unhappy with and he raised these  with UKI.
The investigator detailed  the issues in his opinion to both parties  and Mr R and UKI are 
aware of what was in dispute. But in summary  the surrounding issues  are:
it wasnt thought  that a steel joist was required to replace the original wooden joist to 
support the bath.
there was no loss from a window  being  open.
there was no evidence that a key was left on site for anything  other  than a very brief 
period.
there was no evidence that workmen had used and damaged  a back-access  point
a loose socket was settled by UKI.
the toilets werent used as the water had been  shut-off to the property.
The main  point in dispute now is that Mr R believes there is an ongoing damp problem that 
UKI is responsible for. UKIs agent advised  that the damp problem was a historical one and 
nothing to do with the claim or the repairs. And indeed, Mr R had provided a report that 
showed a damp-proof  course was installed in 2016.  The investigator was persuaded that the 
problem was a historical one rather than being linked to the claim itself.
Other issues  around the state the property was left in with broken down cardboard stacked, 
and other  debris  wasnt in keeping with how the property should have been  left. UKI had 
agreed to clean the rooms its contractors had accessed but general dirtiness of carpets and 
floors wasnt  UKIs concern as protective floor coverings were put in place.
To put things right the investigator  said UKI should pay £150  compensation for the debris  left 
at the property.
UKI agreed but Mr R did not  he said the way UKIs  contractors had plastered the walls was 
the cause of the damp coming through. He says hes had plastering firms  tell him that the 
work isnt satisfactory.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN2825598K820x#14my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main  issue in Mr Rs complaint is the damp  problem and its this that Ill go into more  
detail about later. I should say that having  considered all the other issues carefully, it does 
appear that there is acceptance of what the investigator has said.  For the avoidance of 
doubt though I agree with the investigators  conclusions on those issues  outlined in the
background. And other  than UKI needing to clean the rooms its contractors entered,  and to 
which it has already  agreed  to do, Im not persuaded by Mr Rs complaint that UKI should 
do anything else. And I think £150  compensation for leaving debris  in the property  after 
works finished is a fair award  for the distress  this caused Mr R.
I am satisfied by the information the parties  have  sent that the damp problem existed  before  
the claim and before  UKIs involvement. UKI and its contractors  have consistently  explained 
to Mr R, in person and in writing, that the rising  damp problem is a historical one. The 
contractors notes comment  on damp being an existing issue  from its initial  inspections  and 
indeed, Mr R has provided a letter from a damp-proof company for work carried out in 2016, 
almost two years before the bath leak. That work carried a guarantee and UKI informed Mr 
R that he may wish to go back  to the company that carried out that work. Having considered 
all the information  about the damp  issue carefully, Im not satisfied UKI is responsible and 
so it would not be fair to require  it to carry out further  work.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in so far as U K Insurance Ltd must pay Mr R £150 compensation 
(and clean  the rooms  its contractors used, except for floor/carpets as it has already 
agreed to).
UKI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr R accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must  also pay interest on the compensation 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825598