K822xcomplaint
Mr U says Ferratum  UK Ltd (Ferratum) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Ferratum provided with a payday loan in October  2016. The loan was for £100 and Mr U was 
due to repay it in 17 days. But Mr U didnt settle  the loan until February  2018.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Us complaint and thought that Ferratum shouldnt have 
provided this loan. In his view, Ferratum didnt carry out proportionate checks  and if it had 
carried out such checks it would more likely than not have seen that it shouldnt have lent to 
Mr U.
Ferratum accepted it shouldnt have lent to Mr U. And in order to put things right, it offered 
refund all the interest and charges Mr U paid. But it didnt  agree to remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Us credit file as a result of this loan. Mr U didnt accept  
Ferratums offer. He wants Ferratum  to remove the adverse information it recorded on his 
credit file.  
As the parties couldnt  agree on how Ferratum should put things right, the case  was referred 
to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Us complaint. 
Both Mr U and Ferratum agree that Mr U shouldnt have been  provided with his loan.  So all I 
need to decide in this case is decide  whether or not what Ferratum has offered to do to put 
things right is fair. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I think that Ferratum  needs to do a little 
more to put things  right for Mr U. Id like to explain why I think this.
At this point it might help for me to explain that where a business accepts (or we decide) it 
did something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they 
would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business  to put 
a consumer in the position  theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the loan they shouldnt  
have. But Mr U was given  the loans in question  and hes used the funds.
 
So its simply not possible to put Mr U in the position  he would be in if he hadnt been  given 
these loans in the first place. And we have to look at what  else we can do to put things right 
in a fair way. In reality its the interest  and charges on these loans, on the complaints that are 
upheld, thats  the main  consequence of the business giving a consumer a loan it shouldnt  
have. 
So where a lender provides a loan it shouldnt have, wed expect it to put the consumer  in 
the position theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid any interest and charges on that loan. This 
means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any loan 
Ref: DRN24883432that shouldnt  have been given  and also add 8% simple  interest  per year where the 
consumer paid those  interest and charges. The lender will normally also remove  adverse 
information recorded on the consumers  credit file as a result of the interest  and charges on 
those loans. 
As previously explained, Ferratum has agreed to refund  all the interest and charges Mr U 
paid on his loan.  But it doesnt think that it should remove the adverse information  from      
Mr Us credit file as it has a duty to report factual information.
Ive given a lot of thought to what Ferratum  has told us. But while I recognise the importance 
of preserving an accurate picture  of Mr Us credit history and creditworthiness so that a 
lender can make an informed decision on whether lend to him, I think that the adverse 
information is likely to unfairly adversely affecting Mr U going  forwards. And I think it would 
be unfair for Mr U to lose out in this way when  Ferratum shouldnt have provided  with him 
this loan in the first place.
As this is the case, I think that Ferratum should do the following to put things right for Mr U:
refund  all interest and charges Mr U paid on his loan;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about this loan from Mr Us credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Ferratum to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Us complaint.  Ferratum  UK Ltd should pay 
Mr U compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2488343