K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited  (Amtrust) have handled her legal expenses 
insurance claim unfairly.
Amtrust uses  intermediaries to administer  their legal expenses  insurance, so any reference 
to Amtrust within this decision should be taken  as including such  intermediaries.  
background
Mrs S holds a legal expenses insurance  policy with Amtrust. She was contacted  by her 
neighbours solicitors  in December 2018, as they were seeking  an injunction  to stop her from 
parking her car in a certain place, as they said it was blocking their driveway. Mrs S made a 
claim under her legal  expenses insurance, requesting Amtrusts assistance in defending the 
injunction.
Amtrust responded  saying that Mrs Ss claim was not covered under the policy  because, 
with regards to property disputes, it only covered the legal costs of pursuing an action rather  
than defending one. So they said the policy would only cover  such  a claim where  Ms S was 
counterclaiming or where she could have issued a claim for nuisance  or trespass against her 
neighbour first. 
Mrs S subsequently sought to pursue a claim for nuisance  in February 2019 as she said that 
work carried out by the neighbours on their parking space had caused  rain water to flow into 
her garage. She also said they were running a business from their property, which  was 
causing a nuisance due to the frequency of deliveries.
Amtrust asked Mrs S to contact her buildings and contents insurer to see if her claim would 
be covered under this policy (rather than pursuing the matter through  legal  action). They also 
asked for various  other pieces of information, such as any correspondence  with the 
opponent and any expert reports obtained,  as well as evidence  to show  that the claim was 
not accepted under  her buildings insurance.  However, they said that the additional 
information requested  was not provided. So based on the information  they had, they were 
unable to consider  the claim any further or confirm if cover  was available.  Unhappy  with this, 
Mrs S brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She agreed that the defence of the injunction 
was not covered under the policy. And in terms of the nuisance/trespass claim, the 
investigator thought  it was reasonable for Amtrust to refuse to consider the claim any further 
in the absence of the information theyd requested. Mrs S disagreed but did not give any 
reasons as to why. So the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Mrs Ss legal expenses  policy provides cover for property disputes (amongst other things) 
which states:
What is insured:
Ref: DRN22055052Costs to pursue  a legal  action:
a)For damages against a person or organisation that causes physical damage 
to your main home or your personal  effects.
b)For nuisance or trespass  against  the person or organisation  infringing your 
legal rights in relation  to your main  home.
So based  on this, Im satisfied that cover was not available for Mrs S to defend the legal 
action being brought against her by her neighbours, as the policy term is clear  that it will only 
cover the costs of pursuing legal action rather than defending it. And I dont consider that 
Amtrust were required to obtain a legal assessment from panel solicitors in order to reach 
this conclusion, as it is within  Amtrusts  remit to assess whether the basic requirements for 
cover have been met before  instructing  solicitors  to consider the merits of the claim.
However, the policy does  cover claims being  brought for nuisance or trespass,  which is what  
Mrs S subsequently sought to pursue against her neighbours. So Ive considered how 
Amtrust have handled this element  of Mrs Ss claim.
In February 2019,  Mrs S wrote to Amtrust to say that she wished to pursue a nuisance claim. 
She said that her neighbours  had work  undertaken on their parking space, which was 
causing rain water to flow into her garage. Mrs S also claimed that the business  they were  
running from their property was also causing  a nuisance, as well as the way they parked 
their vehicles. She enclosed photographs  and said that she needed a court order  to prevent 
their behaviour and bring about remedial  action.
Amtrust responded,  highlighting an exclusionary clause in the policy  which states:
2. There is no cover for:
a)Claims over loss or damage where that loss or damage is insured under any 
other insurance
As it appeared that any damage  caused to Mrs Ss garage may have been  covered under 
her buildings and contents insurance, Amtrust  suggested that she first make a claim under 
this policy. If the claim was subsequently declined, they said they Mrs S should  then provide  
evidence of why it was declined so they could consider the claim further.  I dont think this 
was an unreasonable position  for Amtrust to take  particularly given the presence of the 
above exclusion clause   as well as taking into account the objectives of the Civil Procedure 
Rules to use litigation as a last resort after all other  avenues have been exhausted. 
Amtrust also said that they would require further information from Mrs S to properly consider 
her nuisance claim. They said she would need  to provide:
1)All correspondence with her opponent;
2)A copy of any expert report obtained;
3)A chronology/diary of incidents and relevant dates;
4)Any other information relevant to the claim.
Several letters were  subsequently exchanged between  Mrs S and Amtrust. But she did not 
provide confirmation  that she had made a claim under her buildings  and contents  insurance, 
and neither did she provide the additional  information requested  by Amtrust. As a result  
Ref: DRN22055053and based on the limited  information that had been provided  they said they were  unable 
consider the matter any further. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
Conditions
d)You must supply  all of the information  which we reasonably require to decide 
whether a claim may be accepted
I can see that Amtrust did request the information  from Mrs S on several occasions, and I 
dont think what they have asked for is unreasonable in the circumstances. However, I 
cannot see that Mrs S has provided this information,  so I do not think they have  acted 
unreasonably by refusing to consider the matter  any further  until they receive  the necessary 
information to assess the claim.
Mrs S submits that Amtrust should  arrange  any expert evidence they require. However, it is 
for Mrs S to prove her claim, which includes any evidence that may be required  to 
substantiate her dispute against her neighbours. And I cannot see that Amtrust would be 
obliged under the policy to arrange  for any expert  reports in these circumstances.
So I do not consider Amtrust to have acted  unreasonably in the circumstances, and I will not 
be asking them to do anything further at this point. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2205505