K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Skipton Building  Society  mis-sold Mrs L payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage  in 
2003. The PPI was extended  to cover additional borrowing later in 2003, and in 2005.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mrs L has said the PPI was added without her knowledge. She says she didnt ask for it and 
nothing was explained. She was just asked to sign documents for a transfer of equity. 
First of all I am conscious that this did happen about 16 years ago, and I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail  everything  that happened  so long ago. But, more  importantly,  it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting  
evidence. Where someone has said another person or organisation has done something  
wrong, fairness requires  that the person making  the allegation should present evidence  that 
this probably did happen.  It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. I realise  this is now difficult  for 
Mrs L. 
Also I can see that, in the first mortgage application form in 2003,  there  are two boxes to 
accept or reject PPI; and I can see the one applying  for PPI has been ticked, and Mrs L has 
signed the form at the end. She has also signed a separate PPI application form, which  
includes her bank details  written in by hand,  for the payment  of the PPI premiums. There is 
also a reference  to the premium in the mortgage application summary and a separate  letter  
confirming the PPI has been set up. There is a signed application form for the second 
mortgage advance  of 2003.  In 2005, the part of the forming for choosing or rejecting PPI is 
not filled in, and instead is written  by hand all ready  got. 
I accept it is possible that Mrs L was just asked to sign quickly, and someone else filled in 
the ticks and handwritten  details (Mrs L told our adjudicator  it wasnt her handwriting).  But it 
would be impossible now to prove  thats  what happened.  And there is at least evidence that 
Skipton at least tried, in the documents, to be clear that Mrs L was applying  for PPI, and to 
tell her when it was set up. So, even though I cant be certain, I do think  its likely Mrs L was 
given the choice about taking PPI, even if she doesnt now remember it.  
Ref: DRN22702292Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Ls 
proper consent.
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply. These are my reasons.
I think Skipton recommended the PPI to Mrs L, and this means it had a higher standard  to 
reach during the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mrs Ls 
particular circumstances.  However, finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties.  And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ls situation at the time.  
Its likely  Mrs L was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mrs L received full employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And shes said she didnt have savings at the time. 
So the PPI could have put Mrs L in a more secure position, if shed eventually  lost 
income due to long term sickness or unemployment.  
Ive not been told anything to suggest she couldnt afford  the PPI when she took it 
out. 
There are some  things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs L would 
have been affected  by any of these
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Skipton  explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I dont  
anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about this would have affected whether 
Mrs L took the PPI. I say this because the potential benefits were  greater than Mrs Ls sick, 
and the cost wasnt significantly high.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270229