K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BOS) (trading as Halifax) are holding him liable 
for payments made from his current account, that he says he didnt make or otherwise 
authorise. Hes also unhappy with the service hes received.
background
Mr G held a current account  with BOS. He also had access to online banking. Both Mr G and 
BOS agree that Mr G attended a branch and changed his online banking  password  on 27 
April 2019.
Beyond this there is dispute as to what has happened. BOS say their systems have 
recorded the following:
1.On 29 April 2019 their online banking app was set up on a new device and linked to 
Mr Gs account.  In order for this to happen  an automated verification call was made 
to the number they had on file for Mr G.  
2.On 2 May 2019 someone logged in to Mr Gs account, using the app, on the same  
device. The phone  number  associated with Mr Gs account was then changed  within 
the app. 
3.A new payee was set up, again  with an automated verification call being  made  to the 
new number on file.
4.Six payments were then sent to the new payee, within the app. The values of these 
were £20, £47, £37, £49.99, £69 and £6.52.  These  all took place at around  12.30am 
on 2 May 2019. 
Later on 2 May 2019, Mr G contacted  BOS as he was having trouble logging  in to his online 
banking. During  this call he was made aware of the above six payments. Mr G said that he 
hadnt done this, so BOS took steps to secure his account and investigated.  
Mr G says he didnt take any of the actions listed at 1-4 above. He also says he never 
received any verification  calls and that no-one  else could have had access  to his phone. He 
was understandably upset  as the transactions had removed all the funds from his account, 
and he needed  the money to pay bills and to buy food. 
BOS investigated  but ultimately declined to refund the transactions.  They  felt the evidence  
didnt support that Mr G had been  a victim  of fraud. They initially thought  Mr G might have 
been the victim of a scam and had been tricked  into making the payments. So they asked 
him explicitly about this and he maintained he hadnt made the payments at all, and that he 
hadnt been scammed. So BOS concluded  that Mr G had made the payments himself  and 
held him liable for them. They offered him support if this meant he would be in financial 
difficulty. 
Being unhappy with this response, Mr G complained. He insists he didnt  make  these 
payments. He was also unhappy with the way he was spoken  to during the fraud 
investigation. He said BOS staff were  arrogant and treated him like a criminal. 
BOS responded  to the complaint, but maintained  their position. So, Mr G referred  the matter 
to our service. One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She 
didnt think the BOS decision was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN27166972Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. On 10 March  2020 I 
issued a provisional decision and invited both parties to respond  with their comments  before 
I finalised my decision. My provisional decision said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold it. I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, so let me explain why. 
Generally speaking BOS  can only hold Mr G liable for the payments he disputes, if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself. Im 
satisfied by the technical evidence provided by BOS  that the payments were  correctly 
authenticated. That is they were  processed  in line with the instructions provided  from within  
the online banking  app. But Ive also gone on to consider whether or not the evidence  
suggests that Mr G consented  to these payments.
I note that BOS initially thought Mr G might have been the victim of a scam  in which you pay 
an advance  before being provided with a loan. But Mr G has been insistent throughout 
(and with our service) that this wasnt the case.  So I cant  fairly say that BOS should  have 
pursued this further   they had to respond to the information that Mr G provided.
Ive also considered that the payments were in quick  succession  and withdrew almost all of 
Mr Gs credit balance.  But having looked  at Mr Gs statements,  I can see that he regularly 
made use of his overdraft.  So I dont think  the quick withdrawal of just over £200 ought to 
have given BOS  cause for concern.
Mr G hasnt provided any explanation for how a third party  could have known his security  
details to enable  them to log in to his online  banking.  He says hes never written them down  
or shared them with anyone. He also says that no-one else has access  to his phone  and no-
one could have  answered the verification call made on 29 April 2019 which set up the mobile 
banking app.
But BOS  systems record that the call was made  to the correct  number they had on file for 
him, and that this was answered and verified  correctly. It also records  that someone  logged 
in correctly on 2 May 2019 prior to making  the disputed payments.  
So overall, Im more persuaded by the technical evidence, than I am by Mr Gs testimony. 
Without a point of compromise for both his online banking security details including the 
password, and for a third party to have  access to his phone, its difficult  to understand how 
this would have  been possible.  
BOS also highlighted  that the IP address from which the payments were made, was the 
same as genuine use that Mr G doesnt  dispute. Ive not placed a great  deal of weight  on 
this, as it is possible to manipulate  an IP address through technical means. 
But overall, I dont  think that BOS  decision, based  on the evidence available, was unfair  or 
unreasonable. I agree that the evidence suggests  its more likely than not that Mr G made or 
authorised the payments himself.  They  also offered to put him through to a specialist team 
who could help him if he was in financial difficulty.  This is what  Id expect  in these 
circumstances. 
the service
Ref: DRN27166973Ive listened to the calls between Mr G and BOS  that involve the reporting of the fraud and 
the investigation of this and his complaint. There were times  when things  became  a little 
heated with both sides speaking over each other. But BOS  were delivering a message that 
was understandably disappointing for Mr G. And I dont  agree that the staff were  arrogant or 
treated him like a criminal. Their investigation meant  they needed  to ask probing questions  
and to challenge Mr Gs version of events. I also think the staff were trying their best to 
explain the reasons  for their decision to Mr G.
So whilst I can understand why Mr G perceived  it as accusatory, I dont think  there was any 
intent to upset  or frustrate him. And I dont think the service provided  was at a level where 
compensation needs to be paid.
BOS didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr G responded with some comments, which 
Ill address below. Now both parties  have had an opportunity to respond, I can go ahead  with 
my decision.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr G said in response to my provisional decision that it was all based  on the IP address and 
that hed never used  the IP address that BOS say the payments were  made from. As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I didnt place a great deal of weight on the IP address 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  So this wasnt a significant factor  in my decision. 
Mr G also re-iterated his position and expressed his dissatisfaction with our service,  but 
didnt raise any new points or provide further evidence  for my consideration. So in light of 
this, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome  in my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2716697