K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has registered a marker against  him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database, which is affecting  his ability  to open another  bank account.
background
Mr C reported his Barclays debit  card missing on 20 August  2017.  Barclays  wrote  to him on 
31 August 2017  to tell him his account  was going to be closed the next day. In July 2018    
Mr C contacted Barclays when his account  at another bank was closed and found out that 
this seemed to be because of the CIFAS marker Barclays had registered. He then disputed  
transactions on his account made  on 18 August 2017. There was a credit of £2,500  and then 
cash withdrawals and payments using  his card.
Barclays said that the money paid into the account  was obtained fraudulently.  All this money 
had been withdrawn including one cash withdrawal  of £2,000 which  would have needed not 
only Mr Cs card and PIN but also his date of birth. Mr C hadnt explained how his personal 
information had been obtained by a third party. It said it wouldnt remove  the marker.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Mr C had explained to him 
that he had been visiting family in North London  and had lost his card. He said he hadnt 
returned to his home in Kent until the day after the transactions.  He thinks  he lost his card in 
a shopping centre and said that his PIN was in his wallet and was the same  for both his 
Barclays card and that for the card with the other financial business.
Our investigator said that:
-Mr C had given inconsistent information about  what happened as the other financial 
business had shown that there had been  a cash withdrawal from his account with it 
at 13:48 on 18 August  2017 in Kent. The first disputed withdrawal was made in North  
London at 14:48  on that day.
-Neither Barclays nor the other bank had a record of Mr C changing  his PIN. 
-It was unlikely that only the Barclays  card had been lost from his wallet as he hadnt  
used this.
-Barclays had shown  that there had been access to Mr Cs account  using touch  ID 
on mobile banking  at that time. This meant  that Mr C would have seen the 
transactions on the account.
-He concluded  that Mr C had likely given his card and personal details to someone 
else and knew about and authorised the withdrawals.
-Barclays had satisfied  the criteria required to register a marker  at CIFAS.
Mr C didnt agree. He said that this was now over two years  ago and he couldnt remember 
exactly what happened. He thought he might have lost his card more  than a day before  the 
disputed transactions.  And he didnt realise  what had happened until after hed returned  to 
Kent. He didnt  understand the relevance of withdrawals being  made  in both Kent with his 
other bank  card and North  London with his Barclays debit card on the same day. He didnt 
think that Barclays systems were secure if money  could  be withdrawn with so little personal 
information. And he hadnt  been prosecuted for fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24405052I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2009 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if the payments werent 
authorised Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
I also need to consider  whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays  
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show  it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud  or financial crime had been committed  or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported  to the authorities. 
were the transactions authorised?
Barclays has provided evidence to show that the credit of £2,500  was reported as fraudulent 
by the senders bank. A total amount equivalent to this credit was withdrawn in cash  from   
Mr Cs account that day. An amount of £2,000 was taken from an ASD machine which 
would have required the genuine  card, PIN and Mr Cs date of birth.  The other withdrawals 
were made from cash machines which would have needed the card and PIN. Im satisfied 
that these payments were authenticated. His card was further used for purchases including  
for petrol paid for at pump and again Im satisfied that these payments  were authenticated.
The question I need to consider is whether Mr C consented to these payments. I appreciate 
that his recall now of what happened at that time may not be complete. But any 
inconsistencies in what hes said during  the course  of his complaint are relevant in thinking 
about his credibility  and deciding what is most  likely.
What I think is important  and hasnt been disputed  by him is that there was access  to his 
account through mobile banking during this period using the phone number hed registered. 
And some of the log-ons  were made  using touch finger print identification. If Mr C had lost 
his card as he says that I think that it would be a natural reaction for him to find out whether 
any payments had been made from his account. Ive seen clear  evidence his account  was 
accessed in this way on 18, 19 and 21 August 2017 and also on subsequent dates. Im 
afraid I cant accept that Mr C wouldnt have then looked  for and seen  what  he says were 
disputed entries to his account. Theres no good  explanation why he wouldnt  have and 
didnt report them at that time.
There are some inconsistencies in what hes said. Barclays noted  that he told it he didnt 
think he had kept his PIN with his card. Hes told our investigator  that he did. Mr C said the 
PINs on both cards  were  the same. Neither Barclays  nor the other bank  has a record of him 
changing his PIN  although Barclays cannot  be clear that its records go back  as far as 
when his account was opened  in 2011.  He told our investigator during a telephone call on 20 
June 2019 that he didnt  return to Kent until the day after the disputed transactions.  He now 
seems to be saying that he was in Kent on that day.
Our investigator has already pointed out that there was a withdrawal at 13:48 on 18 August 
2017 from a cash  point in Kent and I note this was for £10. The credit  of £2,500 was made to 
his Barclays account  at 14:35 by faster payment.  And the withdrawal from the ASD was 
made at 14:48.  The distance between those locations for the withdrawals  as far as I can 
determine is well over 80 miles. There was clearly  no way in which  Mr C could have made 
both of those withdrawals himself. And I cant say with certainty whether he made  either of 
these personally. 
Ref: DRN24405053I agree  with our investigator that his explanation  that only his Barclays card was somehow 
taken from his wallet together with the PIN without him realising  to be unlikely. And that 
Barclays card had been last used before then on 1 August 2017 so there  was no way 
someone could  have seen his PIN being  entered. And if the card had got into the hands of 
an unknown third party then I dont see how Mr Cs date of birth would have been 
discovered. It also seems unlikely to me that someone in possession of a card and PIN 
wouldnt have checked for any balance on the account before then deciding to use the 
account for fraud.  And theres no indication anyone close  to him could have carried all this 
out and Mr C doesnt say that this could have happened.
Having balanced  all the evidence I find it most likely  that the withdrawals from the Barclays 
account were either made by Mr C or someone  acting with his authority having been  given 
his card and security information. So I find the withdrawals to be authorised.
the CIFAS marker
Barclays says that it applied the CIFAS marker because  Mr C received fraudulent funds into 
his account. So Ive looked at whether  Barclays was fair to apply the marker,  based on the 
evidence it had, and the investigation  it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must 
have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard  of proof  set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Barclays needs  to have enough information  to make a formal report 
to the police. And that any filing should  be for cases where there  are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed,  rather than mere suspicion.  
Having reviewed Mr Cs account  of events and the evidence Barclays has provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be recorded.  In 
coming to this view,  Ive taken into account the following reasons:
-Mr C received fraudulent funds  into his account  and didnt report this to Barclays  at 
the time.
-He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control  of who had the 
benefit of this money.
-Barclays had grounds to believe that Mr C had used fraudulently obtained funds  
based on the evidence it had.
Its a matter for the relevant authorities to decide  whether to make a criminal prosecution.  Im 
only looking  here at what Barclays  did and Im afraid I dont  have a basis to require it to 
remove the CIFAS marker.  I understand the difficulties this will likely  continue to cause Mr C 
when he tries to open an account elsewhere.
Ref: DRN24405054my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440505