K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr B had five loans from Uncle Buck between December 2015  and October 2016 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment Repaid Status
1 21 Dec 2015 £300 3m 15 Mar 2016 £146.86 29 Jan 2016 Early
2 3 Mar 2016 £300 3m 13 May 2016 £133.90 13 May 2016 On time
3 17 May 2016 £300 3m 15 Aug 2016 £150.73 25 May 2016 Withdrew
4 21 Jul 2016 £500 3m 14 Oct 2016 £244.72 14 Oct 2016 On time
5 14 Oct 2016 £500 3m 13 Jan 2017 £255.18 15 May 2017 Settlement
Mr B says Uncle Buck didnt perform relevant checks before it approved several  loans that 
were unaffordable to him. He says he was using one short-term loan to repay another  for 
several years and this caused him to have significant financial difficulties and adverse 
information on his credit file.
Uncle Buck  says it checked  Mr Bs credit file and asked him for information  about his income 
and expenditure  before  it approved the loans.  It said the information  it received indicated the 
loans were affordable  and Mr B was not in financial difficulty. It acknowledges that Mr B said 
he was in financial difficulty in December 2016,  but that that was caused by a change in 
circumstances, rather than the repayments  being  unaffordable. It says it put Mr Bs account 
on hold and subsequently agreed  a repayment  arrangement which  resulted  in him settling 
with a 50% reduction in the balance.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. Although he was 
satisfied Uncle Buck did enough  checks before approving  the first two loans, he considered  
its checks werent proportionate for the remaining loans. He said that, by loan 3, Uncle Buck 
had information  that showed Mr B might be having financial problems so it was likely hed 
have problems repaying future loans in a sustainable way. He recommended Uncle Buck 
should refund interest and charges on loans 3 to 5 (plus 8% statutory interest)  and remove 
negative information  about those loans  from Mr Bs credit file.
Uncle Buck  did not respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN26985542But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr B could 
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook defines  sustainable as without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other commitments, as well as without borrowing to do so. It means a lender should  realise,  
or ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make  repayments 
sustainably if theyre  unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
When Mr B applied  for these loans  he told Uncle Buck his income was £3,000, with £2,550 
of expenditure.  Although Mr Bs credit file showed  a number of previous short-term  loans, 
there appeared to be no active ones. I dont consider  there was anything  that shouldve led 
Uncle Buck  to query the information Mr B had provided. I say that because  it was early in the 
lending relationship and the instalments  were quite low relative to Mr Bs declared income.
Loan 3
As our adjudicator explained, Uncle Bucks credit  check  for loan 3 showed three new short-
term loan accounts,  of which £800  was active at the time.  Mr B had declared his disposable 
income to be £350, so this didnt leave him much money each  month after the £150  loan 
repayments. So I think a proportionate check for loan 3 should have included asking specific 
questions about  other  short-term loans and this would most likely have shown that Mr B:
Had been using  multiple short-term loans  for some time and had developed a 
reliance on them;
Had at least two other active short-term loans  that he needed to repay;
Didnt have enough disposable income  to meet his credit commitments  without 
borrowing again.
So, I dont think Uncle Buck should  have  approved  loan 3.
Ref: DRN26985543Loans 4 and 5
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
From  loan 4 onwards  Mr B was provided  with a new loan within  weeks  of settling a 
previous one. This was despite Mr B having told Uncle Buck  hed taken out a 
consolidation loan when  he repaid  loan 3 early. So Uncle Buck ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably;
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck. Loan 5 was 
taken out almost ten months after Mr Bs first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr B 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck  over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Bs ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  Mr Bs complaint about loans 4 and 5.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr B paid on loans 3 to 5;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Remove any negative  information about loans 3 to 5 from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2698554