K821x#15complaint
Mr H complained about a number  of loans he took out through  a company called Elevate 
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr H says he was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We know that Mr H took out 9 loans from Sunny between March 2018  and August 2018. 
Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Hs borrowing with Sunny, based on the information  it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in March  2020, comprehensively setting 
out why I thought the complaint should be partly  upheld from the point of loan number 4, 
rather than loan 3 as our adjudicator had recommended.  I asked both parties to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Sunny replied to my provisional  decision broadly by saying two things. Both relate  to the 
financial checks Sunny  says it carried out before lending to Mr H, which  it says didnt seem 
to suggest he was in financial trouble  and after all, it says,  he was paying  the loans back. 
To me, this only re-iterates the lack of any real depth in the types  of checks  Sunny normally 
carried out before lending  to Mr H. Up to a point  - in the early stages of a lending relationship 
- there is some justification for this. But as the lending continued,  clearly  the whole  point of 
carrying out checks about consumers finances is that they can potentially  expose areas of 
vulnerability and risk which the consumer themselves may either not fully understand or may 
wish to remain subdued because they need the money.  We know many consumers who 
are in financial trouble,  for example, do often borrow from one short-term lender to pay off 
another. In my provisional decision I explain how this affected Mr H.
It is also somewhat out of context, in my view, for Sunny  to just say Mr H was paying  his 
loans back thus suggesting there wasnt a problem. I recommended  we should  uphold this 
complaint from the point  of loan 4 onwards. By that point Mr H hadnt yet finished  paying for 
any of the first 3 loans  and I think any reasonable assessment would point  to this being a 
risk. More comprehensive checks were therefore called for which would have  then showed  
he was otherwise indebted too, as I previously  explained.
Sunny also said it was only ever required to consider Mr H's ability  to meet  repayments 
during the term of each individual loan and it was therefore entitled to restrict the scope of 
each individual  creditworthiness assessment to each loan. It said it was not required to 
undertake any assessment of the overall sustainability of Mr H's borrowing in general. 
Again, I simply dont agree, and I would invite Sunny to thoroughly  reconsider its approach. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. The 
approach it suggests  above only serves to ignore the obvious and wider  picture  of Mr Hs 
financial situation, for the apparent sake of advancing him short-term loans. Sunny had a 
duty to ensure its lending was sustainable and from loan 4 onwards I dont think it was.
Ref: DRN20398622Theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set out in my provisional decision. I uphold 
this complaint in respect of loans 4 -9, fully in line with my provisional decision.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr H, Sunny should:
A.refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans 4 - 9;
B.pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
C.pay Mr H the total of A plus B;
D.remove any adverse information  Sunny has recorded on Mr Hs credit  file in relation  
to loans 4 and 5;
E.the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6, 7, 8 and 9 should be completely 
removed from Mr Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partly uphold this complaint  and I direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr H the above compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20398623summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr H complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Elevate Credit 
International Limited, trading  at the time as Sunny. Mr H says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial  problems.
To keep things simple  Ill refer mainly  to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know  that Mr H took out 9 loans from Sunny between  March 2018 and August 2018.  Ive 
enclosed a summary  of his borrowing with Sunny,  based  on the information  it provided  to us. It can be 
found in the appendix  at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said they thought it should  be upheld from the 
point of loan number 3 onwards. Sunny  didnt agree with the adjudicators view although  it did make 
an alternative offer, which  wasnt  accepted by Mr H. Its therefore come to me for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  Ive 
followed this approach when  thinking about Mr Hs complaint.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr H could repay  the 
loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to have  taken into account  a range  
of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total repayment amount and the consumers 
income and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. However,  certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should have 
fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which 
a customer has been given  loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that 
the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.  So Sunny was required  to establish whether Mr H 
could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the re-payments  being affordable on this basis  might be an indication  that Mr H could 
sustainably make  them.  But it doesnt automatically follow  that this is the case. This is because the 
relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the 
Ref: DRN20398624customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments 
as well as without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. So, it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought to have fairly and reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if they are unlikely  to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Our adjudicator said they thought  the complaint  about loan numbers 1 and 2 ought  not to be upheld.  
But they said that by loan number 3, more proportionate financial and background  checks would most  
likely have shown Mr H was having problems managing money.  
I can understand why our adjudicator may have thought this. At that stage  I think there was indeed 
evidence that Mr H had several  outstanding  short-term loans with other providers. However,  bearing 
in mind what Ive said above about the length of the lending relationship, I think the checks  which 
Sunny most  likely carried out at this point  would  have been  quite basic ones and they wouldnt have  
shown the extent to which Mr H had other loans or wider financial problems. In short,  where I 
disagree with our adjudicator  is that I think checks for loans 1, 2, and 3 do appear to have been 
proportionate. And I think these levels  of checks, together with the income and expenditure details 
provided by Mr H, would have made these particular 3 loans appear affordable. Although by that point 
Mr H had 3 loans simultaneously outstanding together, I take account of the relatively manageable 
overall payment, his apparently stable income and his apparent ability to pay the money  back. 
Therefore for loans 1, 2 and 3, Im not intending to uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 4 onwards,  the situation  was different. By this time he had 
been taking out these types of short-term  loans  more or less continuously for a while without paying  
the previous ones off. So Mr H had 4 Sunny loans  outstanding together and this pushed up his overall 
monthly repayments. 
I think  any reasonable assessment of Mr Hs situation would have highlighted that he was repeatedly 
asking to borrow more,  so by this point Sunny ought to have carried  out more  comprehensive checks, 
proportionate to Mr Hs financial situation. This could  have included looking in more detail at his credit 
history and also verifying his disclosed income and expenditure. Better checks, however, would have 
shown he was regularly using  similar  lenders to get loans  and was clearly having  difficulty managing  
his money more generally.  
Against this backdrop, I dont think it was responsible  for Sunny to lend him more  money. Im 
therefore intending to uphold loan number 4 on this basis. Loan  5 did reduce in value and he did pay 
off much of his Sunny borrowing by then. But the proportionate and more thorough checks  Ive 
referred to above would  have already exposed Mr Hs other borrowing  and wider difficulties. I 
therefore intend to uphold his complaint about loans  4 and 5.
In addition to all this, I think an emerging pattern of repeated lending from the point of loan 6 onwards 
was also becoming very clear. By then, hed been borrowing repeatedly and regularly with Sunny for 
4 months and this pattern should have caused Sunny to see that Mr H wasnt merely  borrowing  to 
deal with short-term cash-flow problems; he was borrowing regularly,  to address shortfalls  in his 
income and to meet  an ongoing need. Mr H was having to consistently take out high interest,  short-
term lending over a sustained period  and the indebtedness caused by this type of borrowing was 
harmful, in my view. Sunny should have seen this and ought to have realised Mr H was at risk of not 
managing to repay the loans sustainably  and was in financial  difficulties. 
So Im also upholding this complaint in respect of loans 6, 7, 8 and 9 too. For these loans Sunny  
repeatedly lent to Mr H in an unsustainable manner because:
 
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use, over an extended time period; and
the length  of time over which Mr H borrowed was likely to have had negative  implications on 
his ability to access  mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these  high-cost loans
Ref: DRN20398625Im therefore  intending to partially  uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
my provisional  decision
I am intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Elevate Credit  International Limited,  to put things 
right for Mr H as set out above. 
I will consider any further information from either party, providing I get it by 6 April 2020.  After that Ill 
issue a final decision
Appendix
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Scheduled Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount Highest  Monthly  
Repayment*
1 21/03/2018 10/07/2018 6 £100.00 £29
2 15/05/2018 10/07/2018 6 £200.00 £89
3 04/06/2018 10/07/2018 6 £250.00 £167
4 10/06/2018 10/07/2018 6 £100.00 £198
5 19/07/2018 27/07/2018 6 £50.00 £14
6 29/07/2018 11/01/2019 6 £100.00 £31
7 06/08/2018 11/01/2019 6 £200.00 £91
8 16/08/2018 11/01/2019 6 £50.00 £105
9 24/08/2018 08/02/2019 6 £200.00 £169
Ref: DRN2039862