K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about the short term loans  she took out with CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
trading as Pounds to Pocket. Miss W says that Pounds to Pocket  lent to her irresponsibly. 
background
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. Pounds to Pocket 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The complaint  was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint  and my provisional findings, are attached and form 
part of this final decision. 
Pounds to Pocket,  and Miss W, confirmed that they had received my provisional decision.  
Pounds to Pocket,  didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that:
I hadnt demonstrated that the loan repayments  were unsustainable; the repayments 
werent automatically unsustainable  because  it was a longer term loan
the repayments werent  high when compared to Miss Ws reported income, and the 
credit reference agency information it had didnt show any problems. So it didnt need  
to perform additional checks 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my earlier  decision Pounds to Pocket made its initial  lending  decisions (up to 
loan 1c) based  on what  it recorded as Miss Ws net monthly income of over £13,500. It didnt 
record any expenditure information  or seemingly check if this was correct. Its difficult  to now 
put much  weight on the checks  Pounds to Pocket says it did. This is because  it was highly 
unlikely, given the job description  that Pounds to Pocket had recorded,  that this was correct.  
And its disappointing that Pounds to Pocket hasnt recognised this.
And because of this, and the fact that Miss W was committing to a significant proportion of 
her income in repayments over a longer period of time, I think  Pounds  to Pocket shouldve  
done more to have found out if Miss W could  afford  the loan repayments. Ive looked into her 
actual income and expenditure it was clear  that she couldnt. And this was borne out by the 
fact she needed  to refinance the loan three times  and she eventually  struggled to repay it. 
So, overall, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for the same reasons.
what Pounds to Pocket should do to put things right
To put things right for Miss W, Pounds to Pocket should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of the loan it approved and all of 
the refinances to it; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement; and
Ref: DRN20650712remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ws credit file about this loan
HM Revenue & Customs requires Pounds to Pocket to take off tax from this interest. 
Pounds to Pocket must give Miss W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ws complaint.
CashEuroNet UK LLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20650713extract from my provisional  decision
Miss W says that she took out several  loans  with Pounds to Pocket.  She says that if it had made  
better checks, or looked at her credit file, it wouldve seen  that she was in financial difficulty and not 
lent to her. 
Miss W took out one loan in October 2012. This loan was refinanced  three times between  June 2013 
and October  2013. The amount borrowed, and the term, were changed each time this was done. 
Some of the information Pounds to Pocket has given us is shown in the table below: 
loan 
numberdate startedamount 
borrowedterm (days) repayments
1 08/10/2012 £1,150 354 13 of £160
1a 24/06/3013 £610 347 13 of £160
1b 12/08/2013 £115 354 13 of £160
1c 02/10/2013 £100 359 13 of £170
Pounds to Pocket  has looked at Miss Ws initial complaint and said that it shouldnt  be upheld. It said 
that it did appropriate checks before lending.  And these checks showed that the loans were  
affordable. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Miss W and Pounds to Pocket  said.  He thought  Miss Ws 
complaint shouldnt  be upheld. He didnt think that Pounds to Pocket had made  proportionate checks 
before lending.  But he thought if it had then it still wouldve agreed to lend to Miss W. This is because 
he thought Miss W could  afford the repayments. And Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen  this had it 
completed better checks. So he thought that Pounds to Pockets  decisions to lend were  reasonable. 
Miss W didnt  agree with our adjudicator.  She said that: 
Pounds to Pocket  held incorrect information about her, so it shouldve made further checks to 
correct this; and
if it had made these  checks then it wouldve seen that she was in financial  difficulty  and not 
lent to her; and 
it should  have looked at how close together the loan increases were  
So as no agreements been reached the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered. Having done so, Ive provisionally decided 
to uphold Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable  manner. A lender  should 
gather enough information  for it to be able to make  an informed decision on the lending. The lending 
shouldnt adversely  impact a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules  themselves didnt set out compulsory checks. But they are clear  that any 
checks needed  to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different things. This 
could include how much  was being lent, the size of the repayments and what the lender found  out 
about the consumer. 
So Ive firstly looked at whether Pounds to Pocket performed proportionate checks. If I think  that the 
checks were proportionate then it usually wouldve been reasonable for it to lend. But if 
Ref: DRN20650714Pounds to Pocket  didnt do proportionate checks Ive looked at whether it wouldve been apparent to it 
that the loan repayments were affordable had it done better checks. Pounds to Pocket  should  put 
things right if its likely to have found that the loan repayments were  unaffordable.  
Pounds to Pocket  says it looked at: 
Miss Ws income before lending  and at each refinance; and 
it did credit  checks  and to see if Miss W could  afford the repayments 
Pounds to Pocket  said these  checks didnt reveal  any signs of financial difficulty. So based on what it 
saw from this it thought it was reasonable to lend.
why I dont think Pounds to Pockets  checks were proportionate 
Ive carefully thought about  what  Pounds to Pocket and Miss W have provided and what both sides 
have said. 
At the start of this loan Miss W needed to repay around £160 a month over the coming year. I think 
its reasonable  to say that this was a significant  commitment,  each month, over a long period  of time.  
So given the size of the repayments, and long repayment period, I think that it wouldve been 
proportionate to find out about Miss Ws income  and her normal monthly living costs and financial 
commitments including  any other short term lending she mayve had with other providers before 
approving this loan.   
And Miss W refinanced the loan three times over a relatively short period in 2013. At each  time she 
extended the term of the loan to run for another year. So by the last refinance she was scheduled to 
make repayments to Pounds to Pocked for over 2 years without a break. 
So when the loan was refinanced point  Pounds to Pocket couldve realised that Miss W may have 
some financial problems and she wasnt just using the loan to help with a temporary  cash flow 
problem. Pounds to Pocket shouldve  also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Miss Ws true financial situation. So I think that when Miss W refinanced  the loan Pounds to Pocket  
needed to verify the information it had to get an accurate picture  of Miss Ws finances.  This was to 
make sure Miss W was in position  to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Pounds to Pocket  did this here. Pounds to Pocket only recorded  Miss Ws income,  and 
looked at her credit  file, before approving  the lending.  As far as I can see it didnt  find out about  any 
other short  term loans Miss W mayve had and I dont think  it fully reviewed her finances at any time.  
So I need to think about what Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks.
what I think proportionate checks would most likely  have  shown
Miss W has provided some information about her financial circumstances. This isnt complete and I 
dont have bank statements for some of the refinances. But I think I have enough  to be able to make a 
decision about the lending. 
And I accept that this isnt exactly  what Pounds to Pocket wouldve seen at the time.  But I think it 
wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to 
rely on it. 
Pounds to Pocket  recorded Miss Ws monthly income  as being over £13,000 which I think  is clearly 
incorrect. Pounds to Pocket shouldve  corrected this before lending. Miss Ws actual monthly  income 
was around £1,300 and Ive used this amount. 
Ref: DRN20650715Before the loan Miss Ws bank statements show that her regular expenditure on things like food and 
rent and other household bills was just under £1,000 a month. Her regular financial commitments 
were around £200 a month. And I can see that Miss W was repaying another  instalment loan provider 
between £80 and £100 a month.  So I think its reasonable  to say that Miss Ws expenditure was either 
greater than,  or very close to, her income  before Pounds to Pocket approved this loan. So I dont think 
she could afford the repayments to it. 
I dont have full information about Miss Ws circumstances  in 2013. But Ive seen some of her bank 
statements from around this time. Having  looked at these  I dont think  her situation had improved. Her 
income could vary as I understand  she did some overtime.  But she had also taken on other longer 
term loans and she was using other payday lenders now as well. She was overdrawn at times and I 
can see she made a regular payment to a debt collection agency. So her expenditure  still seems to 
have been above her income,  when  all things are considered.   
I think  that Pounds to Pocket wouldve found out this information if it had made  proportionate checks. 
And I think Pounds to Pocket wouldve  seen Miss W wouldnt have been able repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Pounds to Pocket shouldnt have approved this loan, or the refinances 
to it, to Miss W and I think shes lost out as a result of this.
Ref: DRN2065071