K821x#15Complaint
Mr S has complained about the loans he took out through MYJAR Limited trading as MYJAR 
(MYJAR). He says the loans were not affordable. 
Background
Mr S took two loans  from MYJAR; one in November 2015 and one in July 2016. A summary  
of Mr Ss borrowing is shown below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 29/11/2015 15/02/2016 3 £350.00 £189.29
2 20/07/2016 outstanding 6 £650.00 £191.47
The adjudicator concluded that proportionate checks for loan 2 would have most likely 
shown MYJAR that Mr S was having  problems  managing his money; as Mr S had four 
outstanding short terms loans with other lenders  at the time.
MYJAR didnt agree.  It said the adjudicator did not recognise their checks. It explained  that 
Mr S was declined for a number of applications between  loan 1 and 2 because  he did not 
meet MYJARs policy criteria. By the time Mr S applied for loan 2, his circumstances had 
obviously changed. The customers income  was not low, the amount lent was not high and 
the lending relationship was short.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 August 2019  explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching the same conclusion as the adjudicator and upholding Mr Ss complaint in relation 
to loan 2.
MYJAR accepted my provisional decision and agreed to offer redress for loan 2. Mr S 
responded to my provisional decision.  He said that although he had hoped  loan 1 would 
have been considered due the other outstanding loans and money issues  he had at the 
time, he does agree  with his complaint about the second loan being upheld.
My findings
Ive considered Mr Ss response to my provisional  decision, along with all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the same.  For completeness, I have set my 
provisional decision out below - and explained  further why I am not upholding loan 1 within  it 
- to form my final decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  MYJAR  lent to Mr S. The 
FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-related 
regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, 
such as MYJAR. 
Ref: DRN20199572I am not quoting all the specific  regulations  here, because I would expect MYJAR to be 
familiar with these through previous ombudsman decisions, particularly recent  decisions,  
which set these rules out in more detail.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the consumer  directly  relates  to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. 
Certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but are not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
MYJAR told us that, when  the first loan was taken, it asked Mr S for his income  and 
expenses as well as making adjustments to those  figures using its own internal affordability 
calculations. It also carried out a number of credit  searches. 
I think the checks MYJAR did were proportionate for the first loan and the information Mr S 
provided indicated  that the loan was affordable. I appreciate this might not have been 
reflective of Mr Ss actual  financial position at the time. But this was Mr Ss first loan with 
MYJAR so I think it was entitled  to rely on the information Mr S provided about his income 
and expenses. At this stage I dont think MYJAR  needed to specifically ask about other 
outstanding short term loans Mr S may have had or verify the information  Mr S provided. 
Ref: DRN20199573In between applying  for loans  1 and 2, Mr S made  a number of applications to MYJAR, 
which were declined. Some of the information collected through the credit searches on the 
declined applications  indicated that Mr S was having problems managing  his money  at the 
time. For example; from what I can see Mr S had been opening a number of new accounts in 
the preceding  months to each credit  search  and the balances on his accounts  had been  
increasing. He was also over his credit card limits  and had several thousand pounds of 
unsecured debt.
So whilst loan 2 was early  on in the lending  relationship and the repayments may have been  
relatively small in relation  to the consumers declared income (although they did need to be 
sustained over a longer  period due to the term of the loan), I think  MYJAR needed to do 
more in light of what it knew  about Mr Ss recent  circumstances.
Taking everything into account,  including what MYJAR knew  about  Mr S from previous 
applications (including those that were declined) I think  it was reasonable for MYJAR to have 
asked Mr S specifically about any other short term lending he may have had outstanding.
If MYJAR  had carried out what I consider to have  been proportionate  checks,  it would have 
discovered Mr S had four outstanding short term loans with three other lenders totalling 
around £1,500.  As a responsible lender, MYJAR  would have realised Mr S was still having 
problems managing his money  and I dont think MYJAR would have agreed to lend Mr S 
loan 2. 
Putting things right
I understand there is an outstanding balance  on loan 2, if this is the case,  redress should be 
along the following lines: 
A.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the outstanding balance  on loan 2, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on loan 2. 
B.If this results in Mr S having made  overpayments  then MYJAR should  refund these 
overpayments to Mr S with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
C.However if there is still an outstanding balance then MYJAR  should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr S.
D.MYJAR should remove any adverse information it has recorded  on Mr Ss credit file 
in relation to loan 2. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to deduct tax from this interest. MYJAR should  
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax MYJAR has deducted, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN20199574My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct  MYJAR Limited  trading  as 
MYJAR to refund him as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2019957