K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Allianz Insurance Pic declined her pet insurance claim.  My references  
to Allianz include  its agents.
background
Mrs S has had pet insurance for her dog for several  years which  shes  renewed each year. 
The policy is branded  by a well known pet supplier and there have been several insurers  of 
the policy over the years.  The relevant insurer for the claim and complaint is Allianz. The 
policy gives 12 months cover for a medical condition or to a policy limit per condition, 
whichever happens  first.
Mrs S says her vet told her that her dog has a condition affecting his knees  and hips which  
could be treated but they first needed  to take x-rays. She complains that when she phoned 
Allianz in 2018  to check cover it told her the x-rays would be covered but when she claimed  
Allianz declined  to pay.
Allianz said it declined  the claim as the policy covers the cost of treatment of an illness  for 
12 months from the date the first clinical signs were noted. Mrs S dogs vet notes showed 
that lameness  was first noted  in 2014 so Allianz thought the claim was after the 12 months 
cover period.  Allianz also said that although  it could have been  clearer in the call with Mrs S 
it didnt guarantee  to pay the claim and the policy document was clear  about cover. It offered 
Mrs S £30 compensation for her inconvenience  which she rejected.
Mrs S complained to us saying £30 isnt enough for the costs she incurred (about £360). She 
wants Allianz to pay the claim. She says she wouldnt have had the treatment done if Allianz 
had told her she wouldnt be covered when she phoned. Also shed requested the call 
transcripts from Allianz four times which it hadnt sent.
Our investigator thought Allianz had fairly  declined the claim and made a reasonable offer of 
compensation.
Mrs S disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said Allianz misled her about  
cover in the phone  call. She offered to settle by Allianz paying half of the claim, which Allianz  
didnt accept.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold the complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Allianz  fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont think it 
did. Ill explain why.
The policy covers a medical condition for 12 months  from the date the clinical signs of the 
illness were first noticed. Clinical signs are defined  by the policy  as a change  in your pets 
health state, its bodily functions or behaviour'.
Ive listened to the call Mrs S made  to Allianz  to check whether her dog was covered for his 
knee condition. She gave Allianzs  call handler her policy number. Allianz  told her that under 
her Classic policy she had cover up to £2,700  per condition, detailed the excesses payable 
Ref: DRN26327012and told Mrs S about the claim process. Allianz  made no mention of the policy only covering 
a condition for 12 months from the clinical signs of the illness being first noticed.
I accept that Allianzs  call handler  told Mrs S that she couldnt  guarantee cover  as she wasnt  
a claims assessor. But Allianz  was the expert in that call and Mrs S had called to ask it about 
her cover. I think it would have been  reasonable for Allianz to have told Mrs S in the call 
about the 12 months limit on cover.
Even though  Allianz had previously sent Mrs S a policy document  which  detailed  the 
12 months cover it should have  still given her that fundamental  information about her policy 
when she specifically called to ask it about her cover.
Ive also listened  to the call between another Allianz call handler and Mrs S about her 
complaint where  Allianz accepted it should  have told her about the 12 months  timeframe.
I think Allianzs failure to tell Mrs S about  the 12 months limit disadvantaged her. Mrs S has 
told us that if shed known about  the time limit she wouldnt have gone ahead  with the x-rays 
and treatment as she couldnt afford the costs.  Thats supported by the vet notes being clear  
that Mrs S told the vet she wanted to check her insurance cover  before going ahead.
Im satisfied that if Allianz had told Mrs S about  the 12 months limit in the call she wouldnt 
have incurred the costs shes claimed for.
Allianz must  pay the claim  subject to the policy limit and excesses as detailed in the policy. If 
Mrs S has already paid the vet fees claimed Allianz  must pay interest as Ive detailed below.
I also want to mention that even if Allianz had told Mrs S about the 12 months limit in the call 
I dont think it could  have  fairly said the first clinical signs of the condition started in
September 2014.
I understand why under  the strict policy terms Allianz said the clinical  signs  of the knee  
condition first showed in 2014 as Mrs S vet notes of October 2014 first mention her dog 
having intermittent  lameness on his hind left leg' for about a month.
However, on a fair and reasonable  basis I generally  say that for policies giving  12 months 
cover from the first clinical  sign of a condition its fair for the 12 months  cover  for a condition  
to start when a consumer  can first reasonably make a claim on their policy.  Thats  usually 
when a vet recommends investigation or treatment for clinical signs displayed by the pet. 
Otherwise, a consumer could lose out on much or all of the cover  provided by the policy and 
wouldnt have the benefit of the cover theyve  paid premiums for.
Allianz has confirmed  that Mrs S didnt make a claim for her dogs knee condition in 2014  
and Ive seen  no evidence that she made a claim in relation to her dogs  lameness condition  
until the disputed  claim in 2018.
Theres no evidence of the vet recommending any investigation or treatment for lameness in 
2014. So I dont  think it fair for the 12 months  to start then. The vet notes show that the 
condition was discussed between the vet and Mrs S several times before the November 
2018 x-rays. From the vet notes evidence I think its likely to be fair to say the 12 months 
cover should  have started on 1 September 2017 as thats when the vet and Mrs S discussed 
the possibility  of surgery.
Ref: DRN26327013But I dont need  make a finding  about when the 12 months cover should have fairly started 
as I think Allianz needs to pay the disputed 2018 claim because  it didnt tell Mrs S about the 
time limited cover in the relevant call.
Allianz offered  Mrs S £30 compensation for her inconvenience due to failing  to give her full 
information about the policy. It also hasnt  explained why it didnt send Mrs S the call 
transcripts even though she requested them four times. During our investigation Allianz said 
it was sending the transcripts to her, which it should  have  done sooner.
I think Allianz should pay Mrs S £50 compensation in total for her distress  and 
inconvenience its caused her, in addition to paying  the claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs S said she had nothing to add. Allianz disagreed with my provisional decision. In 
summary Allianz said:
it appreciated it could  have  reminded  Mrs S about the type of cover she had. But she 
should have known about the cover as shed had a time limited policy since 2012  and 
it sent yearly policy documents
Mrs S didnt  complain to it that she didnt know she only had 12 months cover or said 
she wouldnt have proceeded with the treatment if shed known. It thought Mrs S just 
misunderstood that it had guaranteed the claim  when she called
it couldnt find where in the vet notes Mrs S told the vet she wanted to check her 
insurance cover before  going ahead with the treatment and asked me to clarify
the vet notes showed the clinical signs of the knee problem were seen in 
September 2014 and in October  2014 the vet discussed x-rays with a view to 
possible surgery but Mrs S chose to monitor. It didnt agree the 12 months cover 
should run from September 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz's response  to my provisional decision hasn't changed my mind  as to whats a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Allianz says when Mrs S called it to check if her dogs treatment would be covered it could 
have told her about the 12 months time limit. But I think Allianz should, not could, have  told 
her that fundamental information  when  she specifically  called it to ask about  cover. It should 
have given Mrs S that information even though it sent her policy documents.  Ive already  
noted that in a call with Mrs S, Allianz has accepted it should have told her about the 
12 months timeframe.
The vet notes on 1 September 2017  say:
disc with owner, would like to consider surgery,  sugg apt with TW to disc prs and 
cons, and will check with insurance. O to let me know if wishes  to proceed.
The vet notes on 17 July 2018 say:
Ref: DRN26327014adv ideally xray hips LSJ and stifles before making  plan.  O also needs to check  
ins cover.
 
Those two vet notes  show Mrs S wanted to check  she would be insured for the treatment 
before her dog had the treatment. 
Around the time of surgery the vet notes say on 21 November 2018:
spoke to client, agreed direct claim. Insured with  since a puppy. Policy limit is 
£2700, excess  is £75.00,  client  will bring in signed  claim form.
The policy cover information  Mrs S gave her vet is the information Allianz gave her in the call 
she made to check her cover. Theres no mention of the 12 months  limit, reflecting that 
Allianz didnt tell her in the call. 
Im satisfied that if Allianz had told Mrs S she only had cover  for a condition  for 12 months 
when she called to check her cover she wouldnt have proceeded with the treatment and 
incurred the costs claimed.  I think Allianzs failure  to tell Mrs S about the 12 months  limit 
when she called to check disadvantaged her. 
I accept the October  2014 vet notes mention the possibility  of x-rays for the knee problem. 
So it may be fair for Allianz  to say the clinical signs for the condition started then. But I still 
dont need make a finding  about  when the 12 months cover  fairly started. I think  Allianz 
needs to pay the disputed  2018  claim because it didnt tell Mrs S about the time limited  cover 
when she called to check her policy cover and its failure to tell Mrs S disadvantaged her.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings I uphold the 
complaint.
Allianz must  pay the claim  subject to the policy limit and excesses as detailed in the policy. If 
Mrs S has already paid the vet fees claimed Allianz  must pay interest as Ive detailed below. 
Allianz made  no comment on my proposed compensation award. It must also pay Mrs S £50 
compensation in total for her distress and inconvenience its caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Allianz  Insurance Pic to pay:
Mrs S claim subject  to the policy limit and excesses. If Mrs S has already paid those 
vet fees Allianz  Insurance Pic must pay interest* at 8% simple a year from the date 
Mrs S made the payments to the date of settlement, and
£50 compensation  for Mrs S distress  and inconvenience it caused.
Ref: DRN26327015Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*lf Allianz  Insurance  Pic considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs S a certificate  showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate
Ref: DRN2632701