K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with their home insurer, St Andrews Insurance  Plc (SAI), 
following its refusal to assist with costs  they will incur in reinstating  their garden following 
the failure of a retaining wall in 2012, which was owned by a third-party.
background
Part of Mr and Mrs Ms garden sits below and slopes  away  from a road supported by a 
retaining wall. In late 2012 the wall collapsed and debris and rubble fell, covering the 
garden below the wall. Mr M contacted SAI and it noted that ownership  for the wall was 
unclear and the council were involved as the area was felt to be unstable. Given the 
circumstances were  somewhat dire and uncertain SAI felt it should  offer some  
assistance to Mr and Mrs M. In a response  dated 7 December 2012 it said it would, 
under the accidental damage cover on the policy, pay for removing the debris  and 
rubble,  but Mr and Mrs M would have to provide  estimates to show what  that would 
cost.
Mr and Mrs M thanked SAI for the offer but noted  that removing the debris  and rubble 
likely couldnt be done in isolation without further  support  to the area also being given. 
They began pursuing the owner  of the wall with a view to establishing liability for 
reinstatement of the area. They used the legal expenses cover,  provided  as part of their 
home insurance but not by SAI, to take a court claim against the third-party owner.
The local council had initiated court proceedings against the walls owner to establish 
what repairs would be done.  It was determined the wall needed re-building  and the land 
returning to substantially the same  condition it was before. Mr and Mrs M say the 
party-wall procedure was invoked by the respondent party  in response to the courts 
findings. Whilst work was done  land was cleared  recreating a sloped  area below the 
wall and the wall was re-built  Mr and Mrs M thought that the order was not being 
properly complied with. They  thought  that the wall hadnt been founded deep  enough  
into the ground and this meant the gradient  of their garden had increased. It was later 
calculated that it would  cost over £85,000  (with some fees to be confirmed)  to rectify 
things, which  would  involve digging out 75 cubic meters of soil.
The court claim made under the legal expenses cover progressed  to a hearing  in 
January/February 2015. A meeting  was to be held prior to the hearing on 
28 January 2015  and the agenda  for that meeting  shows that one topic of discussion 
was going to be whether to bring  up for consideration,  as part of the hearing,  the subject 
of what necessary repairs might look like. All parties  agree that the decision that was 
made was to not include this, to keep the court claim focused on liability, and to use the 
party-wall procedure to dispute and decide  the rest. The result  of the legal expenses 
court claim was that the third-party was found  liable for reinstating the area.
The party-wall procedure came to an end with the walls owner making  an offer of 
settlement of £14,500. The legal expenses insurer felt Mr and Mrs M should accept this 
 that they had no better prospect for success. Mr and Mrs M were concerned at the 
short-fall this meant  theyd be facing and asked  SAI to pay £75,000.
Mr and Mrs M said that SAI was liable for payment of the sum for two reasons:
1)It had agreed to pay for removal of spoil in 2012  and there was clearly still spoil to be 
Ref: DRN24549642removed as the garden hadnt been returned to its pre-incident level.
2)In the pre-hearing meeting Mr and Mrs M had only agreed to having the actions for 
liability and repair  split because  the solicitor attending on behalf of SAI (in respect of a 
counterclaim which had been made  against Mr M by the defendant owner)  had 
verbally agreed that if the party-wall process left any short-fall, this would be picked 
up by SAI.
In a final response dated 18 January  2019  SAI said it was unable to make a payment to
Mr and Mrs M. It explained  the basis for the decision it had made in 2012 and that a 
review of photos taken  since  work was done shows the spirit  of that agreement has been 
fulfilled by the work of others.  It also said it had seen no evidence, particularly in light of 
why it made  the offer it did in 2012,  that an agreement had been given in 2015 to meet 
any short-fall.
Mr and Mrs M complained to this service  both about SAI and the legal expenses insurer.  
The two complaints have been dealt with separately, this complaint focuses on the 
complaint that exists  between Mr and Mrs M and SAI.
Our investigator ultimately  didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  But he said that if 
Mr and Mrs M could  show what it would have  cost them to remove  rubble  and debris in 
2012, and theyd likely still incur a cost for doing  so, they could present this to SAI for 
consideration.
SAI said it felt it had no outstanding  liability to Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M were 
disappointed with the findings.  Mr M said his profession means his word  about what 
happened in 2015 should be given weight, meaning,  on balance  it was likely a guarantee 
regarding shortfall  costs had been  made,  especially in light of emails which had followed 
afterwards. He also said that as spoil remains in his garden,  SAIs 2012 agreement  to 
meet the cost of removing that still stands. The complaint was passed to me to decide.
I didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld. But I felt that in order  to fully resolve  the 
complaint I needed  to also decide whether SAI most likely has any remaining liability  to 
answer in respect  of the claim Mr and Mrs M made to it in 2012 and which, to an extent, 
it agreed to honour. Therefore, I issued a provisional  decision to which both parties have 
now responded. 
My provisional findings were:
alleged pre-hearing  guarantee agreement
Taking this matter first, I havent seen anything that makes me think  such  an agreement 
was most likely reached. Mr M clearly believes it was, and whilst I dont doubt  his word 
SAI says it wasnt. And I cant see any reason why SAI would enter into such  an 
agreement which, if it had been made,  would  seem to tie it to paying unknown  and 
unknowable costs,  for work which may or may not have fallen for cover  under the policy. 
Whilst Mr M has said he was opposed to severing the actions for liability and repair  until 
this offer was made, if that was the advice  of his solicitors, Im not persuaded he would 
have had much choice in the matter. The legal expenses insurer  would have placed 
parameters on the service  it provided and may have withdrawn services if Mr and Mrs M 
refused to follow advice.
Ref: DRN24549643Having carefully considered the evidence, Im not persuaded the agreement 
Mr and Mrs M have  referred to was most likely made. I cant make SAI pay 
Mr and Mrs M £75,000 on the basis of what Mr M recalls having been  agreed.
2012 agreement  to remove rubble and debris
The 2012  letter from SAI refers to rubble and debris, not soil or spoil. Ive seen some 
photos showing the garden  pre-incident,  in the immediate aftermath and following  the 
work undertaken by the owner. I have to say I think SAIs view that the rubble and 
debris, which it agreed to pay for the removal of, has been  removed by the third-party  
contractors.
I understand that Mr and Mrs M believe that more soil needs removing to return  the 
garden to pre-incident levels. Had SAI dealt with a claim for Mr and Mrs M under the 
policy in 2012,  this is something they might have  been entitled to from it. But they chose 
not to pursue a claim with SAI at that time. Instead they took a legal route to first 
establish liability for the damage and then an alternative dispute  resolution service to 
determine whether  the court-ordered repairs which had been  completed had been 
executed effectively. This service doesnt  interfere  with the findings  of the courts  nor 
would we review  the findings of another alternative  dispute resolution service. It isnt 
reasonable, in light of the fact that Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the results  of those 
processes to now seek further recompense from SAI. Furthermore, in simple terms, the 
insurance contract Mr and Mrs M have with SAI doesnt cover them for poor 
workmanship on repairs completed  by third parties.
SAI said it had nothing  further to add. 
Mr and Mrs M said it had been unfair  for this service  to separate  their complaints about  SAI 
and their legal expenses insurer. To resolve this they want  their complaints reviewing in the 
round but also for me to consider how the complaint having been split in two has impacted 
the fairness of the outcome Im making.
Mr and Mrs M said that they felt I had erred in fact and law. They  clarified when the council  
took action against the walls  owners  and that the walls owners instigated the party-wall  
proceedings. Ive noted that and amended  the background accordingly. Their other 
comments are summarised as:
 
My background was wrong:
oInitially SAI declined  to assist and it was only after repeated contact from them  
that it changed its mind.
oIt agreeing to become involved was not born out of goodwill, it was an admission 
of policy  liability.
oIt was the insurers that had insisted Mr and Mrs M pursue the court  route, they 
had to oblige, it wasnt their choice.
oMr M did not agree the course of action set out during the 2015  meeting.
oIt was the surveyor during the party wall process who had commented  on what 
the best outcome was likely to be.
oThe investigator had initially upheld their complaint.
Regarding my findings in respect of the alleged pre-hearing agreement:
oSAI has not denied the agreement  was made.
oIt could have obtained witness statements but did not.
oIt has been shown  that its solicitor  was aware of the agreement.
Ref: DRN24549644oI must  make a finding  of fact.
oI should make that decision  on the balance of probabilities, not based  on what is 
most likely .
oIt is noted that whilst  I am able to do so, I havent  requested  additional evidence, 
such as witness statements.
oA review of the evidence available (listed in reply) shows on balance  an 
agreement was reached.
oIt was inappropriate  for me to add my own view about what likely happened,  and 
I was wrong (the extent of the required works  was known at the meeting).
oLogic dictates that they wouldnt  have  agreed  to removing parts  of the case  from 
the court action  without such an agreement as, similar to my findings about what  
the insurer would have been  unlikely  to have done, that left them  open  to 
unknown costs.
oThey were,  in fact and as noted by my decision,  forced into making  that 
agreement which was unfair.
oIt is my duty to review  only what is put before me  nothing  more nothing  less.
oTheir uncontroverted statement of what happened must be accepted as a matter 
of law.
In respect of my findings about the 2012 agreement:
oI shouldnt have  relied on the photos  to form my finding, I should have taken 
account of the insurers engineers report. He completed careful measurements 
and found that 75 cubic metres of spoil remains.
oI have sought  to apply a definition  to debris and rubble making it distinct  from 
spoil which is an illogical proposition. And the parties have never  sought to do 
this. The only reasonable definition, Mr and Mrs M said,  of material  relevant to 
this complaint is material that entered the property as a result  of the wall 
collapse  which has then variously  been referred  to as debris, rubble, spoil etc.
oAgain,  they couldnt pursue a claim with SAI at the time of the loss because SAI 
wouldnt accept liability for reinstating the wall. It was at the insurers  insistence 
that they followed the court  route and it was the other party that invoked  the party 
wall procedure.
oIn an email in 2014 they were told it had been  agreed SAI would remove  the 
spoil but it would only be necessary  for it to do so if the walls  owner  did not do 
so as part of the repairs. This is exactly what they are now seeking to do.
oThey dont seek for a finding to be made  that impinges on the previous court 
action or party  wall agreement. Rather that I make SAI honour its longstanding 
agreement to remove the remaining spoil.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it is frustrating for Mr and Mrs M to have their complaints split. 
I understand that, for them, they have a policy which provides  cover for damage to their 
property as well as for legal expenses; theyve had claims  under both parts of the policy  
and have felt entirely  let down by all involved. For them  this is one issue. However, I can 
only consider complaints  against one respondent  we cant consider joint complaints in 
the way that sometimes  happens in court proceedings. Whilst I realise they feel the legal 
expenses insurer let them down, and theyve explained how again in response  to my 
provisional findings about their complaint against  SAI, I cant take that into account  when  
Ref: DRN24549645making my findings on their complaint as it relates to SAI. All I can do is consider the 
part of their complaint  against SAI as their property insurer. 
My background is a summary of events as Ive found them  by reviewing the available  
evidence on file. Whilst SAIs offer of assistance was not unprompted, I think  it was 
made in an effort to assist  Mr and Mrs M in the situation at hand whilst forgoing any 
lengthy consideration of policy liability. But it is also clear that SAI, at that time, wasnt  
certain as to the extent of any liability it had under the policy and it clearly felt the walls 
owner had some responsibility for the consequences of the collapse.  Paying particular 
note to the final response letter issued,  I dont agree SAI admitted  liability  under the 
policy for all costs relating  to reinstating the area.  
SAI did not insist that Mr and Mrs M pursue the court route to settle any damage  to their 
property. Rather it said they may wish to utilise the legal expenses cover to assist with 
getting the wall re-built, whilst welcoming  estimates  from them for it to consider  for 
removal of debris and rubble (and to fix the fence).  Mr M then confirmed he wanted  to 
place any involvement  from SAI on hold. 
The surveyor did make  recommendations as to what was felt to be the best outcome. 
But the offer of paying £14,500 (which included some fees) did come  from the walls  
owner and the legal expenses insurer felt this should be accepted.  It wasnt  minded to 
support any further  challenge of it.
In my view SAI stating that no evidence  exists of an agreement being made during the 
pre-trial meeting in 2015 amounts to it saying no agreement was made.  It certainly hasnt 
accepted that an agreement  was made.  
It is my job as ombudsman to decide  what,  on the balance of probabilities is most likely 
to have happened. Where there  is an absence  of clear evidence  I am able to apply my 
knowledge and experience to determine what I think most likely occurred. Whilst, as 
I said provisionally, I dont  doubt Mr and Mrs Ms recollection of events, their recollection 
alone as the complaining party, isnt sufficient for me to find SAI entered into the 
agreement as they report occurred. I can request further information from either or both 
parties  but it is not my job to undertake  investigations in order  to prove or disprove one 
of the parties  positions. Rather the rules allow me to obtain evidence  if I feel such is 
needed to allow me to reach a fair and reasonable decision. I am satisfied that I can 
determine this matter fairly and reasonably based on the evidence  which  was readily  
made available to me by both parties.
The solicitor  acting for SAI, certainly from his correspondence, seems to have begun  
acting for Mr and Mrs M too. In certain of his emails he says he is writing  (to SAI) on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs M and he has to be careful to walk a fine line so as to avoid 
conflict. The solicitor  does say to SAI in an email sent in 2018 (and I did see when 
making my provisional decision):
You will recall  that we held the conference with counsel and at that it was decided it was not 
practicable to include  that damages claim at that late stage before trial and that [Mr M] would 
rely on the Party  Wall process, in the comfort that he also had the promise  from [SAI] to 
remove the spoil and make good.
But this is the first reference  from him to such an agreement having been made, over 
three years after the meeting took place. There is no potential for such  an agreement set 
Ref: DRN24549646out in the email that was sent to all parties  in preparation for the trial and the pre-trail 
meeting. No record was made of the actual outcome of the meeting and nothing  was set 
down in writing confirming any agreement or any understanding  the parties had reached 
at that time (not thats been made available to me anyway). I remain of my provisional 
view that this is not persuasive evidence of an agreement having most likely  been 
reached. 
I understand that Mr and Mr M disagree with my assessment of what  I think  the available  
evidence shows. I realise they would likely have felt uncomfortable about  the agreement  
reached at the pre-trial  meeting.  But Im not persuaded that, given  the context of the 
meeting and the roles of the participants, the way forward for the action was only 
reached by addition of a caveat the purpose  of which  was to alleviate their concerns. 
Conversely I remain  of the view that the context of the meeting, the role of the 
participants and that what was needed  to reinstate the area was still much in dispute  at 
that time,  does mean its unlikely that SAI would have made an agreement  as reported  
by Mr and Mrs M.  
SAI did not appoint the engineer. The engineer referred to made  findings  as part of the 
party-wall process in respect  of what he viewed as the participants liabilities and 
entitlements under that process. Here I am considering SAIs liability to Mr and Mrs M 
under the proposal it made  in 2012  to deal with removal of debris  and rubble as part of 
a claim for accidental damage under the policy. A claim  which  Mr and Mrs M did not 
seek to pursue for four years and where,  in the meantime,  others  took on work to 
reinstate the area in question. Im satisfied  that viewing before and after photos,  whilst 
taking into account  what it was SAI had agreed to, is a reasonable way of assessing  
whether it has any outstanding  liability  in this respect.
In 2012 SAI agreed to cover the cost of removing debris and rubble, it could  have said 
spoil but it did not. Im satisfied that debris  and rubble can be a part of spoil material but 
that spoil can encompass any waste material although it is often used in reference  to 
material left as a result  of work having been done,  particularly excavation  work. So 
I dont agree it was illogical for me to differentiate  between the two when SAI had chosen 
to use the term debris and rubble  when  making its offer in light of the responsibility  it 
believed the walls owner had for the consequences of the collapse.
In 2012 SAI asked  for estimates.  That is all that was required. Whilst work to remove  the 
debris and rubble couldnt be done  until the wall was made  safe etc, it wouldnt have 
been impossible  to obtain estimates. It was a complex scenario and would possibly have 
resulted in a complicated claim  but Mr M told SAI within days  of its offer being  made  
that he:
would like to 'park' your offer for the time being  while I work with [the legal expenses  insurer]  
to develop a complete solution with all interested parties.
Mr and Mrs M have  referred to further  discussion of SAI removing materials  from the site in 
2014. Whilst that may be the case, these discussions  still pre-dated the ultimate conclusion 
of the party-wall  process.  The result  of which was that Mr and Mrs M received settlement for 
what was determined and agreed  by that lengthy process  to be the extent of the owners 
liability for reinstating the area. 
So whilst the owner didnt remove all of the materials Mr and Mrs M think it should have as 
part of its works, settlement for that to be done has been made. Mr and Mrs M clearly think  
Ref: DRN24549647that settlement  is insufficient, but it was accepted.  It is not now for me to interfere with the 
findings of that investigation, which is what Mr and Mrs M effectively want  when  they ask me 
to say that SAI has outstanding liability for removing further material from the site (whether it 
be described as debris and rubble and/or spoil). 
I realise that my findings mean Mr and Mrs M will now have to incur a significant  outlay 
which theyd clearly hoped to avoid. That is regrettable. But, having reviewed everything 
Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  find that SAI has any outstanding liability  to 
them for reinstatement  of their property necessary as a result of a wall owned by a 
third-party collapsing in 2012.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2454964