K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that a loan application was declined because of errors made by London and 
Country Mortgages Ltd. He says this has caused  him financial loss and distress. He wants 
compensation. 
background
L & C apologised in its final response  for the fact Mr Ts loan application was declined  by the 
lender because of inconsistencies in his address keyed in on the loan application. But it said 
it had correctly noted Mr Ts occupation  and income  in line with the lenders definitions.  It 
confirmed the incorrect information was amended and the lender subsequently confirmed its 
decision to decline the application. As it had made  an error keying in the address  it would  
refund Mr Ts £135 application fee as a gesture of goodwill. It later agreed to increase  this 
offer to £185.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
L & C made an error but the loan application was still declined by the lender after the 
error was explained. Mr T has been  offered a refund of his application and valuation  
fee and he cannot  find that the error caused any financial  loss.
Although this situation wouldve  been  stressful for Mr T this isnt significant  enough to 
justify an award  of compensation.
Mr T doesnt agree and remains unhappy with the way L & C has handled  matters.  He says 
the declined loan has meant  the only option open to him was to sell his property. This has 
caused significant stress and financial loss. And he is stuck  paying higher mortgage 
repayments. Hes also paid compound interest on the £135  fee as it was paid by credit  card 
so that loss is now nearer £450. Hes suffered stress and financial loss as a result of L & Cs 
negligence. Hes worried it isnt facing any consequences for its error and this might happen 
to other  customers. He thinks  the lender shouldve given him the loan. Mr T has asked  for an 
ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
L & C accepts it made an error when  keying in Mr Ts address.  And it appears this led to the 
loan application  being declined by the lender a few days later.  L & C then contacted  the 
lender to correct  the information given  which  was reasonable.  The lender then reconsidered 
the application and again declined it.
Taking everything into account  Ive seen nothing to indicate that the loan application 
wouldve been accepted by the lender if L & C had keyed in the correct address information 
from the start. I think  on balance that its most likely  the loan application wouldve been 
declined, as it subsequently was, even  if correct information had been given when the 
application was first submitted.
Mr T now says he thinks the lender shouldve given him the loan but thats a matter  for the 
lender not L & C.
Ref: DRN21426772Mr T is also concerned L & C isnt facing any consequences for its error  and this might 
happen to other customers. But this service isnt a regulator. We cant  fine or punish a 
business or require  it to change it practices and procedures. General issues  about how the 
banking industry  works are a matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Mr T would like compensation for the stress hes been caused.  But as I think his application 
wouldve been declined  in any event he wouldve likely experienced the stress of this 
happening whatever L & C did. And its error  didnt  significantly increase Mr Ts distress or 
inconvenience. I also note the lenders decision was confirmed quickly, less than two weeks 
after the initial application was made. 
Furthermore all consumers  spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience 
in dealing with a complaint and putting things  right. We wouldnt generally  recommend  
theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably  depart  from this 
approach in this case.
Mr T says he funded the £135 application  fee on a credit card and with the compound 
interest payable this now amounts to £450.  But I see L & C offered to refund this to him 
about two months  after his application. Had Mr T accepted this offer then he wouldnt have 
had to pay more  interest  on his credit card. Additionally it was Mr Ts choice to make  this 
payment on a credit card and not pay the card balance off on time. So, Mr T hasnt mitigated 
his loss. And I dont  think I can fairly ask L & C to pay Mr T £450 for this as hed like. 
Mr T says L & C was negligent but thats a matter  only a Court can consider.
L & C has offered  to pay Mr T £185  compensation for what happened.  Taking everything into 
account, including the level of awards we make, I think thats fair. And I cannot reasonably 
ask it to pay any more. 
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ts frustration  I dont  see any compelling reason to change  
the proposed  outcome in this case. I simply leave  it to him to decide, if he hasnt already 
done so, whether he now wishes  to accept L & Cs offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2142677