K821x#15complaint
Ms V complains  that when she asked Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to defer  the 
selected retirement date for her pension plan it mistakenly cancelled  the direct debit for her 
monthly premiums as well. She feels shes been  treated unfairly  as she now has to correct 
that mistake at her own expense and is worried about the effect on her retirement  provision. 
She wants a clearer explanation  of how to make up the contributions and further  
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  suffered.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 20 February 2020. A copy  of it is attached 
and it forms part of this final decision. The full background to the complaint is set out in my 
provisional decision and as such I wont reiterate it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning on upholding the complaint and 
asking Aviva to pay £500 compensation.  In summary, having looked at all aspects of the 
complaint, I made several conclusions as follows:
The £300 Aviva  had offered for the distress and inconvenience  this matter had 
caused Ms V was fair and reasonable.
The cumulative  effect  of both the pension and bank  statements Ms V received during 
the six years that premiums werent paid,  ought to have been  enough  for her to 
notice the premiums had been stopped.  As such I didnt think  Aviva should have to 
treat a lump sum payment now as previously missed contributions, and therefore I 
didnt think it needed to make a contribution  to the missing premiums  or compensate  
Ms V for any lost investment growth.
But it was now advisable for Ms V to take financial advice regarding a lump sum 
contribution. The advice would most likely  be at some cost to Ms V and was an 
expense she would  have  to bear through  no fault of her own. I said that Aviva should  
pay up to £500 towards  the cost of this advice  or provide  the advice itself without 
cost.
I asked Ms V and Aviva to let me know if there was anything else they wanted  me to 
consider.
Ms V didnt raise any further points but she was concerned at having been contacted by 
Aviva asking to pay her the £500   before Id issued a final decision. She said she believed 
Aviva wanted to settle the complaint as soon as possible and prevent her from raising further 
points. She didnt think it was appropriate for Aviva  to have acted in that way.
However, Ms V did also confirm shed been  paid the original £300 that Aviva offered for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Aviva didnt make any further comment but did confirm it had contacted  Ms V and was going 
to pay her according to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22110082As neither Ms V nor Aviva  sent me anything  else to consider, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings. Im therefore upholding Ms Vs complaint, for the same reasons given in 
my provisional decision.
Im unsure  why Aviva chose to contact  Ms V directly to offer payment, prior to my final 
decision. I would have expected it to have commented on the various alternatives I proposed 
and to have confirmed payment of the original £300  compensation.  But I do accept that it 
has made a conscious  effort to pay Ms V the amount I recommended  as quickly as possible.
I take Ms Vs point though  that this approach may have concerned her and made her feel 
she had to accept  the money without responding to my provisional decision.  But I cant  say 
she was prevented from engaging in further discussion with us, that option  remained open to 
her. So, in the circumstances, although Aviva  may have acted slightly outside of usual 
practice, it has paid Ms V what I proposed and Im satisfied the matter  has now been 
resolved along  the lines that I recommended in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
I uphold Ms Vs complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Aviva should pay Ms V 
£500 towards any financial advice required which I understand it has already  done. 
I also consider the £300 that has been paid for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
Ms V to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22110083Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms V complains  that when  she asked Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) to defer the selected 
retirement date (SRD) for her pension plan it mistakenly  cancelled the direct debit for her monthly 
premiums as well. She feels shes been treated unfairly  as she now has to correct that mistake at her 
own expense and is worried  about the effect on her retirement provision. She wants a clearer 
explanation of how to make  up the contributions  and further  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
shes suffered. 
background
Ms V holds  a pension plan with Aviva that had an original SRD of 12 February  2013. She made  
monthly net contributions  of £240 into the plan. When she received a pre-retirement pack about her 
options she contacted Aviva  and deferred the SRD  to 12 February  2025.  Aviva completed her request 
but also cancelled  Ms Vs monthly direct debit and no further contributions were made. 
Ms V didnt  notice this error until January  2019 when she contacted Aviva to ask why her plan had 
been made paid up and her monthly contributions hadnt been applied. Aviva acknowledged its error 
but believed that as it had provided Ms V with regular  annual statements since  2013  which  showed 
no contributions had been  made  it wouldnt pay anything towards the missing contributions. It did 
however offer £300 in compensation  for the overall inconvenience Ms V had been  caused. 
Ms V said she wanted  to make a one off contribution to her plan to make up the missing contributions. 
She asked  Aviva to calculate the amount shed  missed and how to go about making a payment. Aviva 
said she had missed contributions to the value  of £14,400  net but she should be careful not to 
overpay, taking into account  any other plans  she held and her UK relevant earnings for the tax year in 
which she wanted to make the payment. 
But Ms V wasnt happy  with the response as she wanted Aviva to make a larger contribution towards  
her missed payments. 
She also felt Aviva could have been more  helpful in explaining the options available  to her in making a 
retrospective payment and she said that, if she made a one off payment it should  be treated as 
making up the missed payments, and Aviva  should add any investment growth shed  lost in the 
previous five years. 
Ms V then brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators said it shouldnt  be upheld.   She 
thought the £300 Aviva  offered as compensation for the inconvenience its error caused was fair and 
reasonable. She believed that Ms V should have noticed the error from her pension and bank  
statements which would  have  resolved the matter sooner.
She also said that Aviva had provided sufficient support for Ms V to make  her one off contribution, 
and it wasnt unreasonable  for Aviva  to refer Ms V to an adviser  to ensure she received suitable  
advice if required. 
Ms V didnt  agree and made the following points:
She thought a large company like Aviva should have a checking process in place  to ensure  
such mistakes werent  made.
She accepted some responsibility for not picking up the missed  payments but said she would 
only be looking for unexpected entries on a bank  statement not missing ones.
She didnt  look at the detail  of her pension statement just the headline forecast  amount shed 
be receiving. She thought  Aviva should have spotted  this mistake.
Aviva had made a subsequent  error when  she restarted her contributions and it was her bank 
that spotted the error  not Aviva.
Ref: DRN22110084She put her trust in Aviva and thought shed  been treated badly.
The £300  compensation  that was offered wasnt sufficient to cover the cost of finding a 
financial advisor.
So as no resolution could be found to the complaint its been passed to me for a review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ms V has made us aware of a further issue when she recommenced regular contributions to her plan. 
Ive seen that Aviva  has offered compensation for that error. Its up to Ms V if shes happy with that 
outcome, if she remains unhappy she should contact Aviva  to make a further complaint. Then if she 
remains unhappy she can bring  that complaint to us.
To be clear  what  Im considering here is the issue of the monthly  payments that werent  taken from 
2013 onwards and whether  Aviva should do more to compensate Ms V for its error.
The distress  and inconvenience offer
Theres no dispute here that Aviva did mistakenly cancel  the direct debit  for Ms Vs regular monthly  
pension payments. Its acknowledged this was a genuine error and has offered 
Ms V £300. Ive thought carefully  about this offer in respect of the impact  this error had on Ms V. And I 
can see, from the evidence shes provided, that this caused her some concern  as shes now worried 
that she wont  have sufficient retirement provision.  
And I can see that shes somewhat uncomfortable with the instructions Aviva has given her as to how 
she can repay  the missing funds. So I think this matter  has caused Ms V some level of distress and 
inconvenience. But overall I think  the sum offered is within the range of what  Id expect to see for an 
error such as this and Im not going to ask Aviva to do any more there.
  
Investment growth  loss
Ms V has said that she thinks Avivas system should be improved so such errors will be picked up and 
cant happen  again. And I understand Ms Vs frustrations at what happened here. But our role isnt to 
tell a firm how to go about  its daily business or to punish it, we need to consider if the business  has 
made an error which has caused a financial loss and/or some level of inconvenience. In this case 
Ms V says that if her payments had been made as they should have been her fund would  have 
benefitted from the growth on the premiums. She wants that growth to be backdated by assuming her 
lump sum payment  represents  the missing  payments.
But Aviva  says Ms V should have  picked up the error from her bank and pension  statements. So it 
wont treat the lump sum payment as the missed payments and therefore  wont backdate any growth.
Ive looked at the statements  Ms V received  carefully. The monthly premium wasnt an insignificant  
amount to be deducted  from her bank account,  but shes said she only looked for unexpected  entries 
in her bank  account not missing ones  and that doesnt seem an unreasonable  approach to take 
over such matters. And I think, on balance, that I couldnt  safely  say she ought  to have picked up on 
the missing payment from her bank account.  So Ive also considered the pension statements  Ms V 
received  about which  she says she only ever looked at the headline  figures, not the breakdown of 
the pension and its composite values.  
Ref: DRN22110085Ive looked at the transfer  values that were noted each year and I think  its hard to conclude that 
would have given Ms V any cause for concern.  Theres only one occasion  when the value didnt 
significantly increase from year to year and it wouldnt have been clear and obvious  that was because  
of missing payments. 
But on the fourth  page  there was a section which  showed payments and charges  which for the first 
statement in 2014 showed  £900  but for each subsequent statement showed  nil. I think this was 
information Ms V might  have  looked at when considering  her overall  pension position  to ensure  it 
continued to be funded correctly. Although  I can understand, based on what  shes said, why Ms V 
might not have looked beyond the first page of her pension statement
But I do think  that the cumulative effect  of both the bank and pension  statement information  ought  to 
have been enough for Ms V to have noticed that her monthly  premiums had been stopped. I can 
appreciate that individually the bank and pension statements might not have been enough to make 
her aware,  but I think when taken together they ought to have been sufficient.
So, based on what I think should have happened, I dont  think Aviva should have to backdate Ms Vs 
lump sum contribution  to when  payments were first missed. Thats because  Ms V should have spotted 
the error and mitigated her position so that the payments could have been restarted, at least after the 
first pension statement  was received.  And for the same reason I dont think  Aviva should have to 
make a contribution  to the lump sum payment either. 
Cost of financial advice
Ive also carefully  considered Ms Vs claim that Avivas error is going  to cost her  through no fault of 
her own  to put right. She says Aviva has suggested she should  consider getting financial advice to 
make the lump sum payment and as she doesnt believe its explained the process  properly she 
thinks shell need to obtain  and pay for such advice.
And I have sympathy  with Ms Vs position here as the process isnt as straightforward as it seems, 
because she has to look at her overall pension  contributions for the last six years and also calculate 
how much  she can contribute  against  the annual allowance. Theres also the potential to use carry 
forward facilities.  So,  as Aviva isnt going to treat the lump sum payment as the missing payments, 
this payment would need to be considered  as a new contribution, which I think Aviva is right to 
suggest could require financial advice.
But, while I believe Ms V could have mitigated her position  regarding the missing payments, I think  it 
was likely  she would have needed to take advice to make any ad-hoc  lump  sum payment. And the 
requirement for her to now do so isnt her fault,  its been caused by Avivas initial error. So I think , 
regardless of whether  she should have spotted  the missing  payments sooner  its more  likely than not 
that she would have required  financial assistance and I dont believe Ms V is responsible for that 
situation.
So I think Aviva should pay for any financial  advice  Ms V requires  regarding an ad-hoc  lump  sum 
payment to her pension. I think it should pay up to the value of £500 and on Ms Vs part she should  
obtain at least two different  quotes for the cost of the work. This should  be paid on production of a 
valid invoice up to the total Ive indicated.
Alternatively Aviva can undertake the financial advice itself,  advising Ms V on the lump sum payment. 
But it needs to take responsibility for ensuring the payment is made  within  the relevant  tax and 
pension rules, and taking into account Ms Vs current  situation.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Ms Vs complaint in part.
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  should either undertake  the financial advice required to invest 
Ms Vs pension lump  sum, or pay up to £500 towards financial advice if Ms V has to seek it 
elsewhere. 
Ref: DRN22110086Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited  should also pay the £300 it offered in respect of any distress and 
inconvenience caused  if it hasnt already  paid it.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2211008