K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G) mis-sold him a 
mortgage.
background 
I issued my provisional decision in February 2020.  The contents of my provisional decision 
are attached to this final decision  and form part of it. In my provisional decision I explained 
why I was minded  to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I invited  both parties to let me have any 
further submissions before I reached a final decision.
Neither party added anything further, and having reviewed everything again I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings.
redress
Itll be impossible to put Mr M back in the exact  position he would have been in, but Im 
satisfied this redress will be as close as we can get. Mr M has confirmed he repaid his 
mortgage on 30 August  2019, and so I order L&G to:
for the debt consolidation of loan three
calculate the amount Mr M paid, in interest  and capital repayments,  to that part of his 
mortgage balance  to the date the mortgage  was repaid ,
calculate the amount of the loan that still outstanding as part of his mortgage balance  
at the time the mortgage  was repaid,
calculate the amount it would have cost Mr M to pay the loan back had it not been  
consolidated, and
add together  the first two figures, deducting  the third and pay the result as a lump 
sum.
Interest should  be added onto that sum at the rate of 8% simple  a year from the date 
the mortgage was repaid until the date of settlement. 
for the ERC
calculate  the difference  in interest  paid on the new mortgage  versus  the interest  
that would  have  been  due on the original  mortgage  and loan one for the period  
between  when  the new mortgage  actually  completed  (February  2008)  and when  
the new mortgage  should  have  completed  (August  2008).  
[In this calculation  by new  mortgage  I mean  the sum of the total amount  paid to 
the old lender  to redeem  the mortgage  and the amount  paid to loan one to 
redeem  that. Loan  three  shouldnt  be included  in the calculation  as that shouldnt  
have  been  redeemed,  nor should  the set-up  fees and other  costs  be included  as 
these  would  always  have  been  incurred,  just six months  later.  It should  be a 
straight  interest  cost comparison  between  the original  mortgage  and loan one on 
the rates  they would  have  been  paid at until August  2008,  against  those  two 
Ref: DRN23517662being  repaid  by the new mortgage  in February  2008.  This calculation  will show  
how much  interest  Mr M saved  by not waiting  to remortgage  as the new interest  
rate was lower.]
deduct  this amount  from the ERC  that was paid,
add interest  on the residual  sum at the new mortgage  interest  rate for the full life 
of the mortgage,  and then at the rate of 8% simple  a year from the date the 
mortgage was repaid  until the date of settlement.  This should  then be paid to Mr M 
as a lump sum.
If L&G considers it should  deduct basic rate tax from the 8% simple interest elements of the 
award, it can do so, provided  it supplies Mr M with the relevant tax certificate. The paying of 
interest at the mortgage interest rates isnt taxable as that purely reflects  the extra cost to 
Mr M of having a larger mortgage (thus  more  mortgage interest) than he should  have  had.
As L&G has already  offered to settle  the issue relating to the will package in line with our 
normal redress Ill only reiterate here that is a refund of the mortgage  interest  on the will 
package fee plus £150 compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Legal  & General  Partnership Services  Limited  to pay 
redress as laid out in the redress section  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23517663COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr M complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services  Limited (L&G)  mis-sold  him a mortgage.
background
L&G advised  Mr M about  a mortgage on 31 January  2008. 
At the time he had a mortgage of about £33,800  which  was split into two sub-accounts,  the larger 
having an interest rate of 7% and the smaller an interest  rate of 6.34%. On aggregate,  Mr M was 
paying around £250  a month to this. It is recorded on the fact find that the mortgage had an early 
repayment charge (ERC) of about £1,300 until 13 August 2008.
Mr M also had three separate loans  outstanding:
1)About £21,400 at an interest  rate of 7.9% for which he was paying  around £150 a month with 
254 months remaining.
2)About £40,000 at an interest  rate of 5.03% for which  he was paying  around £260  a month 
with 290 months remaining.
3)About £1,600 at an interest rate of 7.9% for which he was paying  around £180 a month with 
eight months remaining.
L&G arranged a new mortgage for Mr M that completed on 29 February  2008  (thus incurring the ERC  
on redemption of the old mortgage) at an interest rate of 4.99% which consolidated the original 
mortgage as well as loans one and three. Loan two was left to run normally.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld  in part. As L&G didnt agree  the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Theres already  two elements of this recommendation  that L&G has accepted werent suitable; the 
sale of PPI and the sale of a will package. The PPI was dealt with a few years ago, and an offers  
been made in respect of the will package part of this complaint in line with our normal redress for 
these.
Whilst Mr M moved  onto a lower interest rate that doesnt mean  it was the right thing for L&G to have 
recommended he do. Thats because  to get that lower rate Mr M incurred an ERC which hed then be 
left paying interest on for the remaining 19-year  term as the new mortgage had to be increased by 
that amount to pay it. It was recorded  on the fact find that Mr Ms mortgage would  only incur an ERC 
until 13 August 2008, fortuitously the same date the new mortgage offer was available until. So L&G 
should have advised Mr M to delay  completion  until that date, that way he could still benefit  from the 
lower interest rate but he wouldnt incur an ERC to do so. 
L&G has said this was explained to Mr M and he chose  to proceed, but this was an advised sale so it 
was the advisers responsibility  to recommend the best course of action for Mr M, not just give him 
information and let him decide. Mr M has told us the advice came  about following a cold call from the 
adviser and that until then he hadnt considered remortgaging as he had no pressing need to reduce 
his outgoings (either in cost,  or in number). This shows L&Gs argument  that Mr M didnt want  to wait 
to complete the remortgage is unlikely  to have been the case had Mr M been advised  thoroughly and 
Ref: DRN23517664correctly. Having considered  everything  I dont think completing the remortgage before the ERC 
period ended  was in Mr Ms best interests so Im satisfied the adviser should have recommended  that 
Mr M waited until then.
Theres no doubt that the advice to include loan one into the mortgage  debt was correct. This was 
already a secured  loan with a similar  term remaining and by incorporating  it into the mortgage the 
interest rate was reduced from 7.9% to 4.99%. Having considered everything Im satisfied that was 
the right thing for Mr M to be advised to do.
But the incorporation of loan three  into the mortgage debt was inappropriate. This was an unsecured  
loan with only eight months left to run on the term, or two months  by the time the mortgage should  
have completed in August 2008. It was affordable on its own and Mr M should  have been advised to 
leave this loan to run to term separately. Again L&G has said this was discussed  with Mr M, but as I 
explained above discussion  isnt good enough when  this is a regulated mortgage sale whereby the 
professional mortgage adviser must advise its customer. Having considered  everything I dont think  
the consolidation of the small unsecured loan was in Mr Ms best interests so Im satisfied the adviser  
should have recommended  that Mr M didnt  take that action
To summarise Im satisfied  the recommendation should have  been that Mr M remortgage onto the 
rate he did but not until his ERC period ended in August  2008. Im also satisfied the recommendation 
should have been that he incorporate loan one into the mortgage debt but not loan three (the small 
unsecured loan with only months left to run).
proposed redress
Itll be impossible to put Mr M back in the exact  position he would have  been in, but Im currently 
satisfied this proposed redress will be as close as we can get. I understand Mr M repaid his mortgage 
on 30 August  2019, if thats not the case I would  ask that he let me know in his response to this 
provisional decision  as it will alter the redress Im minded to award.  
On the basis Mr Ms mortgage was repaid on 30 August 2019, Im currently minded to order L&G to:
for the debt consolidation  of loan three
calculate the amount  Mr M paid, in interest and capital repayments, to that part of his 
mortgage balance  to the date the mortgage was repaid ,
calculate the amount  of the loan that still outstanding as part of his mortgage balance  at the 
time the mortgage  was repaid,
calculate the amount  it would have cost Mr M to pay the loan back had it not been  
consolidated, and
add together the first two figures, deducting the third and pay the result as a lump sum.
Interest should be added  onto that sum at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date the 
mortgage was repaid  until the date of settlement. 
for the ERC
calculate  the difference  in interest  paid on the new mortgage  versus  the interest  that 
would  have  been  due on the original  mortgage  and loan one for the period  between  when  
the new mortgage  actually  completed  (February  2008)  and when  the new mortgage  
should  have  completed  (August  2008).  
[In this calculation  by new  mortgage  I mean  the sum of the total amount  paid to the old 
lender  to redeem  the mortgage  and the amount  paid to loan one to redeem  that. Loan  
Ref: DRN23517665three  shouldnt  be included  in the calculation  as that shouldnt  have  been  redeemed,  nor 
should  the set-up  fees and other  costs  be included  as these  would  always  have  been  
incurred,  just six months  later.  It should  be a straight  interest  cost comparison  between  
the original  mortgage  and loan one on the rates  they would  have  been  paid at until 
August  2008,  against  those  two being  repaid  by the new mortgage  in February  2008.  
This calculation  will show  how much  interest  Mr M saved  by not waiting  to remortgage  
as the new interest  rate was lower.]
deduct  this amount  from the ERC  that was paid,
add interest  on the residual  sum at the new mortgage  interest  rate for the full life of the 
mortgage,  and then at the rate of 8% simple a year from the date the mortgage was repaid 
until the date of settlement.  This should then be paid to Mr M as a lump sum.
If L&G considers it should deduct basic rate tax from the 8% simple interest elements of the award,  it 
can do so, provided it supplies Mr M with the relevant tax certificate.  The paying of interest at the 
mortgage interest rates  isnt taxable as that purely  reflects the extra  cost to Mr M of having  a larger 
mortgage (thus more  mortgage interest) than he should have had.
As L&G has already offered  to settle the issue relating  to the will package  in line with our normal  
redress Ill only reiterate  here that is a refund of the mortgage  interest on the will package  fee plus 
£150 compensation.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties  by the due 
date, my provisional decision is I uphold  this complaint  and order Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited to pay redress as laid out in the proposed redress section above.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351766