K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc closed his account without notice following a 
transaction on his account which it suspected  to be fraudulent.
Background 
Mr M sold a car to someone who Ill refer to as Mr A. Mr A paid him a deposit of £200  and, a 
couple of weeks  later, the balance of £15,300 when he collected  the car. The money was 
credited to Mr Ms business account  (he is a sole trader), by same day online transfer. When 
the balance was received, Mr M transferred the whole amount out of his account  by same 
day online  transfer to another third party to whom  he owed money. 
The following  day, Santander closed his account.  It told him it had decided  to withdraw its 
banking facilities following a fraud investigation.
Santander said itd been contacted by Mr As bank. It said Mr A claimed the transactions 
were fraudulent and that his account had been  compromised.  
Mr M appealed the decision  to close  his account and provided some paperwork to show  that 
the money was for the sale of a car.
When Santander contacted Mr As bank with this further evidence,  that bank said it didnt 
have a record of any fraud investigation or any contact from Mr A to dispute the transactions.
Santander apologised to Mr M and reopened his bank account, reassuring him that there 
were no concerns about any fraudulent  activity  on his account. Mr M complained about what 
had happened  and asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hed been  
caused. 
Santander paid him compensation of £200.  Mr A didnt think  this reflected the time and 
money hed wasted trying to put things right, or the stress  it caused  him.
Our adjudicator thought Santander should  have kept better records  of what  had prompted its 
fraud investigation  it couldnt show us evidence that itd been contacted  by the third party  
bank. He thought Santander  should pay Mr A an additional £150.
Santander agreed.
Mr A didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said he wanted £4,200  to reflect  the 14 days hed 
had to spend trying to sort this all out, using his daily rate of £300.  He said,  in summary, that:
 Hed spent time on the phone every day speaking to Santander and to Mr A.
 He reported  this as a fraud to the police and told it the car had been stolen. He could 
have been arrested  for wasting  police time; if the car had been found  it would  have 
been impounded and he would  have had to pay to get it back.
 He has lost friendships  and his reputation and people wont  now do business  with him.
 If he hadnt pursued this, he would have been left with no money, no car and no 
banking facilities.
Ref: DRN28222522My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the FCA's  financial crime requirements) place extensive obligations on regulated  
financial businesses to verify customers identity, establish the purpose  and intended  nature 
of the business relationship and the origin  of funds. Businesses are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship and scrutinise transactions to ensure 
they're consistent  with the business'  knowledge  of the customer  and their expected business 
patterns.
Taking these obligations  into consideration, I need to decide  if Santander acted  reasonably 
in closing Mr Ms account.
The account  terms and conditions allowed Santander to close Mr Ms account  without  notice,
 where we are aware that keeping your account  open would be unlawful or cause  us to be 
in breach of any of our legal or regulatory  requirements.  [19.3]
Santander says it received  a phone call from Mr As bank and that Mr A claimed his account  
had been compromised and the transfers  of £200 and £15,300 into Mr Ms account were 
fraudulent. But Santander hasnt been able to provide  a recording of that call, or a proper 
record of it. Mr As bank told us it has no record of a call being made. It says it never 
received any claim from Mr A that his account  had been compromised or that he hadnt 
authorised the transactions.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr As bank contacted Santander about these payments.
But I can see why Santander  may have identified  these transactions  as unusual for other 
reasons. Mr M received more than £15,000  into his business account from a third party  and, 
almost immediately, Mr M transferred the money out of the account. I dont think these 
transactions were  consistent  or in line with Mr Ms expected business patterns. So I think 
Santander may well have acted reasonably in wanting to investigate these transactions. 
But  in the absence of either party disputing these transactions, and with Mr M being  able to 
provide evidence that hed received the money  for the sale of a car  I think Santander 
wouldve concluded fairly quickly that there hadnt  been any fraudulent activity on Mr Ms 
account and it wouldnt have closed it.
Santander closed  Mr Ms account  on 15 November 2017. It reinstated it just over two weeks  
later. I think it should compensate Mr M for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused. Its 
agreed to pay Mr M £150 in addition to the £200 its already paid. I think  it should  pay more  
than this  but not as much as Mr M would like. Let me explain why.
Ref: DRN28222523Mr M thought the money hed paid to someone he owed was going to be recalled; and that 
the money would  then be returned to Mr A. This would effectively have left him with no car, 
and no sale money  for that car. He was worried about his relationship  with the person he 
owed money to  and how he would be able to pay that debt. And he says his relationship 
with Mr A broke  down  because Mr A felt Mr M was accusing him of fraud. This must have 
been very stressful for Mr M. The transactions took place on his business account,  but the 
sale and purchase  of cars doesnt  seem to be Mr Ms trade. So the sale of a car seems  to 
have been a one-off transaction. Mr M hasnt provided evidence to show  that his business 
has been affected by the breakdown of his relationship with any parties involved in this 
transaction. So whilst I think  he should  receive some compensation for the distress  caused, 
without any evidence of the further  losses hes mentioned, I dont think  I can fairly tell 
Santander to pay for these.
Santander told Mr M that Mr A had reported  the transactions  as fraudulent. Mr M reasonably 
thought hed been a victim of fraud. He reported  this as a crime to the police; and the police 
reported the car as stolen. This would have been  time consuming for Mr M and added to his 
distress. He worries about what might  have happened as a result of his report. But his 
worries didnt materialise. Whilst I dont underestimate the distress  Mr M felt, I dont find he 
should be compensated for something that might  have happened.
Mr M says he wants to be compensated at his daily rate of £300 for 14 days. But, whilst 
I dont doubt this was time consuming  for him to resolve, hes not evidenced that he lost out 
on work for 14 days solely as a result of Santanders  actions. And I think  it would be difficult  
for Mr M to evidence what business he might have completed during this period if it hadnt 
been for the time hed had to spend on this.
Mr M hadnt done anything wrong and Santander caused him a lot of distress  and 
inconvenience, including time spent reporting this to the police.  I think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for Santander to pay him £300  in addition to the £200 it has already paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK plc should  pay Mr M £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2822252