K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that in 2016  he never  received a cheque  for compensation in relation to 
a mis-sold PPI policy. Capital One (Europe) plc says it sent Mr W a cheque which was 
cashed.
 
background
In 2016 Mr W complained to Capital One about  a PPI policy attached to a credit  card.  Mr W 
used a Complaint  Management Company (CMC) to represent him.
On 25 October 2016 Capital One wrote to the CMC.  In its letter it agreed to refund all the 
PPI premiums charged to the account.  It also agreed to refund the credit card interest 
caused by the PPI premiums. And Capital  One added compensatory  interest calculated at 
8% simple  for the time Mr W had been out of pocket. In total Capital Ones offer was £73.22.  
The letter went on to say Capital  One would issue a cheque which  should  arrive  within  ten 
days.
Sometime in 2018 Mr W contacted Capital One again to complain about  the PPI policy.  
Capital One sent Mr W a copy of the letter from 2016 stating it had already upheld  his 
complaint and made payment.
Mr W complained  to this service saying he never received the letter  of 25 October 2016 or 
the cheque for £73.22. 
In August  2019  our adjudicator wrote to Mr W saying that they didnt think  his complaint 
should be upheld.  The adjudicator thought it most likely that Capital One had issued  the 
cheque and that it had been paid into an account  in Mr Ws name.
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators findings and asked  for an ombudsman  to review his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the letter dated 25 October 2016 and addressed to Mr Ws representative that 
Capital One intended to send a cheque to Mr W within the following ten days.
Capital One has shown us a screen  shot of its internal system that it says shows  the cheque  
was issued on 27 October 2016  and was paid into a bank account on 16 November 2016.
Capital One has also been able to tell us the cheque number and the account number and 
sort code  of the account the cheque was paid into.
Our adjudicator gave  Mr W the details of the account the cheque was paid into. The 
adjudicator also noted that in a separate complaint Mr W brought  to this service he supplied 
the same  account  details  on a form he completed to accept an offer of compensation.
In response to the adjudicators findings,  Mr W said he was able to provide  statements from 
the bank account to show the cheque was not paid into his account in November 2016.  
However, we have not received any such evidence  to date.    
Ref: DRN22285582All this is persuasive evidence that Capital One did issue  a cheque in October  2016  and that 
it was paid into Mr Ws account  in November 2016.
After weighing  up all the evidence I dont think it would be fair for me to require Capital One 
to reissue the cheque  from October 2016. It follows that I dont uphold  Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Capital  
One (Europe)  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2228558