K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that CIS General Insurance  Limited  provided poor service  when he made a 
claim on his car insurance policy and didnt offer him enough for his written off vehicle.
background
Mr Ms car was damaged in a non-fault accident. The other  driver accepted liability.  Mr M 
thinks CIS took too long to deal with the claim. He says the sum it offered wasnt  enough to 
replace his car. He also says the car was moved to a salvage yard a long way from where 
he lived, so he couldnt easily  inspect it. 
CIS there was a two-week delay  in the claims-handling. It offered Mr M £75 compensation. It 
said it had used the national trade guides  to value  Mr Ms car. CIS noted  that Mr M had 
raised other  issues with us (excise duty,  rail and toll road costs). It said he hadnt raised 
these issues with it, but that they were uninsured costs anyway. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. He thought CIS had acted 
reasonably. He didnt think  there were unreasonable delays in the claims-handling, so he 
thought CISs offer of £75 was fair. Having checked  the valuations in the trade  guides,  the 
investigator thought  CISs offer of £1,226 for Mr Ms car was also fair. He didnt think  it had 
done anything  wrong in choosing where to move the car. He agreed with CIS that some  of 
the items  Mr M wanted refunded werent covered by his policy.  
Mr M said averaging out trade guide  valuations  didnt  reflect  the price of buying a 
replacement car. He wanted the issue to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
It looks as though Mr M has accepted the investigators view on all the issues  except the 
valuation. For the avoidance of doubt,  I dont think CIS caused undue  delay in the claims-
handling. CIS advised Mr M it would be moving the car to free storage. He didnt query that 
and he had a few days to inspect the car before  it was moved. Travel costs  and excise  duty 
arent items covered by the policy  but Mr M can raise them with the other  insurer.
In terms of the valuation,  CIS used the approach  we think  is fair and reasonable to value  
Mr Ms car. The trade  guide valuations are based on extensive national research of likely 
selling prices nationwide. CIS dismissed the lowest of the valuations  and based its offer on 
the average of the two higher ones. The investigator checked a fourth  guide  and got a 
valuation of £1,129. Thats in line with two other  highest valuations. 
As the three  highest trade guide valuations were  within £240 of each other,  I think they were 
consistent. CIS offered Mr M a sum between the top two valuations, so I think it acted 
reasonably. 
Its often the case that the sum offered by an insurer for a car is less than the price of similar  
cars advertised for sale. We dont think advertised  prices are particularly reliable, as they 
reflect asking prices  and are open  to negotiation.  And small differences  between similar cars 
can sometimes make a big difference to the price  theyre sold for. 
Ref: DRN26080802Valuing cars isnt an exact science and its often  difficult to say exactly  what the market value 
of a particular  car is. I appreciate that Mr M thinks theres a principle at stake. But we think 
the fairest way to determine  a cars  likely market value is by relying  on trade guide 
valuations. Occasionally,  a consumer is able to show that an insurer should  have offered 
more for their car. But that isnt usually the case. I dont think  Mr M has provided  evidence to 
justify requiring CIS to pay him more.  
As I dont think CIS acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2608080