K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny) irresponsibly lent 
to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Sunny provided  to Mr I between  May 2018 
and October 2018.  Mr Is borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest
Repayment*
1 25/05/2018 20/06/2018 6 £500.00 £132
2 28/09/2018 20/12/2018 6 £900.00 £283
3 11/10/2018 20/11/2018 6 £100.00 £283 + £33 =
£316
  * these amounts  have been  rounded up/down
Mr I has said Sunny did not lend to him responsibly  as he could  not afford the loan 
repayments. Sunny has said for every loan application it completed a eligibility, 
creditworthiness and affordability check.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Is complaint in part and thought loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. Sunny disagreed so the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr I could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN21940392refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Mr I hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators opinion on loans 1 and 2 so I wont be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Is other  lending.  
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. And I can see from what  we
know about Mr Is finances  that he had little disposable income by the time loan 3 was taken  
out. 
As Ive said above,  in order for loan 3 to be sustainably affordable for him, he
needed to be able to make  the repayments on time, while  meeting  other  reasonable
commitments and without having  to borrow  again.  I can see from the information  Sunny
obtained before lending  loan 3 that Mr I had little income left over after meeting his usual
monthly living costs and other commitments.
Mr I declared  monthly expenses of £1,220 against a monthly income of £1,300 when taking 
out loan 3. Sunny has told us that the expenses declared when  loan 3 was taken, included 
the outstanding repayment amount for loan 2 (£283).  But I still think  Sunny had enough  
information to see that Mr I was likely to have little to no disposable  income left to afford  the 
repayment on loan 3. Or at the very least the results  shouldve prompted Sunny to carry out 
further checks.
I say this because  from what I can see of loan 3, Mr I had about £80 left after paying his 
usual monthly commitments and had to make a minimum payment of £33 to Sunny for loan 
3. That would leave  him with just £47 for any unexpected expenses  and leaves almost no 
margin for error in terms of his declared expenditure.
Ref: DRN21940393Sunny had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable. Therefore I think  it ought to 
have realised that leaving Mr I with disposable  income (after the loan repayment) was most  
likely to cause him difficulties. So, it was wrong to give loan 3. 
Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr I paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Is credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Is complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2194039