K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that QIC Europe  Ltd has declined their home insurance claim for 
storm damage and voided  their policy because of a County Court  Judgment  (CCJ) 
registered against Mr P.  
background
Mr and Mrs Ps policy with QIC had renewed  in February 2019.  In March 2019  Mr P called 
QIC to make  a claim for storm damage. In the course of that call the adviser made some 
checks and found  that Mr P had a CCJ registered  against his name on 25 January. He said 
he wasnt aware of it. He was advised that the matter would need to be referred to the 
underwriters before it could proceed. In the meantime he was advised to undertake  any 
temporary repairs and take photos.
Mr and Mrs P received a letter from a surveyor proposing to visit the property. An 
appointment was arranged  for 20 March. In the meantime after a referral to the underwriters 
QIC decided it wouldnt deal with the claim and would be voiding the policy  back to the 
renewal date. However it advised  Mr P of this by letter and had cancelled the surveyors  
appointment. As a result Mr P took a day off work  unnecessarily and lost money  as hes self-
employed. 
QIC decided that Mr P had made a careless  misrepresentation  when  renewing  the policy 
and refunded the premium. It offered £30 for the confusion over the surveyors appointment, 
which Mr P refused. He said hed been  misled into thinking his claim would be paid.
On referral to this service  Mr P explained  that the CCJ related to a loan his son had taken 
out, for which he was a guarantor. He had received letters both in his and his sons name  
from the County Court  but had passed them unopened to his son for him to deal with. He 
also said hed received previous letters from the loan company which hed also passed  to his 
son.
Our investigator decided  that Mr P wasnt aware  of the CCJ when renewing the policy, 
although he said that QIC had asked a clear question about  it. He didnt think Mr P had 
made a careless  misrepresentation, so said that QIC should  deal with the claim and 
reinstate the policy. He also said that QIC should  pay Mr P £140 representing his loss of pay 
for the missed appointment.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I did think  Mr P had made a careless 
misrepresentation, so QIC acted  fairly  in saying  it wouldnt  deal with the claim and in voiding 
the policy back to its renewal date. I said it should  pay the £30 compensation offered in 
respect of the missed  surveyors  appointment and Mr Ps loss of wages, of £140.
QIC accepted my provisional  decision. It presumed Mr P had provided evidence  in support 
of his loss of earnings.
Mr and Mrs P accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN23618752The following  were my provisional findings:  
In respect  of buying or renewing insurance the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 applies. Under  this act It is the duty of the consumer to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to the insurer.
Also particularly for renewal the relevant matters I have taken into account are:
how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were,  and
In the case of a failure to respond  to the insurers questions  in connection with the 
renewal or variation  of a consumer insurance contract, how clearly  the insurer  
communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the possible 
consequences of failing to do so.).
I think the policy documentation makes clear that the policyholder must give complete 
accurate and up to date answers. The renewal letter said You  need  to let us know if 
anything is incorrect or your circumstances have  changed, otherwise your insurance  may be 
invalid
In this case the renewal  documents  set out the list of questions  which  Mr and Mrs P had 
answered when  taking out the policy, one of which was:
Are all of the following statements about you correct?
 And one of the statements  was:
None of the occupants have been  served  with a County Court Judgement within  5 years 
The answer given  was I agree. 
Mr P repeated this in the renewal call on 18 February and also did so at the beginning of the 
call in March when  he notified the claim. I think the questions were clear  and the 
consequences of failing  to answer  accurately clearly set out.
So I have  to determine whether Mr P took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
And Im afraid that I dont  think  he did. When our investigator spoke to him, Mr P agreed that 
he had had letters from the County Court which hed passed unopened  to his son. He also 
admitted to having  received correspondence from the loan company which  he again passed 
to his son, considering that it was his sons responsibility. But I think he would have known 
that as a guarantor he was equally liable  in the case of default. He was aware  the matter  
was being taken to Court and that letters were  addressed to him personally about the matter.
So I think the fact that he ignored  those letters and sent them  unopened  to his son means  
that he must  have known  that it was likely that if the loan wasnt repaid he would be pursued  
in the County Court. As Ive said the County  Court letter was addressed to him personally, 
and the judgment  registered in time (25 January) to reach him by the renewal date (18 
February).
So whilst I dont doubt that at the time of the renewal Mr P wasnt aware specifically that a 
CCJ had been  registered against  him, I think he failed to take reasonable care to find out. 
QIC has shown us its underwriting guide  in such cases which  shows  that it wont  underwrite 
policies where  there is a CCJ against the policyholder or one of the occupants of the home 
So as Ive found that Mr P he did fail to take reasonable care,  QIC was entitled  to void the 
policy.
Ref: DRN23618753I note Mr Ps objection in that he feels that QIC should have made the search  before offering 
him renewal  terms. It could have done but its not usual for an insurer  to do this  it relies  on 
consumers to give accurate answers.
Taking Mr Ps point that he was misled into thinking his claim  would be dealt with as he was 
advised to have repairs carried out, Ive listened to this phone call. He was advised to carry 
out temporary repairs. This would have been to make the roof waterproof. All policyholders  
would be expected to do that whether or not a claim was being  made.
But I do agree  that Mr P should have been told the surveyors appointment had been 
cancelled, before he took the time off work. I note that QIC only advised  him of this by letter,  
rather than by telephone, as it didnt  have an email address for him. As he was self-
employed, he lost money which he says was £140. So I think that QIC should pay Mr P 
£140. Also it offered him compensation of £30 for the inconvenience, it should  pay that.
I think it reasonable to accept Mr Ps figure for loss of earnings and as its such a small  
amount I dont intend to ask him for further proof. 
Apart from that a neither party has made any other  substantive comments on my provisional  
findings, those  findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr P a total of £170 
compensation (£140 for loss of earnings and £30 compensation for inconvenience).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2361875