K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  they were misled by an adviser for a predecessor business to Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited, about the life cover they were  advised to take out. In particular 
they complain that:
It wasnt made clear that they would have to increase contributions by more  than 5% 
each year.
They were given  the impression there would only be a review  after 10 years with no 
clear indication  of subsequent  reviews.
The underlying  investment  hasnt been  managed competently when compared  to say 
the growth in the equity market.
The charges  have been high relative  to the investment performance.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs P saw an adviser  who recommended  they take out a joint Whole of Life 
(WOL) plan having identified they had a need  for life cover. The plan is split into two policies, 
one that provided  an initial amount of life cover of £200,000 for Mr P and the other providing 
an initial amount  of £140,000 of life cover  for Mrs P.
The plan was on a maximum  sum assured basis and was reviewable after 10 years and then 
every five years thereafter.  Mr and Mrs P also chose to index the plan so that cover 
increased by 5% each  year.
The first review was in 2013  but it was the second review in 2018 that led Mr and Mrs P to 
complain. At the time of the review  Mr Ps cover had increased to just short  of £418,000 with 
a premium of around £170. The outcome of the review was that the minimum Mr P needed 
to pay to keep  the same  level of cover until the next review in five years  was £265. And to try 
and avoid the need for any increase in the future  he needed to increase the premium to 
£1,226. 
Mrs Ps policy had a sum assured of £291,000  with a premium of £32. As with Mr Ps policy 
she needed to increase  her premium to keep  her cover the same. And if she wanted the 
possibility for no further increases the figure  was around £426.
I gave a provisional decision on this complaint a copy  of which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  I didnt uphold the complaint  and in short  I made the following findings:
Mr and Mrs P had agreed to increase the cover by 5% each year but this didnt mean 
the premium payable for that increase would be the same. And Aviva had done 
nothing wrong  in increasing  the premium by more  than 5% to provide the additional 
cover.
I was satisfied Mr and Mrs P were aware  there  were reviews beyond the first review 
at 10 years for various  reasons. This included the fact that the information  they were  
given on review after 10 years  included information about further reviews.
Even if I was satisfied they werent  made aware that subsequent reviews could mean 
a substantial increase  to premium I wasnt persuaded this meant they wouldnt have 
taken out the WOL plan  on the basis that if they were willing to accept the 
possibility of a substantial increase after 10 years there  is no reason to think  they 
wouldnt have been willing to accept that possibility in later reviews.
Ref: DRN26633012There is no evidence that Aviva has done  anything wrong  with regard to the 2018 
review.
There is nothing to suggest that Aviva  mismanaged the investment fund and it cant  
be compared to the equity market,  as Mr P suggests, as the amount invested is used 
to pay the cost of cover  as these increase and the premium isnt enough.
I gave both parties the opportunity of providing  further information they wanted me to take 
into account before making my final decision. Neither party  has provided any further  
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further  information has been  provided  by either party  there is no reason to change the 
findings in my provisional decision. I still think Aviva has done  nothing wrong for the reasons 
I have set out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26633013COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain they were misled  by an adviser  for a predecessor  business  to Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited, about the life cover  they were advised  to take out. In particular they complain 
that:
It wasnt made clear  that they would  have  to increase contributions by more than 5% each 
year.
They  were given the impression  there would  only be a review after 10 years  with no clear 
indication of subsequent reviews.
The underlying investment hasnt been managed competently  when compared  to say the 
growth in the equity market.
The charges have been high relative  to the investment performance.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs P saw an adviser  who recommended they take out a joint Whole of Life (WOL)  
plan having identified they had a need for life cover. The plan is split into two policies, one that 
provided an initial amount  of life cover of £200,000 for Mr P and the other providing an initial amount 
of £140,000 of life cover for Mrs P.
The plan was on a maximum sum assured basis and was reviewable after 10 years and then every 
five years thereafter. Mr and Mrs P also chose to index  the plan so that cover increased  by 5% each  
year.
The policies were first reviewed in 2013.  But it was the second review in 2018 that led Mr and Mrs P 
to complain. At the time of the review  Mr Ps cover  had increased to just short  of £418,000  with a 
premium of around £170. The outcome of the review was that the minimum Mr P needed  to pay to 
keep the same level of cover  until the next review in five years  was £265. And to try and avoid the 
need for any increase  in the future  he needed to increase the premium to £1,226. 
Mrs Ps policy  had a sum assured of £291,000 with a premium of £32. As with Mr Ps policy she 
needed to increase her premium to keep her cover the same. And if she wanted the possibility for no 
further increases  the figure was around £426.
The complaint as set out above is what Mr and Mrs P referred to us. But the complaint initially  made  
to Aviva was about being unaware of reviews after the review at 10 years.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response letter (FRL) it said the WOL  was a suitable 
recommendation based  on the sales documentation it had considered. It said the adviser had made 
specific reference to the 10 year review in the suitability  letter  and that Mr and Mrs P had been 
provided with the key features document. It said that if Mr and Mrs P thought the plan was only 
reviewable once after 10 years it wouldve expected them to complain after receiving  the review  pack  
in 2013.
We contacted Aviva about Mr and Mrs P being  unhappy with the extent  of the increases to their 
premiums as a result  of the review in 2018 and it issued  a further FRL in which  it explained how the 
plan worked.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  She said on the 
information she had seen that the plan was discussed at the outset  and that Mr and Mrs P were 
provided with all the documents. She thought the documents made  clear  that the plan would be 
reviewed on a regular basis. She also explained  that the 5% increase referred to the annual 
indexation increase not the policy reviews. 
Ref: DRN26633014Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicator. In short they made  the following  points:
 
The letter  from the adviser refers to it being  likely that premium will have to be increased 
substantially at the 10 year review. This set their expectations  and there was no reference to 
further substantial reviews. 
The fact they didnt raise  a complaint  in 2013 is surely redundant as Aviva have waived any 
time-bar argument.
What has been missed is that the 2018 review is the most substantial of all. The scale of the 
increase to the premiums for the two policies  wasnt only a shock  but Aviva  have failed  to 
attempt to justify such an increase.
They  are contending  that the increase in premium with the associated reduction in cover is 
excessive and this excessive increase  must  be quantitatively justified.
There was a lack of clarity  in both the notification of the review periods and in the level of 
annual premium increases   it wasnt entirely clear that the annual increase  would be greater 
than 5%.
As agreement  hasnt  been  reached the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I am not surprised Mr and Mrs P are concerned about the outcome of the 2018 review given the 
figures involved. I understand their concern  about the plan becoming unaffordable  which  I accept  is a 
real possibility.  I sympathise with the position they find themselves in but Im not persuaded that Aviva  
has done anything wrong.
I think  it would be helpful if I explain briefly how their particular plan/policies work.
Generally the premium for a WOL plan is split with part of the premium going  to pay the costs of life 
cover and the rest being invested. As Aviva explained their premium  buys units in the underlying 
investment fund and then units are deducted to pay for the cost of providing the benefits  of the plan  
in the main the cost of providing life cover. 
The cost of life cover increases as people get older  and the investment amount is used to help pay 
the costs when it is determined that the premium alone isnt able to meet  those costs going forwards.
Mr and Mrs P had a maximum cover plan. What this means is that they have a high level of cover for 
an initial low premium. Because the premium is kept low for the first 10 years most of it is used to pay 
the costs of providing the life cover,  with only a small  part remaining  invested. 
This makes it likely on review that an increase to premium will be necessary, as the existing premium 
together with the amount  invested is unlikely  to cover the costs into the future. That is why the adviser  
warned there was likely to be a substantial increase  on review after 10 years,  although  as it happened 
Mr P didnt need to increase  his premium on first review. 
A standard cover WOL plan couldve provided the same amount of cover  but this wouldve  required a 
higher premium, allowing more of the premium to be invested and making it less likely   although  not 
certain - that a premium increase would  be necessary in the future. 
The adviser  referred  to having considered standard cover but that Mr and Mrs P had chosen to set 
the benefits at the maximum level.  Im not satisfied in the circumstances that the adviser did anything  
wrong in recommending a maximum  cover  plan.
. 
Turning to the specific  points  raised  by Mr and Mrs P I have considered  these under  various 
questions as set out below.
Ref: DRN26633015Did Aviva increase the premium by more  than 5% when it shouldnt have done?
Mr and Mrs P have said it wasnt clear that the annual increase would be more  than 5% each year.  Mr 
P has produced  some  calculations which he relies  upon as showing  that the increases were more 
than 5% each  year. But the plan he and Mrs P took out didnt include a 5% increase to the premium.
The documents I have seen show that Mr and Mrs P could  choose to either  increase the contribution 
or the cover. The application shows that the increase to cover  box is ticked rather than increase to 
contribution box, and that the increase was to be 5%. In other words  Mr and Mrs P applied to increase 
their cover by 5% not their premium. 
A 5% increase  in cover doesnt mean the premium will increase by the same percentage.  This is 
because the amount payable for the increase in cover is based on the cost of providing that additional 
cover not the percentage  increase in the amount of cover. It is more likely than not that this is the 
reason Mr and Mrs Ps premiums have increased  by more than 5% each year.
I note that the illustrations  Mr and Mrs P provided  refer to an increase  in contribution not cover. But I 
dont think these  illustrations relate to the plan they actually took out given  that the amount of cover 
specified for Mrs P was £100,000 not the £140,000  she actually ended  up having cover for.
The suitability letter also states:
You have indexed the cover  by 5% to help reduce your shortfall  in future years. You feel a 5 % 
increase would match  your anticipated rise in income per year.
The reference  to a shortfall I think is a reference to the shortfall in cover the adviser  calculated  Mr P 
needed, which the fact find shows as £370,000.  I think  the reference to matching his rise in income is 
likely to refer to him being able to afford the additional cost of a 5% increase in cover through 
increases in his income.
Given the above  I dont think Aviva have done anything wrong with regard  to the annual increase to 
the cover and the increase  to premium resulting from that.
Were Mr and Mrs P made aware of the reviews?
In the questionnaire they completed after making their complaint  they stated they discussed with the 
adviser:
That there would be a 10 year review. There was no indication that there would be any further 
reviews..Illustration indicated that contributions  would increase 5% per year.
But they have also said that the only review they were told could lead to a substantial  increase in the 
premium was the review at 10 years and that there was no clear indication of subsequent reviews.  
This seems to suggest, contrary  to what they said in the complaint questionnaire they completed, that 
they were aware there would be subsequent reviews.
Also, based on the evidence I have seen, I think it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs P were  
made aware there would be further reviews after the first 10 year review. 
The adviser  said in the suitability letter  that:
Although first consideration  was given to standard cover you have chosen to set the benefits at the 
maximum level. As I explained this will mean, to maintain your level of cover, that it is likely  that the 
premium will have to be increased substantially at the 10 year review.
Ref: DRN26633016I dont think that what he said precluded substantial increases in later reviews after the first review at 
10 years, although I acknowledge that he couldve  been clearer.
But Mr and Mrs P have  also pointed to a statement in the key facts document headed  Risk factors  
which states:
When we review your policy,  normally after 10 years, we may increase your premium if our 
experience of claims shows that we should  increase all planholders premiums.  We will tell you if we 
are going to do this.
Mr and Mrs P have said that they relied  on this and thought it meant that the policy would only be 
subject to an increased premium on review at 10 years. But if they read this paragraph I think it is 
more likely  than not they also read the preceding paragraph which states:
 The level of cover  is guaranteed  for the period of time shown in the personal illustration  enclosed. At 
the end of this period  and at regular  intervals  thereafter  (my emphasis ), we will review  your plan and 
you may find you have to contribute more to maintain your cover at the same level. The higher the 
level of cover you choose the more likely it is that the contribution will need  to increase  in the future. 
The cost of providing  cover  rises steeply as you get older and therefore the increase in contributions 
may be significant.
So I think they were  made aware, firstly that the policy would be subject  to ongoing reviews and, 
secondly, that a significant  increase was possible on any of the reviews - and the older they were the 
more likely  a significant  increase would be needed because the cost of cover  rises steeply as you get 
older.
I am reinforced in that finding by what happened in 2013.  I note Mr and Mrs P have suggested that 
what happened in 2013  isnt relevant as Aviva waived  the time-limit argument it had made previously. 
But I think the information they were given  at the time is relevant to their understanding of the plan. 
I accept that on review there was no need  to increase  the premium for Mr Ps policy and the increase  
to Mrs Ps policy to keep the same level of cover wasnt that significant. But I think the review 
paperwork made  clear that would only be until the next review in five years  and that a significant  
increase on further review at some point was likely.
The policy review statement of 2013 included  the following, under  the heading Policy reviews
Your policy is designed to have regular reviews, as described in the Policy Conditions that you 
received when you bought your policy. We have recently reviewed  your policy. These reviews  are 
undertaken periodically in order to determine whether  the level of cover provided can be sustained by 
the premiums and, if not, to notify you of the alternatives. In calculating the premium needed to 
sustain the cover, assumptions are made about the future. To the extent that these assumptions are 
not borne out in practice, cover or premiums  may need to be adjusted at each future review date.
The policy review outcome for Mr Ps policy  states:
In the short term (my emphasis) the current monthly premium of £103 is sufficient to support the 
current level of cover  (of £325,779) until the next review as long as premium payments are up to 
date.
But it then warns  that:
Please note however that using our current assumptions we expect  that to continue providing this 
level of cover in the longer term, a premium increase is likely to be needed  in the future  (although this 
is not definite).
Ref: DRN26633017It says that although action isnt needed now a premium  increase to just short of £622 would make it 
less likely  that a premium  increase in future would  be necessary  and that they expected this level of 
premium would be enough  to maintain cover  until death.
I note Mr P has referred to the information about increases to the premium being in the small print. 
But even if I ignore  what  I have set out above,  he had to choose what he wanted to do. The options 
he was given  were; to increase the premium to £622;  reduce  the level of cover to just over £59,000; 
or to keep the premium  the same with the same level of cover. 
Mr P chose the last option which made  clear  this would  provide the same level of cover for five years 
until the next review, but that it was likely  an increase in premium would be needed  in future. This 
wasnt part of the small print but was information contained within  the options he was given and had 
to make a choice about. 
Mrs P review  also made clear that if she wanted to try and avoid premium increases in the future she 
would need to increase  her premium from £19 to £203 - a very significant increase, as with the figure  
of £622 for Mr Ps policy.
Given a figure of £622 was being suggested for Mr P if a further premium increase  was to be avoided  
in the future  (and £203  for Mrs P) and that the options they did choose warned an increase in 
premium was likely in the future I think Mr and Mrs P were aware in 2013  that a significant increase at 
a future review was likely, if they wanted to keep the same level of cover throughout  their lives.
I dont think the information they were given  in 2013 supports what  they have said about being misled 
about a substantial increase only being a possibility on review  after 10 years. If that is what they were  
led to believe I think the clear indication in 2013 of the sort of premium  that would be needed to avoid 
further increases  (£622  for Mr P and £210  for Mrs P) wouldve led them to complain  at the time.
But even if I accepted it wasnt  made clear  a substantial increase could happen at some point after 
the 10 year review, Im not persuaded  that this means they wouldnt  have taken  out the plan if this 
had been made clear. If they were prepared  to accept a substantial increase on review at 10 years  
as they accept they were - there is no reason to think they wouldnt  have accepted that possibility on 
further reviews.
Have Aviva  done anything wrong with regard to the 2018 review?
Mr and Mrs P have made specific reference to the 2018 and said this was the most  substantial  of all. 
Mr P has suggested that Aviva are increasing  the premium and reducing  the cover.  But it is clear the 
options they have are either to increase the premium or reduce the cover - there is no option to do 
both.
I acknowledge the proposed increase to premium is significant. But that is because as costs have 
increased with their age they havent been building  up an investment pot that can help pay those 
costs going forwards. The amount in the underlying investment for Mr Ps policy, as at the 2018  
review, was only £839. 
The figures  in the 2018 review are based on Avivas assumptions about what  the costs are likely to be 
going forwards and the likely returns on any investment amount. There  is nothing to suggest that the 
figures they have provided in the 2018 review are unreasonable. These are not unusual figures with 
maximum cover  WOL plans, especially where there has been no increase  in the premium on earlier 
review.
There is also nothing to suggest that Aviva  have  mismanaged the investment  fund. It cant be 
compared to the equity market. As I have explained, with a maximum  cover plan most  of the premium 
goes towards  the costs  of providing the cover and isnt invested. And the investment pot that is 
available is used to help pay the costs  of cover as they increase and the premium  isnt enough to 
Ref: DRN26633018cover these. This is why there was a drop in value  in the value of the policies between the 2013 
review and 2018 review.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained. 
Philip gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2663301