K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is that American Express Services Europe Limited:
wrongly registered two linked addresses  on his credit file, and
failed to acknowledge the consent order entered into between the two parties.
background
Mr W complained  about other  matters  than those described above, but our investigator  
concluded we shouldnt investigate them. This was because  they pre-dated  a consent order  
approved by the County Court, under which  Mr W and American Express had agreed, on 
confidential terms, to discontinue their claim  and counterclaim in legal  proceedings regarding  
the credit  card account.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and recommended  that American Express  should 
remove the two addresses and pay Mr W £300 compensation for failing to acknowledge the 
existence of the consent order in its more recent dealings with Mr W. 
American Express said it was prepared to do what the investigator recommended. 
Mr W initially responded saying £300 was too little compensation. He also wanted  to know  
more about how the second address came to be registered by American Express. He 
thought American  Express had been acting maliciously.
In any event, Mr W thought American  Express should remove the addresses  straight  away.
The investigator replied  saying she didnt think American Express  had acted  maliciously. 
She said she still thought  £300 compensation was fair. She also asked if American Express 
would remove the addresses immediately, which American Express agreed to do.
In light of this, Mr W agreed to accept £300,  provided the investigator made  it clear  the sum 
was accepted only in respect  of the part of Mr Ws complaint shed looked into. The 
investigator provided the clarification.
However, American Express didnt remove the addresses.  It said it needed to replace the 
removed addresses  with another, correct address. Mr W in turn saw no need  for a 
replacement. 
Our investigator contacted Experian  which said it had a work around which  would avoid 
another address being registered. The investigator asked American  Express  to contact 
Experian accordingly. 
Meanwhile Mr W, who was adamant no replacement address was required, himself  
contacted Experian. He said Experian (a) confirmed American Express  hadnt contacted it 
about removing  the addresses and (b) removed the addresses at his request, without 
replacing them with another  address, and compensated him for not removing the addresses  
when he first asked it to do so.
Mr W said he would like the ombudsman to consider compensation for points he said 
werent covered  by the investigator, namely:
Ref: DRN29449642Mr W had spent a lot of time communicating  with Experian to confirm that American 
Express hadnt contacted it to remove the addresses. And at no time had Experian 
told American Express the addresses  could only be changed, not removed.
It had been  extremely stressful for Mr W when American Express, in ignorance of the 
consent order, had threatened  to involve debt collectors  to collect  a non-existent  
debt.
It was also stressful  to be told several  times by American Express it was sending 
Mr W the £300 compensation only for it not to arrive. The payment of the £300 
should have been  independent of the legal requirement to remove the addresses.  
Despite the consent order, Mr W would like the ombudsman service to investigate 
how American Express continued  to levy monthly fees it had been told to stop paying  
in 2007, and to look into further  charges made  on the account years after the card 
expired. 
my earlier,  provisional findings
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was minded to find as follows:
My understanding was that American Express didnt  say it had approached Experian 
to request removal of the addresses, or that American Express had asked  Experian  if 
the addresses could  be removed  without  a replacement. Rather, American  Express 
knew that Mr W didnt want the replacement address, but the credit bureaux team of 
American Express was insisting there needed to be a replacement.  So presumably 
American Express thought there was an impasse.
The normal situation would  be that a financial business wouldnt be expected  to settle  
part of a complaint if other parts of the complaint  were still unresolved. Either party to 
the complaint,  in such a case, would  be entitled  to ask an ombudsman to rule on the 
whole complaint.
That said, American Express  agreed  to the investigators recommendations, which  
included removing the addresses  with no suggestion the addresses would need to be 
replaced. If American Express had objections,  stemming from one of its own 
departments, to the unconditional removal, the ideal time to express  those objections  
was before it accepted the investigators recommendations.
And American Express then went further, at the investigators request, and agreed  to 
remove the addresses straight away, again unconditionally, and independently of the 
rest of the complaint.
So I could understand Mr Ws frustration when American Express  then said it 
wouldnt remove the addresses without providing  a replacement.
I could also understand why that frustration would be compounded when it seemed 
American Express didnt approach Experian to ask if the addresses  could be 
removed without there being a replacement address   as had apparently been 
achieved by Mr Ws own efforts.
Id also not seen any evidence that American Express had approached Experian  as 
the investigator suggested,  regarding the work around.
While  Id said both parties  were entitled to have the whole complaint decided  by an 
ombudsman, I thought in the circumstances as Id described them American  Express 
should have been  more proactive in trying  to remove  the addresses after it agreed to 
remove them. 
Ref: DRN29449643I thought Mr W deserved to be additionally compensated for the feelings of frustration 
Id described. I thought £100  would be a fair figure.
I considered the investigators recommended figure of £300  compensation included  
the stress caused to Mr W from the mention of debt collectors, as this stemmed  from 
American Express not acknowledging  the existence  of the consent  order. In any 
event, I thought £300 was a fair figure  for American Express  to pay as compensation 
for this item (ie for the reasonably foreseeable consequences, including stress  to 
Mr W, of the actions  American Express took in ignorance of the consent  order).
I didnt criticise  American Express for not sending the £300 compensation to Mr W at 
a time when it was clear the whole complaint hadnt been settled. As could be seen 
from the narrative  of my decision, Mr W hadnt  considered and still didnt consider 
£300 was enough  to compensate him.
I didnt agree it would  be right for the ombudsman service to investigate the fees and 
charges Mr W had referred to. They pre-dated  the consent order,  and so for the 
reasons already given it wouldnt be right for us to look into them.  If Mr W argued that 
he didnt know about the fees and charges when he agreed to the consent  order  and 
that this should make  a difference, then with respect  he might wish to consider 
approaching the County  Court  and asking to modify the consent  order. (I made no 
recommendation that he should  do so, nor could I comment on his prospects of 
success if he were  to make such an approach.)
So I was minded to order  American  Express to pay Mr W a total of £400 compensation.
The parties  responses to my provisional findings
Both Mr W and American Express accepted my provisional findings, though Mr W said:
he did so on the understanding that outstanding matters which pre-dated the consent 
order were in no way prejudiced; and
he wasnt happy that I felt American Express wasnt obliged  to remove  the wrong 
addresses immediately, when it was legally required to keep information correct.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see the point  Mr W is making  about keeping information accurate. In this case there 
was the complication  that American Express,  while willing to remove the addresses,  believed 
it had to replace  them  with another  address.  And that led to an impasse.  I have, of course,  
decided to award Mr W more compensation in view of how American Express  handled that 
issue.
I confirm this decision doesnt affect matters  pre-dating  the consent  order, as those matters  
were expressly excluded from our investigation.  
I confirm my provisional findings  as final. 
my final decision
I require American Express Services Europe Limited  to pay Mr W a total of £400. 
Ref: DRN29449644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2944964