K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to Mr M. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  RBS sold Mr M the policy  
at the same  time that he applied  for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr M has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Mr M says he was told he had to have PPI to get the credit card. If this did happen it would  
have been unfair for RBS to say this. However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this 
happened unless  there was reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has 
said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making  the allegation  should  present evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they didnt do something,  especially when it 
was such a long time ago. And against this, the form Mr M singed does present the PPI as a 
choice, and I can see that the PPI box has been ticked. But overall, without stronger 
evidence, I cant fairly  say the PPI was added without Mr Ms genuine  agreement. 
RBS says it didnt  recommend the PPI, in the sense of saying it was suited to Mr Ms 
individual circumstances   which means it was instead for Mr M to decide if it was suitable 
for his needs. However, even if it had recommended the PPI, I dont think  it would have been 
an unsuitable recommendation.  The PPI could have helped pay the credit card bill for a 
period longer than Mr Ms employer sick pay and other resources lasted. And it would have 
paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mr M more  
financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mr M wouldnt need to fall back on other 
resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. And I cant see any other reason why a recommendation  would have been 
unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well RBS explained the PPI. Its possible the information RBS 
gave to Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I dont  think, in his 
circumstances, full information about costs  and benefits would have affected whether he 
took the PPI. And it doesnt look like hed have  been  affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This means  RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M. But RBS has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Ref: DRN20786522RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, and so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078652