K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that Scottish Widows Limited hasnt  been collecting payments into his 
stakeholder pension plan in line with a request he made in November 2015.
Mr H is represented in bringing this complaint by his wife, Mrs H.
background 
Mr H got in touch with Scottish  Widows  in November 2015 to restart payments to his 
pension. Payments were  to be made by direct debit, and Scottish  Widows  wrote to him on 
26 November 2015 confirming the details  of this. It said monthly payments of £200 would be 
collected from 1 December 2015. 
However, last year Mr H noticed  that payments werent being made to the pension. It 
transpired that no payments had been  collected at all since the direct debit was supposed to 
have been set up. Mrs H raised a complaint with Scottish Widows on Mr Hs behalf.
Scottish Widows  said it had set up the necessary arrangement to collect payments under  the 
direct debit, but the first payment scheduled  for 1 December 2015 had failed  although it 
didnt know why. It said it ought to have notified Mr H of that at the time, so for not doing  so it 
apologised and offered him £250.  
Scottish Widows  also said that Mr H shouldve noticed that payments werent  being  taken 
from his bank account and that it had sent him annual statements, which also showed  that 
payments werent  being made.  But it said it would  backdate the payments if Mr H wanted to 
make them up now.
Mr and Mrs H referred  the complaint to us. Mr H said hed received  confirmation that the 
direct debit had been  set up and had received a number of letters  notifying  him of changes  
to the contribution amounts over the years. As a result,  and by virtue of having  a hectic 
lifestyle, hed not taken much notice  of the statements  or checked that payments were being 
made from his bank account. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Hs complaint. But she thought Scottish Widows had 
made a fair offer to put things right. She didnt think it was Scottish Widows  fault that the 
direct debit payments  hadnt actually been  collected, as its internal records showed that it 
had submitted the relevant instruction. And she thought that Mr H shouldve been  aware  that 
payments werent  being made,  which was shown on the statements Scottish Widows had 
sent him. She didnt think the letters about  the contribution amounts were enough for Mr H to 
assume that payments were being made.  So she didnt think Scottish Widows needed to do 
anything further  now.
As Mr H didnt  accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN29596812my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I agree that Scottish  Widows has done something  wrong  I think  its 
already made a fair offer to put things right  so Im not requiring  it to do anything  further. Ill 
explain why.
It seems  that both Mr H and Scottish Widows  did all that was required of them to arrange  for 
payments to be made by direct debit  to Mr Hs pension  back in November  2015.  
Scottish Widows  internal records show that the direct debit was created. And the details  of 
the instruction  were  confirmed in its letter to Mr H of 26 November 2015. So its not clear  to 
me why payments  werent  made. That might be an issue that Mr H wishes  to raise with his 
bank.
In any case, I dont think I need the detail of why the payments werent made to be able to 
decide this complaint. I say that because  irrespective of where the fault lied, I think it 
wouldve been reasonable for Scottish Widows  to let Mr H know  that the payments hadnt 
been collected and that it had cancelled the instruction as a result. And Scottish Widows 
accepts that. So the only issue for me to decide is what  fair compensation is for this error.
In this respect, I appreciate what Mr and Mrs H have said about missing  out on three years 
worth of contributions  to Mr Hs pension.  And theres some logic to their argument: if 
Scottish Widows  had done what it should have   in other words, if it had told Mr H that his 
direct debit payment  hadnt gone through back in December 2015  then the issue  couldve 
been rectified then,  and Mr H wouldnt have missed  a payment at all.
But I think its also fair to consider whether  Mr H had cause to question things any earlier  
than he did. Scottish Widows  says it sent him annual statements  each  year, and having 
reviewed copies of these I think they were enough  to have alerted him to the problem much 
sooner. The statements each have a summary section on the front page that sets out the 
payments made into the pension over the preceding 12 months.  This is clearly  and 
prominently detailed. The 2015/16 statement quotes £0.00 in this section, as does the 
2016/17 statement. The 2017/18 statement quotes  £58.94.
Given that these  amounts   particularly the zero figures  are so starkly different  from what 
Mr H wouldve expected  to see (the payments  were  to be £200 or more  each month,  totalling  
over £2,500 each  year),  I think  this ought  reasonably to have given him cause to question 
things back in 2015. 
And while I wouldnt necessarily expect Mr H to review his bank statements specifically to 
check that the pension payments hed instructed had been  made,  I think  its also reasonable 
to suggest that the absence of these  significant payments (of £200  or more) from his bank 
account to Scottish  Widows over such a long period ought also to have given him cause for 
concern. 
Im also mindful that by virtue of not making  the payments as intended, Mr H has continued 
to have the benefit of those funds.
Ref: DRN29596813Ive reviewed the other letters  that Mr H received from Scottish  Widows over the years in 
respect of the change  to the contribution amounts. These letters  were  sent when the 
contribution amounts were changed in line with increases in national average earnings. In 
and of themselves,  I can see how these  letters  couldve given Mr H the impression that 
everything was on track. But given  the other evidence  that payments werent being made as 
Ive referred to above, I dont think these letters are enough to have led Mr H to believe that 
payments were being made. Similarly, and while  I appreciate  what  Mr H has said about his 
lifestyle, I dont think I can say it was reasonable for him to disregard the statements he was 
receiving either.
So taking all of this into account, I dont think it would be fair to require Scottish Widows to 
make up, or contribute towards, the missed payments. Scottish  Widows has offered to 
backdate the missed  contributions if Mr H makes them up now  meaning he wouldnt be 
financially disadvantaged by this issue. I think thats fair.
Its right that Mr H is compensated  for the concern this matter has caused him. And I can see 
how hell have been very disappointed  to find out that the payments werent being made  
he shouldve  been told back in 2015 but only came to discover this himself. Scottish Widows 
has already offered Mr H £250, which I think is fair compensation for the upset he was 
caused by its error. As I understand Mr H has already cashed the cheque  for this payment, 
theres nothing further that Scottish  Widows needs  to do in this regard.
my final decision
Scottish Widows  Limited has already paid Mr H compensation  of £250 and offered to 
backdate the missing  contributions to his pension if theyre made up now,  which  I think is a 
fair way to settle  the complaint.
So my decision is that Scottish Widows Limited  should honour its offer to backdate any 
missing payments that Mr H wishes to make up now.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2959681