K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  wont  compensate her adequately 
for the problems she encountered in switching her account and making a payment.
background
Mrs L applied to switch  her current account  to Barclays in June  2018.  The switch  was 
confirmed by a letter which  included her new account details and Mrs L was asked to verify 
her identity in a branch to complete the process. But Mrs L then received a text message 
and a letter  to say the switch had been cancelled  so she contacted Barclays to complain  
about the conflicting information shed received.
Barclays explained what had happened and paid Mrs L £25 for the inconvenience shed 
sufferedwhich  she accepted. Mrs L then complained that her husband had received more 
compensation when he suffered a similar  inconvenience and asked for a further payment 
which Barclays declined to pay.
Mrs L then complained about problems shed had logging into the account to make a 
transfer payment.  Again  she said her husband had encountered similar difficulties with his 
account. She wanted the same level of compensation as hed received. Barclays  wouldnt 
pay any further compensation  as it said it was happy  with how it had dealt with the 
complaint. 
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and said, although the letter  and text 
might have caused confusion, Barclays had acted fairly in paying £25 for any inconvenience 
caused. But Mrs L said she should get more  compensation for the confusing  information 
shed been given. And her other  complaint point deserved some compensation too. As no 
resolution could  be found the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mrs L feels strongly that she should also get the same level of compensation as 
her husband. And I have  sympathy for her position which I can see she thinks is the bank 
being inconsistent. But I think Barclays has acted fairly here and doesnt need to do 
anymore. I know Mrs L will be disappointed by this outcome, so Id like to explain why. 
Ive carefully considered  the correspondence  between Mrs L and Barclays throughout the 
switching process. Im satisfied that in a number  of separate letters Barclays informed  Mrs L 
that the account switch was proceeding and it provided her with information  she would need 
going forward, such as her account  details, pin security details and a card reader. It also 
completed the switch  on the date it said it would. So, Im satisfied Barclays kept Mrs L 
updated and that she didnt suffer any financial loss.
On the other hand Ive seen the letter and text Barclays sent Mrs L to tell her the switch was 
cancelled. Barclays has said that was because it had to cancel the original application and 
then start a new application  when Mrs L hadnt given her debit card details. And I can 
understand why that happened  because the letter said if you have requested  to switch your 
account online your switch may have been  cancelled due to your switch  not being  verified  by 
Ref: DRN21152722one of our Barclays branches . So I think Barclays explained  what might have happened, 
which I think ought to have made Mrs L aware of the situation.
But I do see why the letter may have caused  confusion when positioned around the other  
letters the bank  sent, which all seemed to suggest  the switch was being processed. 
Particularly as Mrs L received the letter at the weekend, when she wasnt  able to speak with 
Barclays to clarify the position. I can see that would  have  added to her concern. So, I think  
Barclays was right to acknowledge there could have been confusion. But Im satisfied that 
the compensation it has paid Mrs L to recognise  this is fair and reasonable and reflects the 
fact that Mrs L would have suffered some inconvenience from receiving  a potentially 
conflicting text and letter, although the correct situation was confirmed  to her the day after 
she sent a message asking for clarification. 
I know Mrs L has said that her husband  received more compensation from Barclays  for the 
same problem butin  reviewing this complaint, I need to consider what impact these issues 
had on her and whether  what Barclays has paid fairly recognises  the impact. It doesnt come 
down to comparing what the bank paid another party.
Mrs L also complained  about logging on issues. And I can see she did have  an issue  
transferring money.  An error message appeared on her screen asking Mrs L to contact 
Barclays. She didnt phone Barclays, but in any event  it seems the issue was resolved  in so 
far as she was able to make the payment shortly  afterwards. Its not clear why there was an 
error message when  Mrs L tried to make  a payment but Im satisfied Barclays  gave  her the 
opportunity to contact  it to either  establish the problem and sort it out or to use an alternative 
way of transferring  her money. I appreciate the situation must  have  been  frustrating initially  
but I dont think  its material to warrant a payment of further compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint  against  Barclays Bank UK PLC in as 
much as I think  the payment its made is fair in the circumstances and I dont think it should 
pay anymore.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2115272