K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly increased her 
premium on her motor policy after it discovered a notification  only incident on her insurance  
record.
background
Mrs S applied for a policy with Admiral. She didnt disclose  an incident, which took place  
21 July 2017.  This was an incident  where Mrs S said another  car clipped her bumper  going  
over a speed bump. Both Mrs S and the other driver contacted  their insurers  but no claim 
was made  or paid by either insurer.
When Mrs S previous insurer gave the details of this incident to Admiral, Admiral  then 
increased her premium. Mrs S felt this was very unfair and complained.  Admiral  didnt  think  it 
had done anything wrong. Mrs S remained dissatisfied so she brought  her complaint to us.
The adjudicator also thought Admiral  hadnt done anything  wrong.  Mrs S didnt agree so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
There are two issues here, the first is that Mrs S said there was nowhere on Admirals on 
line application process or that of the aggregator website to disclose a notification  only 
incident. The second is that Mrs S is aggrieved her premium was nonetheless increased  due 
to such an incident  where there was no claim by either party.
First, I do think the websites  are clear enough  in requesting details of incidents. And its 
clear Mrs S did have an incident  where this other car clipped her bumper. I would  call this an 
accident. As her car and the other  drivers car clipped each other,  causing  each  car minor 
damage. So its clearly  an accident in the ordinary meaning of the word.  The website clearly 
says: 
What type of incident is it? 
Accident  Windscreen, Theft,  More.
I think its clear  enough for Mrs S to have clicked on the accident tab and registered  this 
incident as not her fault.
Mrs S rightly  informed her previous insurer of this and therefore it consequently forms part of 
her insurance record. Admiral is not saying that Mrs S deliberately  failed to disclose this. Its 
simply a fact this incident just wasnt disclosed.  Which is then why Mrs S premium then 
increased, after Admiral became aware of it. Its first quote to Mrs S didnt include the effect 
of this incident.
Insurers rate premiums on the applicants driving history.  All incidents whether the applicant 
was at fault or not matter  to most  insurers. Actuaries  including  those employed by Admiral 
Ref: DRN29985892use statistical analysis to determine the risk of a claim, depending on a huge range  of 
criteria, the most important being  previous claims and incidents  within  a set time period. 
Rates tend to increase  the more claims or incidences  an applicant has within the set time 
limit (regardless of fault) as statistically the chances  of another claim have then increased.
So once Admiral  were  aware of this incident, it re-rated Mrs S premium  and asked  her pay 
more. There is nothing  at all wrong  with Admiral  doing  this, its entitled to properly assess  a 
risk once all the information has been  disclosed to it. And here its shown us that this incident 
on Mrs S insurance record as detailed by her previous insurers,  then increased her 
premium. Its not Admirals fault Mrs S previous insurers  took so long to confirm Mrs S 
insurance record.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2998589