K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly  premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  in May 2001.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I wasnt intending on 
upholding Mrs Rs complaint. I asked everyone to send me any further  comments and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Mrs R nor FICL  responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont  uphold  Mrs Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20548682copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in May 2001.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
Mrs R bought  the PPI policy approximately one year after she took out the store card.  The policy was 
taken out to protect  her store card repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Mrs Rs complaint. 
FICL has told us that the PPI was sold to Mrs R during  a telephone  call approximately one year after 
Mrs R took out the store card. FICL says Mrs R would have been given a choice about the PPI. 
Unfortunately, FICL  hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call in which  the sale took place or 
a copy of the sales  script the lender would have used when selling the PPI to Mrs R. This isnt 
surprising given the sale took place over 18 years ago. As a result,  I dont know what  was said in the 
discussion between  Mrs R and the lender.
So, Ive had to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened at the time of sale.  
FICL has provided our service with a copy of Mrs Rs credit agreement. This shows Mrs R was given 
the option  of adding the PPI to her store card but didnt choose to take it out. Around a year later, 
FICL says the lender phoned Mrs R to sell her the PPI. And following that call, a policy was set up. As 
Mrs R had already  had use of her card for some time before the PPI was added to it, I think she would 
have known that she didnt  have to have PPI with her card  and I think  she would have realised that 
it had been added to her card. Overall, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs R agreed to take it out, 
knowing that she didnt  have to.
FICL says it didnt recommend that Mrs R take out the PPI. Mrs R on the other hand says it did. So 
Ive thought about what both parties have  said,  taking  into account  the available information  from the 
time of sale.  Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest  that FICL  assessed Mrs Rs 
circumstances at the time and recommended that Mrs R take out the PPI. This means  FICL didnt 
have to check  if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been  
particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Mrs R chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such as pre-existing 
medical conditions - so it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN20548683Mrs R has told us she would have  been  entitled to statutory sick pay if she was too unwell to work. 
Shes also told us that she had some savings, and could have relied on her friends, family and partner 
to help with her store  card repayments.
Having thought about what Mrs R has said about her sick pay and savings,  I dont think this means  
she wouldnt  have found the policy  useful. I say this because  the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to the statutory sick pay Mrs R would  have received. The PPI also would have paid a benefit  if Mrs R 
was ever made redundant and would  have enabled her to use her savings  for any other financial  
responsibilities she may have had.
Ive also thought  about  what Mrs R has said about the fact that she could  have relied  on her friends, 
family and partner to help her with her repayments. Again, I dont think this meant that the PPI wasnt 
useful for her. While  Mrs Rs friends, family and partner would want to help, their financial  situation 
could change  and so this help couldnt always be relied  on.
So overall, I think  Mrs R could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said  including what shes said about  her not being eligible 
for the policy due to an operation  she had in 1992. But these  points dont  change  my decision. Given 
what shes told us about the operation, I think its unlikely  that she would have thought  shed need to 
make a claim under  her policy. So I dont think that she would  have declined  the PPI, had she been  
told that she wasnt  covered for any claims  related  to the operation she had nine years before the PPI 
was taken  out.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2054868