K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about excessive tyre wear  on a car purchased with finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background 
In October  2017 Mr H was supplied  with a brand new car and entered  into a finance  
agreement with BMWFS.
Mr H noticed that the tyres on the car were wearing  down quickly. He had to replace them 
after he had covered only 5,800 miles. Mr H says hes owned the same model of car 
previously and covered  15,000 miles before he needed to replace the tyres. He says hes 
been told by a tyre specialist that its the car, not the tyres, which  are the problem. He 
arranged a wheel alignment which showed  that the tyres were  misaligned. Following 
realignment, Mr H still feels the replacement  tyres  are wearing very quickly.
Mr H complained to BMWFS. Hes concerned that hell have to change the tyres every 5000  
miles and wants to reject the car. BMWFS said there was no evidence of a fault. Mr H wasnt  
happy with the response  and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said there wasnt  enough evidence to confirm  that 
there was a fault but felt that a reasonable person wouldnt  expect to have to replace the 
tyres so soon after the point of supply. The investigator felt that a fair outcome would be for 
BMWFS to reimburse Mr H for the costs of the replacement tyres and the next set of tyres,  
and to pay compensation.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that on the basis that he would cover mileage of 25,000  over the 
term of the agreement he would have to replace  the tyres 4 or 5 times. He didnt think that 
being reimbursed  for only two sets of tyres was fair, on the basis  that he wouldve only 
changed the tyres once over the same mileage in his previous car. Mr H said he still wanted 
to reject the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an implied 
term that it is of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable,  taking into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. I would  expect a brand new car to be of a very high standard. However, there are 
some parts of a car which I would  expect to be susceptible to wear and tear, one of these 
parts being  tyres. So in order to uphold  this complaint I would need to be satisfied that there 
was a fault with the car at the point of supply which caused the tyres to wear prematurely.
Mr H has made the point that the tyres on his previous car didnt wear  so quickly.  I havent  
been provided with enough information to be certain  of whether Mr Hs previous car was 
exactly the same model, and whether  the tyres on his previous car were  of the same make 
and specification. Because of this Im unable  to carry out a direct comparison.
Ref: DRN28779962There are a number of factors which can affect wear  to tyres.  These  include,  amongst other  
things, road conditions, driving  style, speed,  load,  tyre pressure and alignment. There are no 
hard and fast rules  about how long tyres should  last because there are so many factors 
involved.
The distinguishing factor in this case is the fact that following an alignment, the alignment 
was found to be outside of tolerance  within a very short time. The mileage covered between 
alignments was only 200 miles. The job card shows that adjustments  were  also made to the 
camber and the steering  angle. This suggests that there is a problem which  may be causing 
the tyres  to wear more quickly. But I cant safely conclude that there is a fault which warrants  
a rejection of the car. Nor can I safely conclude that Mr H will have to replace his tyres every  
5000 miles going forward. It isnt possible to say that at this stage.
Based on everything  Ive seen, and whilst  as Ive said above,  I dont  think  theres enough  to 
suggest that theres a fault with the car which would warrant rejection, Im persuaded by the 
job cards  and Mr Hs testimony that theres  a problem with the alignment which has caused 
the tyres  to wear more quickly than they otherwise would. Because of this, I think  its 
reasonable to ask BMWFs to reimburse  Mr H for his first set of replacement  tyres and cover 
the costs of his next set. I think Mr H should  also receive some compensation for the 
inconvenience at having to return the car to the garage for alignment more  than once.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited must:
Reimburse Mr H for the costs of his first tyre replacement
Cover the costs of Mr Hs second  tyre replacement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2877996