K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that a car she acquired  via a Personal Contract Plan (PCP) with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In September  2016  Miss H acquired a nearly new car via a two year PCP with 
Mercedes- Benz. It was six months old and had a mileage of 6,700.
In September  2017  the car broke down due to a loss of oil and it was taken back  to the 
dealership. An inspection of the car showed that a turbo had collapsed  internally which 
had led to oil being sucked through the engine and pushed through  the exhaust. The 
dealership replaced  the DPF, turbo  and exhaust  system. The car was kept for a week  and 
Miss H was provided with a courtesy car. All the repairs were covered  by the warranty.
In November  2017 the engine management  light (EML) illuminated and Miss H booked the 
car in to the dealership for an investigation as to the cause. However, before the car went  
in the light went  off but Miss H asked  the dealership to check  the car for her peace  of mind. 
The car was kept overnight for diagnostic checks and the dealership also carried  out a 
service but the checks didnt reveal any faults.
Shortly after this visit to the dealership the EML illuminated again and the AdBlue 
warning light came on. The car was booked back in at the dealership  in December 2017. 
The dealership found that one of the NOX sensors  had failed. This was replaced under 
the warranty.
In January 2018 the EML illuminated for a third time. The dealership  investigated and 
found that there was an issue  with the boost  pressure  sensor.  This was replaced under the 
warranty and the dealership carried out a visual check  to ensure the car was fault free 
before being returned to Miss H. This check had revealed that there  was excessive 
movement in the lower  suspension arm and this was also replaced  under the warranty. 
Miss H complained to Mercedes-Benz about  the quality of the car and said she either 
wanted to be able to reject the car and have her payments  under  the agreement  
reimbursed or for the balloon payment that was due at the end of the agreement to be 
reduced.
Mercedes-Benz didnt  uphold Miss Hs complaint. It said that it had noted that Miss H had 
taken the car back to the dealership several  times but that the first time had been 12 
months after shed acquired the car. Mercedes-Benz said that due to the passage of time it 
was for Miss H to show the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
Mercedes-Benz said all the cars repairs had been  carried out under the warranty and that 
Miss H had been able to a complete a reasonable amount of mileage since shed acquired  
it. There was nothing  that suggested  the car had an inherent fault.
Miss H complained to this service. While her complaint was being  investigated  Miss H 
paid the balloon payment  at the end of the agreement and kept the car.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Miss Hs complaint should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN20138492Our adjudicator said listening to the call between Miss H and Mercedes Benz when the 
agreement was ending  that he thought Mercedes-Benz had been clear  about what  
options were open to Miss H. He said Mercedes-Benz had given her sufficient time to 
decide whether  she had wanted to purchase  the car or not.
Our adjudicator also said that looking at the issues that had arisen with the car there was 
no evidence that theyd  been recurring issues or that theyd been either present or 
developing at the point  of sale.
He said Miss H had been provided with a courtesy  car when the car had been  at the 
dealership being repaired. And that Miss H had driven the car for around 22,500 since  
shed acquired  it and over time it would be reasonable to expect the sensors  to need 
replacing. Our adjudicator said that he wouldnt ask Mercedes-Benz to do more.
Miss H disagreed with our adjudicators  view. She said that shed bought  the car at the end
of the agreement as if she hadnt  shed have  been  in breach of the contract. Miss H also 
said she didnt want another PCP and couldnt  afford to pay another  deposit amount  so had 
cleared the balloon payment. She said this had allowed her to keep the monthly payments
the same  and own the car at the end. Miss H said it wasnt fair to take into account the 
fact shed kept the car when deciding  if Mercedes-Benz  had acted  reasonably.
Miss H said she was still experiencing problems with the EML and there was no assurance 
the car would be reliable  in the future.  She said she thought that the numerous repairs 
would affect the price  when she sold it on. Miss H also said that the recurring problems with 
the car were a strong indicator that it wasnt  fit for purpose.
Miss H added  that no account had been taken of the time shed had to take off work taking 
the car to the dealership for repairs or of the stress dealing  with the issues had caused  
her. She said the amount of the balloon payment should be reduced.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  then complaint  was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (The Act) a car must be of satisfactory  quality at 
the point of sale. And satisfactory  quality was what a reasonable person would expect taking 
into account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition  and mileage of the car. 
Durability was also part of satisfactory quality  as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt  reasonably  expect issues to arise 
with the car for a period  of time. Here the car was nearly new with a low mileage.
If a car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale then the retailer  would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful  then the consumer would be able to reject the 
car. And where  a car was supplied under a finance agreement then its the finance 
company, in this case Mercedes-Benz,  who was responsible for dealing with the fault.
However as Miss H had had the car over six months  since  the inception of the financial 
agreement then the onus rested with her to show that the faults were either developing or 
present from the point  of sale.  Miss H said the number of repairs  the car had had to have 
were enough  to show that its inherently  faulty. She queried whether  the car had repairs 
before shed acquired it.
Id seen that Miss Hs car had had three sets of repairs  carried  out on it since  she acquired 
it. The first was after shed  had the car for 12 months and the car required a new turbo and 
Ref: DRN20138493repairs to its exhaust system. At that time the car was 18 months  old and had a mileage of 
just under 19,000. Id seen that the car wasnt the subject of repairs prior to its sale to Miss 
H.
I didnt think a reasonable person wouldve  expected a car of that age and mileage to 
have required that type of repair  so soon. I thought it would be reasonable to expect that 
those parts would have  lasted longer than they had. This meant that it was reasonable to 
think the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of sale. However, Id seen that the 
car was repaired under  its warranty and returned  to Miss H. Id no evidence  that this 
problem had arisen again.
The car had to have  further repairs in December  2017 and January 2018  for issues with 
various sensors. I didnt  have any evidence that these issues were  linked  to the first or 
subsequent repairs  and again they appeared to have  all been repaired. However, again, I 
thought a reasonable person would query the durability of these parts
Miss H said that was she was still having problems with the car and Id seen that a clean 
air line was replaced  in February 2019.  But by the time of this repair the car had a 
mileage of 35,000.  I thought that now the car was around three years old with an 
average mileage that repairs  to components through wear and tear were  more likely so I 
didnt think a reasonable person would consider  this repair unusual. Id seen  that prior to 
this repair  Miss H had been able to use the car free from mechanical issues for around a 
year.
So I was satisfied on the evidence that the car had had faults which meant  that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale, However, this didnt mean that Miss H automatically 
had the right to reject  the car. Each time a new fault arose it was repaired at no cost to Miss
H and I didnt  have any evidence that those  repairs werent successful.
I was also satisfied that Miss H was provided  with a courtesy car each time the car was 
repaired so I didnt  think it was reasonable for her to be reimbursed payments under the 
agreement. Id also seen shed had reasonably  usage of the car. But I did think 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused to her over the cars  faults  was 
reasonable.
Miss H has given an explanation about her decision to clear the balloon payment and said 
she had now lost faith in the car. Shed also raised concerns that the cars  value  would be 
affected by the repairs. But I thought it was fair I took into account that she had decided to 
keep the car. I thought Mercedes-Benz had been clear with Miss H about her options and 
shed made  an informed choice about keeping it. I couldnt reasonably say Miss H had no 
option but to pay the balloon payment. 
Taking account of the evidence  and the impact  on Miss H I didnt think that the repairs  
alone (although incurring  no cost to Miss H) were a sufficient remedy for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to her by repeatedly having  to take the car back to the dealership.  
But I also didnt think the problems Miss H had had with the car justified  her being able to 
now reject  it or for a substantial reduction  on the balloon payment to be applied. I thought  
that £300  compensation would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And so I was 
intending to partially uphold  Miss Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN20138494Mercedes-Benz didnt  agree with my provisional view. It said that job cards prepared  before 
the car had been sold to Miss H showed that there was no inherent  fault with the car. 
Mercedes-Benz provided these cards as evidence and said it was unfair it should pay Miss 
H compensation.
Miss H says she agrees  with my provisional decision and has nothing else to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the job cards  show  that the car didnt  have any repairs  for faults linked to the 
subsequent issues  that arose after Miss H acquired  it, but this hasnt changed  my view.  I had 
accepted this was the position  in my provisional decision.
I still dont think the car was of satisfactory  quality. Looking at the number and type of repairs 
that the car had required and taking account  of its age and mileage I didnt  think  a 
reasonable person wouldve considered the car was as durable as would reasonably  be 
expected.
I also havent changed my view that it would be unreasonable for Miss H to now reject the 
car as its been fully repaired under  the warranty. And under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
if a car isnt of satisfactory quality then the retailer has an opportunity to put this right.
However I do still think that Miss H has suffered distress and inconvenience having  the car 
breakdown and need repairs.  I think £300 compensation as set out above  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. Im asking 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  to pay Miss H £300  compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the car requiring repairs when it had.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2013849