K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that he was mis-sold a Mortgage  Protection Plan term assurance policy  by 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
background
In 1996 Mr F took out a 10 year, £30,000  decreasing term assurance  policy  covering his own 
life against a £90,000 commercial mortgage  with HSBC. It appears the remainder of the 
mortgage was covered  by similar policies for his business partners. The policy remained in 
place until the end of its term in 2006. 
Mr F made a complaint about the policy in May 2018. He felt it had been unnecessary  and 
unsuitable, primarily on the basis that in the event of his death the mortgage debt wouldve 
been protected in a number of different  ways   by his business  partners,  the equity in the 
property and his personal financial situation.  
HSBC explained  that in 1996 it would generally  have  been a condition  of its commercial 
lending that life cover be put in place, and that was supported in this case  by information 
recorded in the policy application  form. HSBC was therefore satisfied that the policy hadnt 
been mis-sold. It did, however, offer Mr F £150 for its mishandling of the complaint.    
Mr F didnt  accept HSBCs position  and referred the complaint to this service, where our 
adjudicator reached  the same conclusion as HSBC. 
Mr F remained of the view that the policy was mis-sold, reiterating  that it had been 
unnecessary, unreasonable and unduly  onerous.  He highlighted again that HSBCs position 
wouldve been protected in any event by the alternative financial arrangements  in place. And 
he noted that, while it may have been  common practice for lenders to require this sort of 
cover at the time, it didnt mean the practice  was fair.  
Mr F also questioned whether the policy had ever been assigned to HSBC, pointing out that 
if it hadnt, the proceeds of any claim wouldve have fallen to his estate  rather  than the bank 
 negating its purpose.  He also contested the adjudicators  view that he couldve looked 
elsewhere for the borrowing  if hed not been happy  with the conditions,  as thered been  a 
long-standing relationship  between the other business partners and HSBC. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted,  its common practice  for lenders to impose a requirement  that commercial  
borrowing be protected by some  sort of life cover for the parties critical to the associated 
business arrangement. In fact, back in 1996  lenders  would most likely have placed a similar  
requirement even  upon  residential  lending. 
I note what Mr F says about common practice  not necessarily equalling fairness. And that 
the policy was unnecessary  because of the alternative methods of protection in place  
equity, support of the other  partners, etc. 
Ref: DRN21233862But while with hindsight it may be clear there was little risk involved in the arrangement, at 
the outset of the lending  there would  have been a high degree of uncertainty  from the 
lenders point of view  the volatility of property  prices and the economy in general; the 
viability of the business involved; the potential breakdown of crucial  relationships.  
So I dont  think it can be said that it was unreasonable or unfair for HSBC  to do as it and 
other commercial lenders  did and make life cover a condition of lending. And I dont think 
doing so was unduly onerous.  Taking  out the policy committed Mr F to monthly  premiums  of 
just over £10 per month  and Ive not seen that this presented any affordability issues  for him.
And while I appreciate  what  Mr F has said about the existing business relationship between 
his partners and HSBC, if ultimately the conditions of the proposed lending  were  seen as 
simply too onerous or unreasonable, while it might not have been an easy option,  an 
alternative lender  could  still have been  sought.  But, importantly, it would almost certainly 
have been the case that another  lender wouldve had exactly the same requirements as 
HSBC in respect of life cover.  
On the point concerning the possibility  that the policy wasnt assigned to HSBC, meaning 
that any payment  of claim wouldve fallen into Mr Fs estate  rather  than to HSBC,  the length  
of time since  the end of the arrangement means that there is no way to confirm the situation.
But in any event I dont  think  that would be reason alone to uphold the complaint. With the 
policy long since ended  its a hypothetical  situation. And any problems related to it wouldve 
been dealt with at the time,  had an issue arisen.  
So, in summary,  Im satisfied HSBC  acted fairly  and reasonably in requiring the policy  and 
Im not of the view that it was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
James Harris  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2123386