K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC made errors  in providing information  to her debt 
management company  with the result that she made  payments to two debts instead of to 
just one.
background
I should say at the outset that Lloyds  has raised  jurisdiction issues about this case, which 
have been considered by a colleague  ombudsman.  She found  the case  to be in jurisdiction 
and therefore  one this service  could consider on its merits. And although Lloyds has 
subsequently continued to raise  jurisdiction points I can confirm that that matter has been 
decided and I shall not be revisiting it.
In 2006 Mrs F had two outstanding balances with Lloyds (an overdraft and a personal loan) 
that it transferred  as a consolidated debt to its recoveries department.  Mrs F had a number 
of other  debts and was working with a debt management company (DMC).  The DMC says it 
received two balances from Lloyds  the consolidated balance and the overdraft. Mrs F 
thereafter made payments to Lloyds, via her DMC, to both balances. But as the overdraft 
was already included in the consolidated balance, she was effectively paying  a non-existent 
debt. 
In November 2013 Lloyds sold Mrs Fs debts to a debt collection company (DCC), and from 
that point her DMC made payments to that company instead of to Lloyds.
Mrs F says she became aware that she had been  paying a non-existent debt in 2016 and 
she complained  to Lloyds.
Lloyds provided  a detailed explanation of what had happened to Mrs Fs debts over the 
years since  the transfer to its recoveries department. It stated the balances on Mrs Fs two 
accounts at the time of that transfer  and at the time of the subsequent sale to the DCC. It 
said that the reason that the consolidated balance was separated back into two separate  
balances when it sold them to the DCC was that this was a condition of the sale.
Lloyds confirmed that all of Mrs Fs repayments  had been correctly credited to her 
consolidated balance. And it also said that the initial involvement of Mrs Fs DMC with Lloyds  
had taken place  too long ago now for the bank to confirm what information it had passed to 
the DMC  about her debts. But Lloyds didnt believe it had mistakenly told the DMC that Mrs 
F should  be repaying  two balances. 
But Lloyds paid Mrs F £40 compensation for the confusion that had been caused.
Mrs F was dissatisfied with Lloyds response  and so she brought her complaint to us. In 
summary she held Lloyds responsible for passing  incorrect information to her DMC, which  
had resulted in her making payments to a non-existent debt. And she wanted the bank to 
refund those unnecessary payments.
Our investigator looked in detail at the repayments  made by Mrs F from 2006, the date that 
Lloyds had transferred  her consolidated  balance to its recoveries department. And he 
concluded that they had all been  correctly reflected in Mrs Fs balances, which Lloyds then 
sold on to the DCC in 2013. 
Ref: DRN28461722Our investigator confirmed that the only incorrect record  of the balances  appeared to be that 
held by the DMC. He noted that Lloyds had consolidated Mrs Fs two debts in December 
2006. And on 29 January 2007  the DMC had written  to the bank confirming the two balances  
it held for Mrs F, one being the consolidated debt and the other being the overdraft. In its 
letter the DMC referred to the latter as a duplicate balance. Our investigator therefore  
considered that it was more likely than not that Lloyds had incorrectly provided the DMC with 
these two balances.  And if the details provided in the DMCs letter of 29 January 2007 hadnt 
matched those held by Lloyds, he would have expected the bank to have corrected the 
DMC.
Having considered that it was in all probability  the banks fault that Mrs F had been repaying 
a non-existent debt,  our investigator then considered her request for a refund of these 
payments. But he said that the payments had gone  to repaying her overall debt. And 
considering that Mrs F had 13 other  creditors at the time, his view was that if she hadnt 
been paying the non-existent debt,  that money would most likely have been  split between 
these other  creditors or been allocated to an alternative debt.
But his view was that Lloyds should  pay Mrs F an additional £150 for the worry and upset 
shed been caused when  she discovered that shed  been paying a non-existent  debt for 
some years.
In line with our normal  practice the investigator sent his view on the complaint to Mrs F and 
to Lloyds asking  for comments by a specific date. Recognising that Lloyds  remained 
unhappy that we were  even considering the complaint he said that if he didnt hear from the 
bank he would assume it wanted  an ombudsmans  decision on the merits  of the case.  Lloyds 
didnt reply, and so the complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence Mrs F is complaining that for a number of years  she made repayments to Lloyds 
for a non-existent debt and she wants the money  to be refunded.
Lloyds states  as a fact that in December  2006 when it transferred Mrs Fs two debts to its 
recoveries department it did so as a single consolidated debt. It has more recently said that 
recoveries staff would only have been able to see one consolidated  balance from 2007 
(although I note Lloyds  hasnt  said when  in 2007), and so anyone  calling about Mrs Fs 
debts, in particular  her DMC, would  only have been able to discuss  a single figure. But the 
fact remains that in a letter of 29 January 2007 from the DMC to Lloyds proposing 
repayments towards Mrs Fs debts the DMC set out details (account name, account number, 
reference number,  amount  and offered repayment)  for both the consolidated debt and the 
overdraft. And from that point Mrs F made  repayments to both the consolidated debt and the 
non-existent separate overdraft.
This was all a long time ago now and there is little hard evidence  to shed light on how this 
error arose. Both Lloyds and the DMC assert that they were not responsible for the DMCs  
records being wrong. But it is my view that it was primarily Lloyds responsibility to ensure 
that the figures on which it and the DMC  were working were correct. Lloyds was the debt 
owner and it had the authority to agree, or not, the DMCs proposed repayments. But it 
agreed repayments towards a debt it was not owed, and then accepted those repayments 
Ref: DRN28461723for a number of years. As the organisation holding the definitive  information about Mrs Fs 
debts I would have  expected Lloyds  to have checked the details in the DMCs letter before 
agreeing a repayment arrangement. If it had done so, it would have realised that a mistake 
had occurred somewhere along the line, and it should  have  informed the DMC. In my 
judgment it is therefore entirely reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible for the incorrect  
records held by the DMC, and consequently  for the fact that Mrs F made repayments to the 
bank for a number of years for a debt she did not owe.
Mrs F would like Lloyds to refund  these  overpayments, but I do not agree that it should do 
so. All of Mrs Fs payments to Lloyds  were used to reduce  her outstanding debt with the 
result that she will repay that debt rather sooner  than she might otherwise have done. And 
Mrs F had many  other  debts that she was repaying with the help of the DMC. Mrs F will 
know that the way the debt repayment system  works is that the DMC calculates the money 
she has available to repay her debts  after allowing for her essential outgoings and living  
costs. It then allocates this remaining sum across Mrs Fs creditors  and agrees repayments  
with them.  It is therefore very likely in my view that if Mrs F had been paying less to Lloyds 
this would merely have  resulted in her paying  more to some of her other creditors  rather than 
to her  retaining that money herself. Mrs F has not suffered a financial loss as a result  of 
repaying more than she need  have  done  to Lloyds  for a number of years.
But I recognise the very significant worry and distress caused to Mrs F when she discovered 
that she had been repaying  a non-existent debt, and her concern that that money might 
somehow have been lost and not properly accounted for by the bank. It is my view that in 
not verifying the information contained in the DMCs  letter of 29 January 2007, and 
consequently accepting repayments for a debt it was not owed, Lloyds should reasonably be 
held responsible for the subsequent distress caused to Mrs F. I know  Lloyds has already 
paid Mrs F £40, but I judge it should  now make an additional payment to her of £150 as fair 
and reasonable compensation for the distress  and inconvenience it has caused her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and in settlement require Lloyds  Bank PLC 
to pay Mrs F an additional £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2846172