K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains that a car supplied by Lex Autolease Limited (Lex) under a hire agreement 
was of unsatisfactory quality. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 9 March 2020.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this forms 
part of my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  what  Id decided  about this complaint and what I 
intended to do  subject to any further  submissions received  from the parties by 23 March 
2020. Both Lex and Miss R responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.  Lex 
asked our investigator to clarify one or two things relating  to the date of the last breakdown  
and the return  of the car. Our investigator has been  in touch with both parties and I 
understand these  issues  have  now been resolved. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In view of the responses received from the parties  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional conclusions.  
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I require Lex Autolease Limited  to
 
1.end the hire agreement and take the car back (if it has not done  so already), both at 
no cost to Miss R;
2.refund  the advance  payment of £2,080.38  pro-rata from the date of the last 
breakdown;
3.refund  15% of all rental payments made  under the hire agreement up to the date of 
the last breakdown and refund 100%  of all rental payments made after that, if Miss R 
was not provided  with a courtesy car;
4.pay interest on the above  refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement;
5.waive end of contract charges applied for a dent and missing  key;
6.pay Miss R £800 compensation for distress and inconvenience; and 
7.remove any adverse information  recorded  about payments due after the last 
breakdown from Miss Rs credit file.  
If Lex considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss R how much  its taken  off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN23276502Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN23276503copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss R complains  that a car supplied by Lex Autolease Limited (Lex)  under  a hire agreement  was of 
unsatisfactory quality. 
background 
Miss R leased  this car from Lex in June 2016. She made an upfront  payment of just over £2,000 
(according to the hire agreement)  and she agreed to pay about £350 a month for hire over three 
years. Miss R had problems with the car within  the first year and took it back to the supplying 
dealership for repairs.  A new diesel  particulate filter (DPF) was fitted  near the end of July 2017 and 
the car had to go back for more work in December  2017. Miss R contacted  Lex and it said the issues 
were due to the way she was driving the vehicle. In January 2018 the car broke down again and a 
breakdown service told Miss R that the DPF regeneration  had failed. Another  new DPF was fitted and 
Miss R complained  to Lex again.  The dealer checked the car and said the computer showed that Miss 
R was carrying out the DPF renewal procedure  when requested. She relayed this information to Lex 
but it did not take matters any further.
In September 2018 another warning light appeared as the exhaust filter was full. A breakdown  service  
said the car had failed  to perform a DPF regeneration again so Miss R got in touch with Lex but it 
wouldnt allow  her to reject  the car. The car went back  to the dealer in November 2018 for more  work 
and Miss R thought this was an unacceptable. She contacted Lex and it accepted the vehicle  had 
three DPFs, two head  gaskets and two EGR valves replaced under warranty and acknowledged  
these were faults. A month later Lex agreed to take the car back  and end the hire agreement  without 
any termination  fees. Miss R needed some time to source a new vehicle and Lex agreed that she 
didnt have to return the car straightaway. 
The car broke down again early in 2019 while it was still in Miss Rs possession.  The dealer said this 
breakdown was due to Miss Rs use of the car and repairs would  cost £2,000.  Lex didnt think  it 
should have to pay for those repairs but Miss R felt that was unfair as Lex had agreed she could 
reject the car due to its underlying issues. Lex reconsidered and, having accepted the car was not 
supplied in a satisfactory condition, it offered to:- 
take the car back and end the hire agreement with no termination fees;
pay Miss R £800  compensation  for inconvenience  due to repeated  breakdowns and repairs;
refund the equivalent  of 15% of the rentals paid to date to reflect Miss Rs impaired use 
(including being provided with different  specification courtesy vehicles);
waive over £300 end of contract damage charges  for a dent and missing  key, and
refund the unused  portion of Miss Rs initial rental  pro-rata,  plus interest. 
One of our investigators looked at Miss Rs complaint. He thinks  the offer Lex has made  now sounds 
reasonable overall. He understands Miss R would like to have more payments refunded as she feels  
Lex should have agreed she could  reject the car much sooner. But, he says it is fair that Miss R 
should pay for the use she had of the car and hes not persuaded  it would be reasonable  to ask Lex to 
do more  than it has offered. 
Miss R doesnt  agree.  She says (in summary)  she was supplied with a faulty car and forced to keep 
driving it for two years  despite  multiple  complaints and repairs. She thinks Lex should have supplied a 
replacement that was fit for purpose or allowed her to reject  the car and cancel the hire agreement  
without charge after the second unsuccessful repair  attempt in 2017. She says it is wrong that Lex 
can lease faulty goods for as long as this and then just offer a relatively small  sum in compensation. 
She asked  for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN23276504Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or 
contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what  I consider is most likely  to have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
The details of this matter are well known  to the parties  so Im not going to repeat everything thats 
happened here. Lex accepts the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. And it has 
agreed to take the car back and cancel the hire agreement without any termination  charges. I am 
satisfied Lex has also acknowledged that Miss R experienced impaired use and distress and 
inconvenience - in view of the multiple  breakdowns  and repeated repair attempts - and it agrees  she 
should have received better service. 
Given the problems that Miss R had with this new vehicle fairly early on in the hire agreement, I think  
it is reasonable  that she should be allowed to reject the car. I cant hold Lex responsible for any poor 
customer service  Miss R received from the dealer. But, from the evidence that I have seen so far, I 
am satisfied  that she experienced significant distress and inconvenience as a result of being  provided 
with this faulty  car. I think Lex accepts that - as it has offered to pay Miss R £800 compensation. I 
realise Miss R feels she should be paid more, in light of everything she has been through. But, I 
consider £800 seems  reasonable overall. And I find Lexs offer to waive end of contract  charges (of 
about £300 for a dent and missing key) seems fair as well. 
Lex has also offered to refund 15% of each  monthly rental to reflect Miss Rs impaired use. I 
understand Miss R feels  Lex should have accepted the car was inherently  faulty much earlier. And I 
appreciate shed like a full refund of the rentals paid after the second repair attempt. Working out 
whats fair in this sort of situation is not an exact science. But, Im satisfied that Miss R was generally 
offered a courtesy car and kept mobile  when her car was off the road for repairs - and she was able to 
use her car in between those repairs. Im not persuaded  it would  be fair for Miss R to pay nothing  for 
the use shes  had of the car. And I think a refund  of 15% of each monthly  rental payment  made 
sounds about  right, in these particular circumstances. 
It looks as if Miss R was unable to use the car after the last breakdown, in early 2019. I cant see that 
she was provided with a courtesy car during this time. I dont think  it is fair for Miss R to have to pay 
for a car that she couldnt drive. And, I am minded to find Lex should  refund any made rental  
payments after the last breakdown in full (provided  Miss R was not offered a courtesy vehicle).   
Lex has already agreed to refund some  of the un-used  portion of Miss Rs first rental payment, plus 
interest. If I understand  Lex correctly, I think its referring to the advance payment in the hire 
agreement of just over £2,000. As far as I can see, this was a payment that Miss R made  at the outset 
which served to reduce  the amount she had to pay each  month  to hire the car. For the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont  think Miss R should have to meet the monthly payments  due from the date of 
the last breakdown. So, I am minded to find it is fair for Lex to refund the advance  payment pro-rata  
from that date as well. 
I consider Lex should pay interest  on all of the refunds referred to above at 8% simple a year from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. It looks as if Miss R stopped making  her monthly  payments  
due to ongoing faults. I am not aware  of any adverse reporting on her credit file but, if Lex has 
recorded any related adverse information, I think it would be fair and reasonable  to remove that. 
I now invite  both parties to consider my provisional  findings  and let me have any further submissions, 
if they want to, by the date below. After that I will consider all of the available  evidence  and make my 
final decision.  
my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN23276505Subject to any further information that I may receive from the parties  by 23 March 2020,  my 
provisional decision  is I intend  to uphold this complaint.  For the reasons Ive given, I am currently 
minded to require Lex Autolease Limited  to
 
1end the hire agreement and take the car back (if it has not done so already),  both at no cost 
to Miss R;
2refund the advance  payment of £2,080.38 pro-rata from the date of the last breakdown;
3refund 15% of all rental  payments made under  the hire agreement up to the date of the last 
breakdown and refund  100% of all rental payments made after that, if Miss R was not 
provided with a courtesy car;
4pay interest on the above refunds  at 8% simple a year from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
5waive end of contract charges applied for a dent and missing key;
6pay Miss R £800  compensation  for distress and inconvenience; and 
7remove any adverse  information recorded about payments due after the last breakdown from 
Miss Rs credit file.  
Ref: DRN2327650