K822xcomplaint
Mr M and Mrs M are unhappy with Barclays  Bank UK PLC ('Barclays'), because they say
Barclays made errors when processing  an international payment for Mr M  and this meant
they lost out on an opportunity to invest in some gold. They're also unhappy with the service
they received  when  they went into a Barclays branch.
The account  in question is joint  held with Mrs M. But I've referred to just Mr M throughout
my decision  for simplicity, as Mr M has driven the complaint and is the account  holder mainly
involved in what happened.
background
In September  2017, Mr M visited a Barclays branch to make  an international transfer of
around $20,000 from his joint UK account  to one he held overseas  where he intended  to 
use these funds to buy gold as an investment. But the transfer failed twice.
Mr M says he's unhappy with the customer service he received  and says he's lost £1,800  
in profit,  as the opportunity to buy the gold fell through because of Barclays  mistakes  and 
the delay completing  the transfer.
Barclays agreed there were issues verifying the original  transfer  and they couldn't see any 
evidence they tried to contact Mr M about  this  so they offered him £50 compensation. But 
they said they couldn't compensate him for his lost investment opportunity. So, Mr M brought  
his complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 October  2019  and upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part.
In my provisional decision,  I said:
-I did think Barclays were responsible for Mr Ms transfer failing and could see the 
bank had accepted this.
-I didnt think Mr M had lost out because  of any exchange rate movements between  
the time the original transfer  should  have been  made  and when it finally  completed.
-As Mr M left the money in his overseas account,  I didnt have to consider any losses 
caused through reversing the transfer. 
-I thought Mr M did have an investment opportunity lined up which hed missed  out on 
because of the transfer delays. But I didnt think I could say hed lost out on a 
potential profit of £1,800, as it was an investment that went  up and down in value. 
So, any profit or loss would be dependent on the value  when Mr M bought  the gold 
and when he later decided to sell it. And there  was no evidence to show  if or when he 
mightve sold it.
-The paperwork Mr M supplied suggested he was only going to invest part of the 
transferred amount   so I didnt think this was his main reason for making the 
transfer.
-This loss of investment opportunity had caused  Mr M some  distress  and 
inconvenience and I thought Barclays should  pay him £250  compensation.
Barclays accepted  my provisional findings.  But Mr M did not and put forward a number of 
points in response  he said:
Ref: DRN23350842-In the country  where he planned to buy the gold, the price is split between labour and 
actual gold costs.
-Theres an error in the translation  on the invoice  for the gold, as the amount 
mentioned only refers to the cost of the labour not the gold itself  and he says he 
wasnt going to pay any labour  costs  as part of this opportunity. 
-This labour cost wouldve  been around £1,800   so its this saving hes lost out on 
when the transfer  was delayed  and the gold was sold to another  party.
-He was going to use all the money  he transferred to buy gold.
my findings
I've reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what's fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think Mr Ms 
complaint should  only be upheld in part. I know hes likely to be disappointed by my decision 
 but Ive explained why I dont think his further comments make a difference below.
After carefully thinking about the additional points Mr R made,  I had the translation re-
evaluated by an independent third party  and theyve been  able to translate some of the 
document that was previously marked illegible.
I think its important to state here that a translation  should be taken as an interpretation of 
the original  and not everything in this translation is clear regarding  the terms of Mr Rs 
investment opportunity.
This new translation supports Mr Ms assertion that the £1,800 I mentioned  in my provisional  
decision relates only to the cost of labour. But, contrary to what Mr M says, the translation 
doesnt say this cost was being waived. Mr M has since  said that theres  an error in the 
wording of the original  document  which is why the translation doesnt correctly  reflect  the 
terms of the agreement either.
But I have to rely on the evidence thats  available  and this evidence  includes a figure for 
the cost of the labour.  And Ive seen  no evidence to suggest Mr M wouldnt have had to pay 
it.
Mr M has said hed be willing to discuss this with the translator. But this wouldnt make a 
difference, as hes no longer disputing the translation  hes saying the original document  is 
incorrect. And as Ive said, I need  to rely on the evidence that is available.
I appreciate Mr M says he was going  to use all the money he transferred to buy gold, but its 
now clear that the evidence he supplied only refers to the cost of the labour. So, the actual 
price of the gold itself hasnt been shown.  But even  if Mr R was going to use all of the 
transferred funds to buy gold, for the reasons already given, I cant  know  if he wouldve 
made a profit or a loss if and when hed sold on the gold.
Overall, while  not all the details of Mr Rs investment opportunity are clear,  I do think its 
clear enough  that he has missed out on this opportunity  and had to spend extra  time sorting  
out the problems with the transfer all of which  resulted  from the banks mistakes.   Hes 
suffered disappointment  and inconvenience  because of this. So, Im still upholding part of 
this complaint.
Its not clear if Barclays paid Mr M the initial £50 they offered. But they need to pay Mr M 
£250 compensation in total to put things right.
Ref: DRN23350843my final decision
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint  and Barclays Bank  UK PLC 
should follow what Ive set out above to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Guy Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2335084