K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card. Financial Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) has accepted responsibility for this 
complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as the seller to keep  things simple. 
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her the PPI policy on her store card.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs B took out in 1994. The 
policy was sold to her by phone in 1996,  around two years after she applied  for the card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and I set out my reasons for doing  so below. 
FICL says Mrs B took the PPI over the phone.  And I can see from FICLs records that the 
policy was added to Mrs Bs account  around two years after she took out the store  card, so I 
think thats probably right. Given how long ago this policy was sold,  we dont have any 
information about exactly what was said to Mrs B when  she took out the PPI. But Ive not 
seen anything that makes  me think FICL didnt make it clear  the PPI was optional.  And as 
the PPI was sold to Mrs B after she applied for the store card, I think she would have  
understood it wasnt a compulsory  part of the account. So I think  its more likely that she 
chose to take the PPI knowing she didnt have to  although I can understand why she might  
not remember that now. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B. So it didnt have to check  it was right for her. But it 
did have to give her enough  clear  information so she could decide if she wanted to take it. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what I know about her circumstances it looks  like the policy couldve 
been useful to her. Mrs B told us she would  have got over 6 months pay if she was too ill to 
work. But the PPI could  have paid out potentially for longer than her full sick pay would have 
lasted. It also would  have  covered her if she had become unemployed.
With all of this in mind, I still think she couldve found the policy  to be useful, and I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her buying  it. 
So while Ive thought carefully about everything  Mrs B has said,  for the reasons explained 
above her points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN29029782Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  19 August 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902978