K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged her £259.35 when she used her 
credit card to pay off a car loan. 
background
Mrs H has a Tesco credit  card. In April 2018  Tesco  sent Mrs H a notice of variation 
explaining that the terms of her credit card were due to change. As part of the notice of 
variation Tesco introduced  a term that said it would charge a 3.99% handling fee if the 
customer uses the credit card to repay borrowing. 
In October  2018 Mrs H called Tesco and has said she arranged for her credit limit to be 
increased. She also transferred £7,000 to her credit  card with the intention of using the funds 
to repay  her car finance. 
Mrs H says when she spoke to Tesco she was told paying funds onto the credit  card to bring 
it into a positive balance  wasnt  allowed.  Mrs H went on to use her credit card to repay  the 
car finance and Tesco  applied a fee of £259.35  to her credit  card.  
Mrs H complained as she felt the charge  was unfair,  especially as she was using funds  shed 
paid onto the credit card to repay her car loan. But Tesco said the terms of the account 
meant the charge was correct so didnt agree to refund it. 
Mrs H went on to refer her complaint  to this service and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened but didnt ask Tesco to refund  the charge. The adjudicator  thought Tesco  had 
applied the charge correctly so didnt uphold Mrs Hs complaint. As she remains  unhappy 
Mrs Hs complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mrs H is upset at being  charged  the 3.99%  handling fee. I dont doubt she 
wasnt aware that using  the credit card to repay  her car loan would mean  shed have to pay 
a fee. But I need to be fair to both sides. And I can normally only uphold a complaint if Ive 
found a business has made a mistake thats  led to a loss for the customer. 
In this case, Tescos  terms and conditions are clear. The notice of variation that was sent 
and emailed to Mrs H in April 2018  explains under what circumstances the 3.99% handling 
fee will apply. Im satisfied the notice  of variation is clear  and was sent to Mrs H. 
The terms say that using the credit  card to repay other borrowing will mean  a 3.99% handing  
fee will apply. As Tescos acted in line with the account terms Ive not found it made a 
mistake here. 
Mrs Hs case is unusual as shed transferred £7,000 to her account in advance of her 
payment. And I understand  her argument  that she was effectively using her own money  to 
repay the car loan. But Mrs H was using her Tesco credit card to repay the car loan. Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mrs H but as she used the Tesco credit card to make the repayment 
Ref: DRN26889392shes bound  by its terms. That means  the 3.99% handling fee was correctly  applied by 
Tesco. 
As Ive not found Tesco made  an error, Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  
this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2688939