K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited made him a loan which was 
unaffordable. He wants to return the vehicle  and unwind the loan.
background
Mr S tells us in April 2016 he took out a Personal Contract Purchase loan - a form of hire 
purchase - with BMW. He says hed at first been refused finance but about a week later was 
offered the agreement  - with a higher monthly  repayment figure. He says hes been 
struggling to meet the payments from an early stage.
BMW told us it doesnt think  its reasonable to expect it or the retailer to offer financial advice 
to a customer about whether he can afford  the repayments. It said the decision was based 
on Mr Ss credit rating.  It felt the loan was affordable. And it had no knowledge of an earlier 
failed application.
The investigator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She said with such  a high 
value loan shed  have expected BMW  to do more than a credit  check.  And if it had it would 
have seen he was permanently overdrawn in the three month period leading up to the loan. 
And that in only one of those months would he have had enough disposable income to make 
the payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mr S is experiencing financial difficulties. This is never  an easy  situation  to 
deal with.
Ill first explain our approach to complaints about  unaffordable lending. Its important to 
understand that the decision about  whether  a loan is - or is not - affordable  is based on the 
circumstances at the time the loan was made.  So a later change  in circumstances wont 
affect that decision - although it may impact  on a customers ability to repay the loan.
A lender is required to make adequate checks prior to making a loan. Theres  no set list of 
checks a business  is required to make - its up to each business  to decide what  it needs. But 
it is required to make checks which  are sufficient and proportionate taking into account  
factors including, but not limited to, the amount of the loan and the size of repayments.  And 
where evidence  is incomplete - as some of it is here - Im required to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. 
There is very little evidence as to the checks which were made before this loan was granted. 
Im aware BMW  has undergone a change in its administration  and some  of the relevant 
information is no longer available.  It appears  the checks  carried  out at the time were  limited 
to credit file data along with some very basic information supplied by Mr S. This simply 
records that he was in full-time employment and shows details of his living arrangements. 
Theres no evidence of salary or other living expenses. Despite this BMW says it had 
enough to say the monthly payments were affordable. 
Ref: DRN25690152Im in agreement with the investigator in thinking  that for a loan of this amount  (over £40,000 
repayable over a four year period) more than credit  file checks were required. And I express 
some surprise that BMW  does not think it needed an income  and expenditure check. Ive 
already said its up to a business to decide what information it needs - but without even the 
most basic details of income  and expenditure its hard to see how any plausible  assessment 
could be made. Although  BMW says the check was automated - I dont know what  
information was provided. And its not the method of checking  rather  the substance of what 
is checked which is the crucial factor. 
But inadequate checks do not mean  a loan is automatically unaffordable. If the information 
which should have  been obtained  had shown Mr S was able to make the repayments on a 
sustainable basis then the loan would  not be unaffordable.
I think the very least that was required was evidence of income and expenditure. This would 
probably have  revealed Mr S was in receipt  of a net salary which - in the three months  prior 
to the loan - was around £1,000. Im not suggesting  its for BMW  to advise  Mr S whether he 
can afford the loan or not  or to offer financial  advice. But what I am saying is that before it 
made a loan BMW should have ensured it had sufficient information for it to make an 
appropriate lending  decision.
BMW was also aware Mr S had some  other  lines of credit.  Ive not been  provided with the 
exact details but it seems  probable this would have included his bank account - which was 
permanently overdrawn in the three  month period up to the date of this agreement. He was 
also repaying another loan at £127  per month.  And it ought  to have shown the payments on 
the new agreement  were more than £300  per month in excess  of his existing motor finance  
agreement. I think  it should  have been  apparent to BMW that Mr S could not afford the 
repayments on the new loan on a sustainable  basis.
Mr S told us about a financial  check which he said had taken place a few days  before 
BMWs agreement. And which had led to a refusal  of credit - despite a monthly payment 
requirement of under  £500. BMW have no record of this check and Ive no other evidence  
apart from what Mr S has told us. But Ive no reason not to accept what Mr S has said about 
this. It could be the retailer referred  his application to another  lender. But I dont think I can 
let it affect my final decision - as I dont know what information was asked for or provided.  
To summarise, Ive reached a conclusion on the balance  of probabilities that BMWs 
affordability checks prior to this loan were inadequate. And I also think it more likely  than not 
that if BMW had carried out adequate checks - taken together with what information it did 
have - it would  have decided Mr S was unable to afford the loan on these terms.
So Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint and I think he should be allowed to end the agreement 
and return the vehicle. I think its fair and reasonable he should have to pay for the use he 
has had. So I wont be ordering the refund  of any monthly payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
 Im ordering  BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited  to:
1.Arrange for the vehicle to be collected at no cost to Mr S.
 
Ref: DRN256901532.End the agreement with nothing further  for Mr S to pay from the date of settlement.
For clarity this means Mr S should  pay all sums due on the agreement, including 
arrears if any, up to the date of settlement.
3.Refund the advance payment of £750 together with simple interest at the rate of 8% 
per year from date of payment to date of settlement.
4.Arrange to have  the record of the agreement removed from Mr Ss credit file. This 
need not be done until all the payments  and arrears, if any, due on the date of 
settlement are made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2569015