K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) is that despite  him having 
previously complained, it didnt change his account  type and continued to charge him 
account fees. 
background
In 2015, Mr M complained  to RBS that hed been  given a fee-bearing  account,  which  he 
didnt want or use. RBS agreed to refund the fees hed paid. Mr M also understood that, as 
part of his complaint resolution,  RBS would convert  his account into one that didnt charge a 
monthly fee. 
But in 2019 Mr M realised that hadnt  been  done, and that from 2015 hed continued to pay 
the very fees hed already  complained  about.  
He complained again to RBS, and it said it had previously refunded Mr M in 2015, but that 
its final response at that time had told him what to do if he wanted  to convert his account. 
He was to contact RBS to arrange this, and as it hadnt heard from him, it hadnt taken any 
action. 
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair. The whole  reason  for his original complaint is that hed been  
given an account  type he didnt want or need, so he felt it was obvious  that part of what  RBS 
did to resolve the situation would be to change his account.
Mr M then brought his complaint  to our service.  Our Investigator looked at the evidence,  and 
didnt think RBS had treated  Mr M fairly.  So he upheld the complained,  and asked RBS to 
refund all charges  since 2015, along  with interest  until settlement.
Mr M agreed, but RBS didnt. It felt that its final response letter  in May 2015 had been very 
clear in its directions,  in which  it invited Mr M to get in touch to discuss  and arrange a new 
non-fee-paying account. But it didnt hear from him. It also felt that from 2015  to now,  given  
some queries made on the account,  and the statements Mr M received, hed had plenty  of 
opportunity to realise he was continuing  to pay fees, and should have done something about  
it sooner. 
As the parties couldnt  agree, the complaint  came  to me for consideration. 
I reviewed the case, and agreed with our Investigator that RBS hadnt done enough to 
resolve matters. I thought  Mr M should  get back his account fees from 2015, on the basis 
that he hadnt made use of the fee-paying features, rather than because RBS had made  a 
mistake in not changing the account. I felt that there was dual-responsibility for this. Yes, it 
ought to have been clear to RBS that Mr M expected an account change  as resolution to his 
2015 complaint.  But also acknowledging  that its final response letter was clear that Mr M had 
to get in touch  for this to actually be done.
My provisional view was that while this information  was clear in the letter, it was perhaps 
understandable why Mr M didnt notice it properly, as his focus was on the financial  
settlement. 
But I also had sympathy with RBSs point that from 2015 to now,  Mr M had ample 
opportunity to realise that the account  hadnt  actually  changed,  and to do something about  it.
Ref: DRN29124762For these reasons, I agreed that Mr M should  receive a refund of the account fees paid since  
May 2015, but that he should  only get interest  on these for the first year.  
My provisional decision was sent to the parties in an updated view from our Investigator.
RBS responded  asking  for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld.  
I say this on the basis that Mr M hasnt benefitted  from any of the account features hed been 
paying for (he did perhaps have a cheaper overdraft), and we know that he very specifically 
didnt want a fee-paying account.
However, I was also persuaded by RBSs submissions that the onus was on Mr M to have 
his account changed, and that this was made clear in its final response letter.  And also that it 
took him a long time to realise this was still a problem. 
In light of this, I dont think RBS should  pay interest on the refund for the full period.  I think  
its reasonable to expect  Mr M to have realised after a year of continuing to pay account fees 
what was happening.  So I think its fair that he receive interest on his refund for one year, 
from 2015 to 2016.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do the following:-
1.Refund Mr M all the account fees applied from May 2015 to date;
2.Pay interest at 8% on the portion  of the refunded fees from May 2015 to May 2016; 
until the date of settlement; and
3.Ensure that arrangements are now made  to change  Mr Ms account to a non-fee-
bearing one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2912476