K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim for the cost of 
medical treatment.
background
Mr and Mrs H had the benefit of private medical insurance cover with Aviva through Mr Hs 
employer. 
On the 28 November 2018 Mrs H consulted a specialist after her GP had been unable  to 
carry out a smear test and remove a mirena coil. The specialist said Mrs H had experienced 
extreme pain when  this was attempted due to an extremely  stenosed  vagina.  And 
recommended that she have a hysteroscopy so these procedures could be carried out. This 
took place on the 17 December 2018.  
Aviva agreed to cover the cost of the initial specialist consultation. But it declined  to pay for 
the cost of the hysteroscopy  and further  consultations. It said that the purpose of the policy 
Mr and Mrs H had was to cover treatment of acute  conditions.  And it didnt consider a routine 
smear test or the removal of a mirena coil to be an acute condition. It also argued that the 
hysteroscopy had taken  place after the policy had lapsed on 30 November 2018, and so 
policy cover  was not actually in place at the time.
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with this decision so they brought their complaint to our service. 
They want  Aviva to reimburse the further costs of Mrs Hs treatment, which totalled £1,959. 
They argue that the mirena coil was inserted to address an acute condition associated  with 
perimenopause, and its removal  was necessary to complete that treatment. They say Mrs H 
did not undergo  routine procedures as she had to have a minor operation under 
anaesthetic. And that their claim started before  policy cover ended.
Our investigator felt that if Aviva had asked Mrs H for all of the relevant information sooner 
she mightve been able to arrange to have the hysteroscopy  before  policy  cover expired. But 
she was satisfied Aviva did consider whether  the treatment would otherwise have been  
covered by the policy. And that it had fairly concluded it wasnt. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept this view.  So the case has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Mr and Mrs H told Aviva that they understood  its policy didnt provide cover for a 
routine smear test. But feel it should cover the costs of the removal of the mirena  coil. 
I appreciate the hysteroscopy Mrs H underwent for the coil to be removed was necessary 
because it hadnt  been possible to remove the coil without  causing Mrs H a lot of pain. But 
this doesnt automatically  mean the medical costs should be covered by Aviva.
Aviva has explained  that its policy covers  acute symptoms and conditions.  Its definition of an 
acute condition is;
Ref: DRN26403052 a disease, illness or injury thats likely  to respond quickly to treatment  which  aims  to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery. 
Aviva doesnt think that the treatment Mrs H underwent here was intended to treat an acute 
condition. And looking  at the letters  from Mrs Hs GP and the specialist consultant, I cant  
see any indication that suggests it was either. I understand  the coil had simply reached the 
end of its lifespan and so needed to be removed. And the smear test was being undertaken 
as part of routine  checks. 
Neither does the medical evidence suggest  that the hysteroscopy itself was intended to 
address an acute symptom or condition. Rather it was a means by which  the above 
procedures could be carried  out in light of the pain Mrs H had experienced when the GP and 
specialist had tried to undertake them previously. So I think  it was reasonable for Aviva  to 
conclude that the treatment she received wasnt treating a disease,  illness  or injury  that met 
its definition above.
Mr and Mrs H have argued  that the coil was inserted  to treat Mrs Hs symptoms of 
perimenopause. And that she had made  a claim for the cost of this insertion at the time 
(some 10 years earlier) which was accepted. They see the removal of the coil as completion 
of this treatment, and so think  Aviva  should meet the costs.  
To be clear, I am only looking at the merits of the 2018 claim which is subject to this 
complaint. And my decision has to be based  on the policy wording applicable to claims made 
at this time.  When reaching  my decision I have also had regard for Insurance  Conduct  of 
Business rules which state  that an insurer must not unreasonably  reject  a claim (ICOBS 
8.1.1R).
Aviva has said there is no benefit under the policy for any treatment for menopause if there 
are no longer perimenopausal  symptoms  apparent. And I agree that even if I was to find Mrs 
H had previously suffered  from an acute  condition which had led to the coil being inserted 
some 10 years earlier, there is no evidence she was suffering from perimenopausal  
symptoms when it was removed. 
Ive thought about whether it would  be reasonable to consider the treatment Mrs H 
underwent as completion of treatment to insert  the coil. But I think  its clear  this policy is 
only intended to provide  cover for treatment  of acute conditions  on a short-term basis  (as per 
the benefit terms). 
Normally the removal of a coil would  be a straight-forward procedure  that a GP could have 
carried out. Unfortunately that wasnt possible here for medical reasons, and so the 
specialist considered that a hysteroscopy was necessary. But there is no indication  the 
reasons this hysteroscopy was required are linked to an acute condition  otherwise covered 
by the policy.  So I dont think its unreasonable for Aviva  to have concluded that there was 
no benefit under the policy here.
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I think Aviva  has acted fairly when its declined  this 
claim. I know  Mr and Mrs H will be very disappointed by my decision, but I agree that the 
costs of the treatment  Mrs H underwent here arent covered by the policy terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN26403053Given I have found that Mr and Mrs Hs claim isnt covered by the policy, I dont  think its 
necessary for me to consider whether its fair for Aviva to also rely to the fact the policy  had 
technically expired  at the time treatment was carried out. Even if I was to conclude  it made  
an error in this respect, this wouldnt change my view that the claim was fairly declined.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2640305