K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about the delay in the fitting  of some  bespoke  furniture he had financed by 
way of a loan from Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook). Mr P also complains about the 
quality of the initial fit of this furniture.
background 
Mr Ps furniture  was due to be fitted  on 15 August 2018. However the fitting didnt 
commence until 20 August 2018  (five days later).
A field manager for the supplier/fitter attended Mr Ps property on 23 August 2018 
(three days after the fitting commenced). Issues with the fit were noted  by the field manager 
and it was agreed with Mr P that remedial work (to rectify the issues  identified) would be 
undertaken.
The remedial work was completed  to Mr Ps satisfaction on 10 September 2018. The date of 
10 September 2018 was a date requested by Mr P.
Mr P complained to Shawbrook about  the initial delay  in his furniture being  fitted  and that 
remedial work to the fit was required. Shawbrook agreed there had been some  shortcomings 
but said it felt that the suppliers/fitters offer of £300  was, in all the circumstances, fair and 
reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree and so referred  his complaint to our service. 
Mr Ps complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that £300 was, 
in all the circumstances, a fair amount  to remedy any breach of contract.
Mr P didnt agree and said that he should  be compensated in excess  of £1,000 by 
Shawbrook, this being 35% of the supply and fit cost of his furniture. He said he had no 
issue with the supply of the furniture, or the ultimate quality of the fit, but the time that [he] 
needed to waste  waiting [for the fit to be completed  to his satisfaction] .
Shawbrook agreed  to pay Mr P £300  itself (rather than the supplier/fitter having to do so) 
and that it would seek recovery of this sum in due course from the supplier/fitter.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in April 2019. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; 
relevant law and regulations, relevant  regulatory rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I would consider to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN21483162The relevant  law that applies to this case is section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974 (Section 75). This provides protection for consumers for goods  or services 
bought using credit. Section 75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a 
like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly  and 
severally liable to the debtor.
Having considered what both parties  have provided  Im satisfied  that Mr P contracted 
with the supplier/fitter for the supply  and fit of furniture and he paid for the same with 
a fixed sum loan. And because of this he can claim against Shawbrook  the creditor  
 for any misrepresentation or breach  of contract  by the supplier/fitter  in the same 
way that he couldve  claimed against  the supplier/fitter. So Ive taken  Section  75 into 
account when  deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Essentially what Ive to consider in this case is what went  wrong,  whose fault it was 
and what loss could  be said to have resulted.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there  was a small delay in the initial fit 
commencing and that remedial work  to this initial fit was required.  But equally it 
doesnt appear to be in dispute that the remedial work was completed to Mr Ps 
satisfaction and on a date requested by him. So this leads me to conclude  that 
although it might be correct to say there  was a breach of contract  by the 
supplier/fitter, in not initially fitting  the furniture with reasonable  care and skill, this 
breach has since been  remedied.  However  that doesnt mean Mr P isnt entitled  to 
financial compensation for the delay in getting  a fit that was to his satisfaction and 
within a reasonable period of time.
Mr P hasnt said that he has suffered a direct  financial loss as a result of the delay in 
getting a satisfactory  fit, but rather that he should be compensated for that delay. In 
other words, he should be compensated for the trouble and upset this delay caused  
him.
I dont under estimate Mr Ps strength of feeling on this point but I dont think it would 
be either fair or reasonable to award  him the sum he is seeking  in this respect.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable to award in cases like this Im 
considering the liability  of the finance  provider  for a like claim for misrepresentation 
or breach of contract  against the supplier/fitter.  
So I think its relevant  to consider what compensation a court might award against 
the supplier/fitter in similar circumstances. Compensation for trouble and upset (or 
distress and inconvenience as its sometime referred to) is often limited  in this type of 
contract as with any building work there  is an expectation of a level of disruption and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN21483163Taking the length of the delay in the initial fit commencing and how quickly the 
remedial work was completed  to Mr Ps satisfaction, I find that £300  represents an 
appropriate sum for Shawbrook to have to pay. I would also add that Shawbrook can 
reduce this sum by any amount Mr P receives from the supplier/fitter in respect of the 
same.
Shawbrook responded to say it accepted  my provisional findings.
Mr P responded to say that he, albeit reluctantly, accepted my provisional  findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that both parties have accepted  my provisional findings  I see no reason to depart from 
them and I now confirm  them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Shawbrook Bank Limited must pay Mr P 
£300 less any amount  he receives from the supplier/fitter in respect of the same.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2148316