K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about what Bank of Scotland plc has done to put things right following 
his complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance.
background
In 2000, April 2001 and July 2001,  Bank  of Scotland lent Mr M money. At the same time, it 
sold him PPI policies. The cost of the PPI policies  was added to the amounts Mr M 
borrowed, so hed repay these extra amounts, with interest, as part of his monthly loan 
repayments.
Mr M says the policies were mis-sold.
Bank of Scotland investigated  the complaint, and thought it should be upheld.  It offered to 
put Mr M in the financial position hed be in if he hadnt bought these PPI policies. After 
deducting tax, it worked  out it needed  to pay Mr M £8,017.41.
Mr M says he should get more. He says the cost of the PPI meant he ended  up in serious 
financial difficulties. He also says he tried to claim on the PPI when he was off work sick, but 
couldnt because  the illness was related to an underlying medical condition. He feels this 
should be taken  into account in any compensation.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 10 February 2020. A copy of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. My provisional decision 
explained that, based on what Id seen so far, Bank  of Scotland had offered fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI. I said Id consider any further  points Mr M or Bank  of 
Scotland raised by 10 March.
Bank of Scotland didnt send me anything further  to consider.
Mr M says hes unhappy that he tried to claim on the policy and was told that owing to 
underlying medical  conditions  he couldnt  claim. As the policy  didnt cover him the policy was 
mis-sold. He also said he has copies of call recordings with the bank showing this.
Ive therefore  considered  the complaint again.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland has agreed that it shouldnt have sold Mr M the PPI  so in this decision 
Im looking  at whether  what it has offered is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer in the position theyd be in if they hadnt  
bought the policy.
Ive looked at what Bank of Scotland has done. Im satisfied that its offer includes the extra  
Mr M paid towards this policy. It includes the extra Mr M borrowed to pay for the PPI and the 
interest he paid on the extra he borrowed.  Bank  of Scotland has added interest to 
Ref: DRN25863242compensate Mr M for the time hes been out of pocket. And so based on what  Ive seen,  I 
think the offer Bank of Scotland  has made reflects the extra  Mr M had to pay because of the 
PPI.
Ive thought about whether it would  be fair to tell Bank of Scotland  to pay anything more.
Mr M is unhappy  that he couldnt  claim on the policy. Mr M says he tried to claim on the 
policy, and was told that owing to underlying medical conditions he couldnt. As the policy  
didnt cover him, the policy  was mis-sold.
I have a lot of sympathy for Mr M and agree hes had a very difficult  time. But 
Bank of Scotland has agreed it shouldnt have sold him the policy  presumably taking into 
account everything Mr M has said. If Mr M hadnt  bought this policy,  he wouldnt have paid 
for it. And thats the position Bank  of Scotlands offer puts him in.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  strongly that what Bank  of Scotland has offered doesnt  take into 
account his inability to claim on the policy. But the things hes mentioned are reasons why 
the business shouldnt have sold him the policy  and so what Bank of Scotland has offered  
is what Id tell a business  to do where  I uphold a complaint for these  reasons.
I recognise that Mr M may have expected that the policy would cover him and that a claim 
would be paid. That said, based on what Mr M has told us, the amount Bank of Scotland  has 
already paid Mr M is a more than hed get if I instead told Bank of Scotland to pay the value  
of the claim. It wouldnt be fair to tell Bank  of Scotland to pay the value of a claim in addition 
to the refund  of premiums, as this means  Mr M would  get a benefit he hadnt paid for.
Ive considered everything else Mr M has said, but this doesnt  change my conclusion. In all 
the circumstances, I think  what Bank  of Scotland has offered is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that 
Bank of Scotland plc has paid fair compensation for mis-selling PPI to Mr M. I make  no 
further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020. 
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25863243copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  what  Bank of Scotland plc has offered to pay to put things right following his 
complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M complained that PPI was mis-sold  alongside  three loans:
The first loan began in November 2000. Mr M borrowed £2,000 over 36 months,  plus an extra 
£468.16 to pay for the PPI.
The second loan began in April 2001. Mr M borrowed  £6,000 over 60 months, plus a further 
£2,291.52 to pay for the PPI.
The final loan began in July 2001. Mr M borrowed  £9,200  over 66 months, plus an extra 
£3,853.69 to pay for the PPI.
In each case  the cost of the PPI was added to the amount Mr M borrowed  so hed repay these extra 
amounts, with interest, as part of his monthly loan repayments.
Bank of Scotland  investigated the complaint and thought it should be upheld. It offered to put Mr M in 
the financial position hed be in if he hadnt taken out the PPI policies.   After deducting  tax, it worked 
out it needed to pay Mr M £8,017.41. 
Mr M feels he should get more. He says that the cost of the PPI meant he ended up in serious 
financial difficulties. He also says he tried to claim on the PPI when he was off work sick, but couldnt 
because the illness was related to an underlying medical  condition.  He feels this should  be taken into 
account in any compensation.
Our adjudicator looked  at the complaint and thought that what Bank of Scotland  had offered  was fair. 
Mr M didnt agree. The complaint has been  referred to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
In this case Bank of Scotland  has agreed the complaint  about  the sale of PPI should be upheld.  So 
Ive looked at whether what Bank of Scotland has offered  is fair.
Where a business agrees  that a complaint about the sale of PPI should  be upheld,  I expect the 
business to put the consumer  in the position theyd be in if they hadnt bought the policy.
As Mr M borrowed more to pay for the PPI, his payments were bigger than they should have been.  
Whenever he repaid a loan early, hed get a small refund of the amount added  to the loan at the 
beginning to pay for the insurance  but hed still have  to pay more to repay  the loan than he should  
have. Mr M needs to get the extra he paid back.
Ive looked at what  Bank of Scotland  has done  and it appears its worked out this part of the offer as 
Id expect. The refund includes the extra Mr M paid each  month towards  the PPI, and the amount that 
was left when the loan ended. As Mr M repaid each of the first two loans using the next loan in the 
sequence, the offer also includes the extra interest Mr M had to pay because  of this. And as Mr M has 
been out of pocket, Bank  of Scotland has added  interest  the rate is 8%  to the extra Mr M paid 
from the date he paid it until he gets it back.  And so Im satisfied  that the compensation Bank of 
Scotland has offered reflects the extra Mr M paid towards the PPI.
So Ive gone on to consider the points Mr M has raised and whether Bank of Scotland  needs to pay 
anything more.
Ref: DRN25863244Mr M says he couldnt make  a claim on this policy. He was off work owing  to a medical condition  but 
says that when he tried to make a claim was told he couldnt because it was connected  to a condition 
 asthma  that he already  had when  the policy  started. Mr M says that when he tried to claim on the 
policy he was off work for eight to 12 weeks.
I agree that this must have  been a very difficult time for Mr M. But Im not persuaded  this means  Mr M 
gets more compensation.  Thats because Bank  of Scotland  has agreed he shouldnt  have bought the 
policy and refunded everything he paid for it. If hed instead made  a claim  on the policy, hed only 
have got three  months worth of loan repayments  which is a lot less than what Bank of Scotland has 
already paid.
Ive also thought  about  the impact the PPI had on Mr Ms financial position  more generally. He blames 
the PPI for the difficulties he had making his loan repayments. I can see why Mr M might feel this way 
 on the last loan, the impact  of all the PPI policies  added an extra £90 a month to his loan 
repayments, and I see that from May 2003  onwards Mr M had difficulties making  these payments as 
and when they were  due. I also see that Mr M repaid  this loan with Bank of Scotland agreeing to 
accept less than what was owed.
Looking at how Bank  of Scotland has worked out the offer, though,  Im satisfied that the offer already 
fairly reflects this:
Mr M paid £16,170.14 towards the final loan  and he gets £4,104.15 of this back as part of 
his compensation. This means that hes now paid £12,065.99 towards the loan. 
But if Mr M hadnt bought any of the PPI policies,  and been able to make his repayments on 
time, hed have  needed to pay 66 payments of £190.08  a month  or £12,545.28 in total.
On the face of it, it looks as though Bank of Scotlands offer puts Mr M in a better  position  than hed 
be in if he hadnt bought PPI and could have afforded to make his repayments on time.
I also bear in mind that there was a large  amount left at the end of the final loan that Mr M didnt need 
to repay. And as Mr M also receives simple interest for the time hes been out of pocket, Im satisfied 
that the offer fairly reflects the impact of the PPI on Mr M.
Finally, I see Mr M now wants us to look at the mis-selling of the whole agreement. But in this 
decision Im just looking  at the sale of the PPI. If Mr M thinks Bank of Scotland  did something wrong  
by lending him the money, hell need to first refer this to Bank of Scotland, so it can look into this. 
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive seen, I think Bank of Scotland plc has paid fair compensation for mis-selling  PPI.
I understand it has already  paid this. So unless anything Mr M or Bank of Scotland  plc tells me 
changes my mind, my final decision wont make a further award.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2586324