K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) hasnt compensated them  for all of 
the money they paid for their joint Total Mortgage Protection Plan.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision of 
January 2019.  Ive attached a copy here because this forms part of this final decision.  In my 
provisional decision I explained why I was likely to conclude Mr and Mrs G had not lost out 
as a result  of taking  out a life policy in connection  with their mortgage and I invited both 
parties to let me have anything they thought  was relevant in response.
Neither BoS nor Mr and Mrs G replied to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Mr and Mrs G havent  responded to my provisional decision. But weve  
attempted to contact  them by telephone, albeit without  success.  And we sent them another  
copy of my provisional decision by post.
I think if theyd wanted to respond, they wouldve done  so by now. So I think its safe for me 
to assume that they have nothing more  to add and to go ahead  and issue my final decision.
Because Ive not been given anything new to consider, Ive no reason to change  my 
reasoning or conclusions  as set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided that while Bank  of 
Scotland plc failed to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs G when it sold them the 
policy for their mortgage, theyve not suffered any loss. So I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25882072copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) hasnt compensated them  for all of the money  
they paid for their joint Total Mortgage Protection Plan.
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage. At the same time they also took out a TMPP  designed to 
protect their mortgage  payments in the event either of them was unable to work through accident or 
sickness or if they lost their jobs. The policy also provided life cover  it would pay off the outstanding 
mortgage balance  if either of them died.
Mr and Mrs G subsequently  complained about their policy saying it was mis-sold. In response, BoS 
upheld the complaint and it agreed  to compensate them for the PPI element of the policy only  the 
accident, sickness and unemployment part.
Mr and Mrs G then complained theyd not received  all of their money back and they made it clear  their 
complaint was also about  the life cover element.  BoS responded  and said that, in its view the life 
cover element was suitable for Mr and Mrs G in their circumstances  at the time and so it rejected their 
complaint.
Upon bringing their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  the adjudicator upheld  the 
complaint because she said that BoS recommendation  for a level term life assurance policy 
alongside a repayment  mortgage wasnt suitable because the cover didnt reduce with the reducing 
balance of the mortgage.  She asked BoS to refund Mr and Mrs G the difference between the cost of a 
more suitable decreasing term assurance policy  and their level term policy, including interest.
BoS agreed with the adjudicators findings. But its calculation of the cost of a decreasing term policy 
for Mr and Mrs G showed  that this would have been more expensive at the time.  As such it said Mr 
and Mrs G havent lost out financially as a result so no compensation is due.
Mr and Mrs G disagree.  They  maintain  that the policy overall was mis-sold and want  compensation.
The complaint therefore  comes to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance  of doubt, my decision  is only about  the life cover  element of Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage protection policy. The other element   the PPI element  has been upheld  and 
compensation has already  been paid.  So theres nothing  for me to consider. My reference therefore to 
the policy  only relates to the life cover element.
In 2002 when  Mr and Mrs G took out their capital and interest repayment  mortgage, they were  
recommended to take out a TMMP, which  included  a level-term  life assurance element. This was a 
joint policy designed to repay the outstanding mortgage balance if either Mr or Mrs G died during  the 
mortgage term. Because it was a level term policy, the amount of cover  or benefit it provided stayed 
the same throughout  its term.
Given Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time  the fact they were taking on a not insignificant 
mortgage amount; they were married; I understand they had a dependant child; and it doesnt appear 
that they would have been affected by typical policy limitations and exclusions  around pre-existing 
medical conditions  a recommendation to take out life cover in and of itself was in my view fair and 
Ref: DRN25882073reasonable. If anything happened to either of them, the surviving partner would  stand to benefit 
financially by not having a mortgage to pay.
But in this case Mr and Mrs G had a repayment mortgage where the balance  reduces over time  the 
monthly mortgage payment  contains  elements  of both capital and interest. So the recommendation 
BoS made for a level term policy where the amount  of cover doesnt reduce over time wasnt in my 
view suitable. A decreasing  term policy  would  have  been  suitable  because the amount of cover it 
provides reduces in line with the falling mortgage balance over the term. And these facts should  have 
been clearly highlighted  to Mr and Mrs G. Because they werent, I agree with the adjudicator that BoS 
failed to treat Mr and Mrs G fairly and reasonably  when it sold the policy.
But this doesnt  automatically mean that Mr and Mrs G have suffered loss or damage as a result.  I 
need to go and consider if and to what extent theyve  lost out as a result of what BoS did wrong.
In this case because Ive found that life cover per se wasnt unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G in their 
circumstances, I think that if theyd been properly advised and informed they would most  likely have 
taken out decreasing term cover. So to see if Mr and Mrs G have lost out, I think its fair to compare 
the cost of an equivalent joint decreasing term assurance policy with the cost of the policy  they did 
take out.
Because this information isnt something this Service can readily access, BoS has provided the 
necessary information. And this shows that in this case, a decreasing term policy would  have been 
more expensive  around £7 a month more  so.
 
Ive no reason to doubt the information BoS has provided  there are many variables that affect  the 
pricing of life assurance, including the term of the policy, the age of the consumers and their medical 
history. So its possible in some situations for this scenario to occur.
What this means for Mr and Mrs G is that they would  have paid more for a decreasing term policy 
than they actually did pay. So Mr and Mrs G have not lost out  theyve paid less than they otherwise 
would have done had they taken out the more suitable  decreasing term policy. As a result theres 
nothing BoS needs to do to put things right.
I understand Mr and Mrs G are disappointed as they maintain  their TMPP  as a whole was mis-sold. 
And while they are right, for the reasons Ive set out above  theyve not been financially  disadvantaged 
by BoS  failings in relation to the life cover element, so theres no more compensation  owed to them.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, Ive provisionally decided that, while Bank of Scotland  plc failed to 
act fairly  and reasonably  towards Mr and Mrs G when it sold them the policy for their mortgage, 
theyve not suffered  loss as a result.  So I make no award.
Ref: DRN2588207