K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited has poorly handled a 
claim they made under their home insurance. And theyve said Lloyds has refused to cover 
the full extent of the damage  following an escape of water. 
Background
Mr and Mrs B have  a home  insurance  policy underwritten by Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  
Limited (Lloyds). 
In March 2018, Mr and Mrs B contacted Lloyds to say mould  was appearing in their home 
following a leak in their first floor bathroom. They said the mould was affecting a number  of 
rooms. At the same time, Mr and Mrs B wanted  to claim  for damage to their bathroom 
because of the leak  including repairing the bath panel, bathroom door and landing carpet.
Lloyds arranged for a personal claims consultant (PCC)  to visit Mr and Mrs Bs property. The 
PCC inspected the property and reported  thered been a minor escape  of water in the 
bathroom due to an issue with the toilet pan seal. The PCC said the leak had already been 
fixed by a third party  under  Mr and Mrs Bs separate home emergency policy. 
Lloyds said it could  deal with the repairs that stemmed from the leak  which  it considered to 
include the bathroom fitted sink and cistern unit, and stained hardboard base of the toilet. 
Lloyds said it wouldnt cover the mould damage  as it wasnt  attributable to the leak,  and was 
instead caused by condensation from showering  and a lack of ventilation.  Lloyds said the 
mould had appeared over a period of time and so wasnt  covered under the policy.  
Because of the severity of the mould,  Lloyds arranged for a second PCC with expertise in 
mould damage to attend the property.  They reached the same conclusion. He said although 
there wouldve been slightly raised  humidity levels in the first floor bathroom as a result of 
the leak, the levels wouldnt have been  enough  to be the main cause of the mould. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and so brought a complaint to this service. They said the mould was 
caused by the leak and the PCCs hadnt adequately assessed the damage, as they didnt lift 
floorboards. Mr and Mrs B said they were also unhappy they were  told to make a separate 
claim for accidental damage for issues with the bath panel. 
Our investigator said the expert reports showed the mould wasnt caused by the escape  of 
water and instead was most likely to be gradual  damage built over time.  She explained the 
policy didnt provide cover for damage which  appeared over time  as the mould  had done   
so she didnt think Lloyds  had acted unfairly  by rejecting the claim on this basis.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and made the following  points:
the floorboards  were only tested in one area.
the second PCC was bias because they knew  the first PCC. 
they want to know  if the bath panel is covered under the policy.
Ref: DRN25325722Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Bs further points. She said the PCC had tested the 
floorboards for moisture in the area of the leak, and the floors had tested dry. The PCC said 
there was slight moisture directly beneath the leak but this would  dry naturally. The PCC  
noted that the source of the leak was above  the floorboards, and when the carpet on the 
landing was checked with a damp meter this was dry with no evidence of staining.
She said Lloyds had been reasonable in asking for a second experts opinion. And she didnt 
think it was necessary for Lloyds to instruct a further expert. 
She explained that shed  not seen any evidence  of the replacement part being offered to Mr 
and Mrs B, so she couldnt comment on this. She explained that Mr and Mrs B hadnt yet 
accepted Lloyds decision on the claim  but if they did accept it and were then unhappy with 
the replacement,  this could be raised  as a separate complaint with Lloyds.
Concerning the bath panel, the investigator  said the experts had explained the leak couldnt  
have caused the type of damage Mr and Mrs B were claiming for. So she was satisfied the 
leak wasnt the cause  of damage  to the bath panel  or bathroom door, and so wouldnt be 
asking Lloyds to cover this as part of the claim. In any event, our investigator noted  that Mr 
and Mrs B had told Lloyds the panel was broken by accident when they tried to remove  it. 
Because Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why. 
The starting point  is the contract between Mr and Mrs B and Lloyds. The policy  lists a 
number of exclusions where cover will not be provided. This includes:
Wet and dry rot or mould unless this was caused direct by any event insured by this 
policy, 
The policy also excludes  damage which is:
A gradually operating  cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example  corrosion, damp,  condensation, decay or decomposition.
Lloyds has said it wont cover the mould damage  because it wasnt caused  by the escape of 
water, and it instead  happened gradually over a period of time.  So Ive considered all of the 
evidence provided  to decide  whether Lloyds reliance on these exclusions was fair. And 
based on Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, Ive thought about whether  Lloyds have taken 
reasonable steps when inspecting the property.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided a number  of photographs. These show mould  appears  in a 
number of rooms  both on the upper and lower floor. 
Ref: DRN25325723The first PCC found the leak hadnt  caused  the mould and was instead  a result of poor 
ventilation. He checked the damp levels in the area directly beneath the leak by unscrewing 
the floorboard  and testing the damp  levels. And it seems he also checked the damp levels  
on the landing,  which was reported as being  dry. 
The PCC then enlisted  the expertise of the second PCC due to the severity  of the mould.  He 
couldnt say what  had caused  the mould, but he did say the increased humidity levels  
because of the leak wouldnt have been great  enough to be the main  cause. 
Although I know Mr and Mrs B have reservations  about the adequacy  of the PCCs  
inspections, from what Ive seen  Im satisfied that reasonable steps  were  taken in order to 
determine the cause and extent of the damage and from what  Ive seen Ive no reason to 
doubt their credibility.
Overall having considered  the PCCs evidence, I find it more likely than not that the mould 
wasnt directly  attributable to the leak, and was instead something which  occurred over a 
period of time. So I think it seems most likely  the damage was caused by a lack of ventilation  
and not the leak. It follows  that I think Lloyds has acted fairly by not covering the mould as 
part of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Bath panel
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Lloyds has said they need to make  a separate  claim for the 
bath panel under the accidental damage  part of her policy.  Ive thought  about  whether this 
is fair, and having  done so Im satisfied  it is. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told Lloyds that the bath panel was damaged  as a result of the escaping  
water, but later said it had been  damaged when they tried to remove it.
Following their inspection, the experts concluded that the water  marks and damage to the 
bath panel werent  attributable to the leak. They said it wasnt  possible for the water to go 
down into the floor boards and travel back up the bath panel.  The experts concluded the 
water damage was instead a result of showering  and condensation.  
This seems like a reasonable explanation as to whats  happened. And as a result, Im 
satsified the two claims arent linked. So its fair for Lloyds to not cover  the cost of repairing 
the bath panel as part of the original claim. 
Mr and Mrs B also told Lloyds they accidentally damaged the bath panel when they tried to 
remove it. I think this further supports Lloyds suggestion that Mr and Mrs B claim should fall 
under accidental damage  - whether Mr and Mrs B choose to pursue this is up to them.  
Replacement sets
Mr and Mrs B have  also said the fitted  sink and cistern unit is part of a matching set. And 
since their complaint has been  with our service, theyve  said theyre unhappy Lloyds hasnt  
offered to replace other bathroom items as per the policy terms. 
From what  Ive seen this is a new complaint, raised  after Lloyds had given its final response. 
For this reason, this will need to be raised  seperately with Lloyds so it has an opportunity to 
comment on this before our service  is able to investigate. 
Ref: DRN25325724My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.  
Nicola Beakhust
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2532572