K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about how Acromas  Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
the breakdown  repair  cover component  of his roadside assistance policy.
background
Mr Cs car broke down and Acromas  sent a patrol  to attend him under his breakdown  repair 
cover. A temporary repair to the gearbox  was made.  Acromas  told Mr C to take his car to a 
garage and then to call it to agree on repairs. But Mr C didnt contact Acromas about the 
gearbox for four weeks. He said he was waiting for the problem to recur.  Acromas then said 
that the repair wasnt covered by the policy. Mr C was unhappy with this and with Acromas 
level of service. Acromas offered Mr C £25 compensation for his calls and for its website 
being down. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Acromas 
was entitled by the policy terms  and conditions to decline the claim. He thought its offer of 
compensation was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C replied that hed been  told by the garage that he should  keep driving  the car until the 
fault recurred. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach in cases  like this is to 
consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy  and 
fairly and reasonably.
Acromas declined Mr Cs claim because it said it was outside the definition of a breakdown  
as set out in the policy document on page  8:
Breakdown: A sudden  or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended  by the [patrol]; and
c) that has prevented  the Nominated  Vehicle from starting or continuing  its journey safely; 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement  of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed 
Mr C continued to drive his car for four weeks after the occurrence of the fault.  And there 
was no further  recurrence  of problems with the gearbox.  So I think  this repair  wasnt  
something that required repair or replacement for the journey to be resumed. 
When Mr C contacted Acromas again  to carry out the repair,  this was following  an unrelated 
fault. So Mr C hadnt broke down again due to the gearbox fault. And so I think  the repair fell 
outside the terms and conditions of this breakdown repair policy.
Mr C said the patrolman had reset the error codes and the garage had said it couldnt then 
diagnose the problem. He said the garage  told him to carry on driving. But this was contrary  
to the instruction that Acromas  had given to Mr C after his breakdown. It told him to take his 
car to the garage for a check in keeping with the policy terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN25597542In any case, the patrolman had noted down  the error codes  and emailed these to Mr C, so 
he could have shown  these to the garage. I cant hold Acromas responsible for the advice 
the garage gave  Mr C. And so I cant say that Acromas has acted incorrectly.
Mr C was also unhappy with Acromas level of service. But I think  the £25 compensation for 
his trouble and upset  that Acromas paid Mr C was fair and reasonable. This is because  its in 
keeping with what Id award in similar  circumstances. I dont require Acromas  to do anything  
further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2559754