K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Domestic  & General Insurance Plc (D&G) incorrectly  cancelled his 
insurance policy for his freezer.
background
Mr K bought a freezer and opted  to take out a care plan with D&G, paying  a premium of 
£0.99 a month.  
A month later Mr K received a letter to say that annual services werent included within the 
plan and that D&G would  be refunding him. He contacted D&G the same day to query this, 
as he hadnt asked for a service and he didnt  want the plan to be cancelled.
D&G said this was a system error. It confirmed the policy  hasnt been cancelled  and offered 
to pay £10 compensation for any stress this may have caused. Mr K felt this wasnt enough 
to put things right for him so he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator felt that whilst an error  had occurred, D&G had made an offer of 
compensation which was in line with what our service considered to be fair and reasonable. 
So he didnt recommend that D&G do anything more to resolve  the complaint. 
Mr K disagreed. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Mr Ks explanation of how 
the error  has affected him and his personal  circumstances.  
I can appreciate that receiving this letter would have caused  some concern. And it certainly  
would have prompted Mr K to call D&G to find out what  was happening. From the 
information Ive seen, when Mr K called D&G,  it was able to rectify the error straightaway 
and confirmed this in writing within a few days. There  wasnt  any break in cover  and Mr K 
wasnt prevented from making a claim on the care plan.  
Im satisfied £10 adequately  compensates  Mr K for the distress this letter  would have caused 
the day he received  it and the inconvenience of having to make a phone  call to D&G  to see 
what had happened. I dont think D&G need do anything more to put things right. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2602147