K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about the level of service received from Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) 
when trying to access funds held in her late fathers accounts.
background
Miss L has said she faced a number of obstacles  when trying  to deal with accounts  held by
her late father at Barclays. Shes said there  were  unacceptable delays, she was given wrong
information and it took her daily contact with Barclays to progress things. Shes  also said
shes unhappy with Barclays complaints  process, and the level of investigation  it carried out.
She doesnt think Barclays response addressed  her points sufficiently.
Barclays has recognised  that things could  have gone better. Its acknowledged  wrong
information was given to Miss L about  how long things would take.  And it recognised the
delays she incurred when  trying to make  an appointment,  her experience in branch and the
delay in the funds being released  as well as when trying to log her complaint. So it offered
to pay Miss L interest on the balance it released  to her  and £500 compensation for the
delays and poor service  she received.
Miss L remained  unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service.  One of our
investigators looked into the case  and agreed  that some of the issues were avoidable. But
he thought Barclays  offer of compensation was fair. He also thought it reasonable for
Barclays to pay costs  incurred by Miss L, in addition to the compensation and loss of interest
it had already offered  so he asked  for evidence of these.
Miss L remained  unhappy as she thought she should be compensated further for the 
mistakes Barclays  made. And she thought it was unreasonable for her to be asked to 
provide evidence of costs.  She also disagreed with our investigator that an estate cant 
suffer distress  she thinks  it can. So she asked for an ombudsmans decision. In summary, 
she said:
her referral to our service wasnt a disagreement  of the compensation amount   
but how Barclays had handled her concerns;
she suffered unreasonable delays throughout;
the estate can suffer  distress;
its unreasonable to ask for evidence of her costs  and she provided estimates as 
she was asked to do; and
Barclays errors and mis-information kept her from the large amount of money 
involved, and she only received  the funds as a result of her own efforts to resolve the 
matter.
The case  was passed to me. I shared  my provisional findings  with Miss L and Barclays, in 
summary, I said:
I was satisfied Barclays did make  errors  which caused Miss L a financial loss as well 
as distress and inconvenience;
I thought Barclays  offer to pay Miss L £500 compensation, and to pay interest  on the 
money released from her late fathers  account,  was a fair resolution to the complaint. 
It ensured she wasnt worse off, and it recognised the distress and inconvenience  
shed been caused.
Ref: DRN21829922Barclays agreed with my findings. Miss L responded with some further points. In summary, 
she said:
she failed to see why Barclays admission of further errors doesnt  result in an 
adjustment to the compensation amount;
she struggled to see the purpose  in the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service  
acting on behalf of consumers; and
she questioned  whether Barclays has confirmed,  given my findings,  that it will 
change its practices  for dealing with bereaved customers in future.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments already sent to us, in addition to 
any new points raised, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Having done so, I still think Barclays offer is fair. I say this because Im satisfied £500 is 
enough to reflect the impact the poor service had on Miss L, as well as cover the costs shes  
cited such as telephone calls and car-parking. In addition, by paying interest on the money it 
released, I think Barclays did enough  to make  sure that Miss L hasnt lost out as a result  of 
its mistakes. 
Miss L has asked for examples of when this service might award more compensation. While 
I understand the reasons  for this request, its important to remember that Ive only 
considered the circumstances of this case specifically. And although I appreciate  my view on 
fair compensation may be different to Miss Ls, I dont think it would be helpful  to speculate 
outside of the facts  of the case. 
Miss L has also said she struggles to see the purpose of our service in acting  on behalf of 
consumers. Without  wishing to be discourteous, I should be clear that were not a consumer 
champion to represent consumers  against businesses. Instead  our role is to resolve  
disputes independently and impartially. So although  Miss L might be disappointed by my 
findings, Ive based my decision on what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Barclays hasnt specifically commented  on its practices for dealing with bereaved  consumers 
in future. But I wouldnt expect  it to in response  to Miss Ls specific complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc offer is fair. It should  pay Miss L £500  
compensation and pay interest to the estate, as its offered  to do, if it hasnt  already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2182992