K820x#14Complaint
Mr L, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Santander UK Plc 
(Santander) UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 
April 2002.
background
Mr L took out the PPI to go with a mortgage  hed arranged in March  1998.  He says the PPI 
wasnt properly explained to him when  he took it out. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Santander  had mis-sold the policy.  Because  Mr L disagreed 
his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of payment protection insurance on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain  why.
From what  Ive seen, including what Mr L and Santander have told us, it looks as if Mr L 
bought the policy at a meeting and that Santander recommended that he take out the 
policy. That means  Santander had to be sure that the policy was suitable for Mr Ls 
circumstances as well as giving him clear  information  about  it.
Unfortunately, I havent seen any paperwork  from the sale,  which  isnt unusual  given that 
its been quite  some time since the Mr L bought the PPI. So I dont know  what  forms Mr L 
would have been asked to complete in order to agree to take out the cover. But from what  I 
know about the way these  sales often  happened, I wouldve expected  him to be required to 
make a choice about whether or not he wanted  to buy the cover  and its likely  he also 
needed to complete a separate PPI application form. 
Another key point here is that Mr L bought the policy around four years after hed taken out 
the mortgage. So I think that strongly  suggests  that he would have been aware that the PPI 
was something hed only need  to buy if he felt it was useful to have it to protect his mortgage 
payments. 
So, whilst its unfortunate that the sale paperwork is no longer available,  I think its more  
likely than not that Mr L was aware  the PPI cover was something  he had a choice about  
buying, but decided to go ahead with. 
Ive next thought about whether the policy was suitable for Mr L. From what Ive seen, Mr L 
was eligible for the cover  and wouldnt have been disadvantaged  by any of its main 
exclusions. I see that Mr L told Santander about a medical condition  hed had before he 
took out the cover. But he didnt  give any details of having sought  any treatment for it or if 
hed had to take time off work because of it. That suggests to me that Mr L ought  still to 
have been able to make a successful claim if hed needed to.
Ref: DRN24733212Mr L hasnt told us about being  entitled  to any benefits from his employer. But even if he 
was receiving such benefits, the PPI cover would pay out in addition to those benefits, 
and would have  avoided the need for Mr L to dig into any financial resources he may 
have had. So it seems  to me that the PPI was a worthwhile  benefit also have given Mr L 
the reassurance  of knowing that his home  was protected.
The PPI cost £35.45 per month and provided a monthly benefit of £587 to cover  Mr Ls 
monthly mortgage payments. Its likely this would have been  explained  to Mr L in the 
meeting at the time of the sale. I also think its likely he would have  been  given some 
information summarising the policy  terms. In particular,  Ive seen copies of the 
correspondence sent to him after he took out the policy,  enclosing  his policy schedule and 
policy document.  But  Ive no way of knowing if Mr L looked at this information. So its at 
least potentially possible that there  may have been  some shortcomings in the way this 
policy was sold. Having  looked at the sale carefully, however, I think Mr L would still have 
decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  advised  and informed.
Mr Ls representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that we are 
not correctly applying the regulators  rules  and guidance for handling  PPI complaints; these 
policies represented  poor value because  of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value and explained the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ls representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ls individual  complaint   just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ls particular case. But 
these points do not persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2473321