K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Covea Insurance plc declined a claim made  on his motor  insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr J had an accident and his car was deemed  to be beyond  economical repair.  Covea then 
found that when Mr J took out his policy he hadnt  declared that hed previously  had 
insurance cancelled.  Covea cancelled the policy from the start (voided it), declined the claim 
and refunded Mr Js premiums.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Mr J had 
answered a clear question about  previous cancellations incorrectly. He thought Covea 
wouldnt have offered cover if hed answered  this correctly. So he thought it was entitled  to 
void the policy and decline  the claim.
Mr J replied that he thought this was unfair  as hed made an honest  mistake.  He thought 
Covea had known  about the previous  cancellation  before he made his claim. He thought  
Covea had voided the policy because  the repairer deemed his car to be beyond economical 
repair. Mr J asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J thought Covea  had only checked the small print when his car was deemed to be 
beyond economical  repair. But I dont agree. I think its common for insurers to check policy 
details when a claim is made in order to validate  the policy.  I cant  see that Covea knew 
about the previous cancellation beforehand.  
As the adjudicator has explained, where  a complaint arises from non-disclosure of 
information important  to an insurer, we take into account the relevant legislation.  We look to 
see that it asked  a clear  question when the policy was taken out. We check that the 
information given  would  affect whether a policy  was offered. And we check whether the 
informant has acted  carelessly or deliberately  in making the non-disclosure.
Mr J has told us about the circumstances of his previously  cancelled  insurance policy. Covea 
also discussed this with his previous insurer. It told Covea that Mr J had called it after he had 
received the cancellation  notice and he had contested  it. So I think Mr J was reasonably 
aware that hed had a previous policy cancelled.
Mr J applied for his policy  online and Ive seen the relevant question  he was then asked. In 
his application  Mr J was asked if hed had any insurance declined or cancelled.  I think  it was 
for Mr J to take reasonable care in answering the question not to make a misrepresentation. 
Covea then sent Mr J his policy documents. Mr J was asked to check  that the Statement of 
Fact was accurate. This included the question about  previous cancellations and this was 
answered No. I cant see that Mr J corrected this at the time. 
Ref: DRN21022642So I think Mr J was asked a clear  question about  previously cancelled  insurance and he 
answered this incorrectly.  Covea has provided us with an extract from its underwriting 
guidelines that shows that it wouldnt have  offered  cover if Mr J had answered the question 
correctly. 
So I think that under the relevant legislation Mr J made a qualifying misrepresentation of 
information material to Covea. I think it was entitled to void the policy  and decline the claim. 
Mr J said he didnt think he needed  to declare  the previous cancellation  because  the 
previous insurer hadnt  paid out a claim. So I think Covea fairly refunded Mr Js premiums  as 
it decided that his misrepresentation had been  careless. I dont require it to do anything 
further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2102264