K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr M complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited,  trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance,  provided  loans that were unaffordable.
background
The estate  of the Mr M is represented  in this complaint by his son, Mr M. Mr M complains 
about loans given to his late father.  He said he became aware  his parents had significant 
health and then financial problems in January 2015.  He found a lot of correspondence  from 
Barclays Partner Finance  about arrears that had started soon after some loans had been 
taken out in early  2013.
He contacted Barclays Partner Finance  on his parents behalf  and was told both loans had 
been written off. But theyd actually been  passed to a specialist  firm. Mr M was told the loans 
were unsecured and no investigation had been  undertaken.  He said his fathers  account had 
been overdrawn at the time. And he felt his parents had been  pressured into taking  up the 
offers. So he wants the loans  written off in full. 
Barclays Partner Finance  assured Mr M itd carried out credit  checks  based  on the 
information itd been provided before issuing the loans. And there was nothing to suggest  
they were unaffordable at the time. Barclays Partner Finance confirmed the loans hadnt 
been written off. But due to the circumstances it wouldnt  actively  pursue the outstanding 
balances. And it would update its agent with the relevant information.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with Barclays Partner  Finances response.  So he contacted our service 
and our investigator looked  into the matter. He considered whether 10-year loans were  
appropriate for a person aged  75. So he asked for further clarification about the 
assessments carried out to determine suitability. And after reviewing the late Mr Ms income  
and expenditure  he felt the repayments  were affordable and the checks had been 
appropriate.
Mr M didnt  agree. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. He felt further checks 
shouldve taken place   especially given his fathers  age. And his fathers  income was a lot 
less than the figure stated on the application  form. So he doesnt know  where Barclays  
Partner Finance  got it from. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms concerns. His parents were elderly and he felt his father had been 
pressured into taking  out long-term loans that he couldnt afford.  So Ive looked  very carefully 
at everything Mr M and Barclays Partner Finance have said.
The late Mr M applied for two loans totally over £23000. I understand the loans were for 
home improvements. And Ive not seen anything to suggest  the loans were used for any 
other purpose. The loans had a ten-year  repayment period. And the combined monthly  
repayments totalled £459.56.
Ref: DRN26304972Mr Ms complaint is about the affordability of the loans his father took out. As our investigator 
has explained our service refers to the rules set out by the Office of Fair Trading when  
looking at the affordability of loan applications.  So Ive looked  carefully  at the circumstances 
surrounding both loans, including the size of each loan, the repayment amounts and term, 
what the lender  knew about the borrower  and the information the borrower provided when 
applying for each loan.
Barclays Partner Finance  said it wouldnt reject  an application  because  of the age of the 
applicant. That would  be unfair. Its not possible to see a copy  of the credit check  as it took 
place some time ago. But the businesss records show Mr M didnt have any credit  
commitments or debts at the time. 
I understand the income figure of £24,500 was provided to Barclays  Partner  Finance  by the 
home improvement companies hed spoken to. However I can see from Barclays offer of 
finance that Mr Ms income had been  verified at £15,732.84. Thats  in line with the figure 
suggested by his son.
So I think Barclays Partner  Finance did carry out further checks on his finances when 
considering the loan applications. And, based on the information  it had, it felt he could afford 
the loan repayments of £137.46 and £322.10.  
I can see Mr M made the repayments for 15 months  before he had health problems and got 
into difficulty. So Barclays Partner Finance went through Mr Ms finances  again. There  was 
nothing to suggest he couldnt make  the repayments even if his income had declined. And I 
cant see anything to suggest there  were any health concerns raised at the time of the loan 
applications.
I know Mr M is worried his father may have been put under pressure by cold-calling to 
persuade him to take out the loans. Hes seen reports about loan companies targeting  
vulnerable people. But theres  no evidence  to confirm that took place in this case.
And I do understand the concerns Mr M has raised.  But I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Barclays Partner Finance lent irresponsibly to his father. He didnt appear to be 
experiencing any financial difficulties when he applied for the loans. Based on the figures 
provided to the business and its own checks and assessment,  it felt the loan repayments  
were affordable.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I think  Barclays  Partner Finance 
carried out appropriate and sufficient checks before accepting the loan applications. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 21 July 2019.
Ref: DRN26304973Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2630497