K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  with RBS. They also bought a monthly premium  
PPI policy, which would  pay benefits if Mr M was off work ill or injured, or lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs M complain  that the policy was mis-sold.  Among other things they say they didnt 
ask for PPI but it was added without their knowledge, and they feel they didnt really  need it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
were Mr and Mrs M given  a fair choice?
 
I dont have much clear information  about how the PPI was sold,  but RBS thinks  it was 
during a meeting and from what Ive read and been told, thats probably right.  But after so 
many years there are no notes of the meeting  available  now to show  me what, if anything 
was discussed  about PPI. So I have  to decide  what I think is most likely  to have happened, 
based on what Mr and Mrs M have been  able to remember and what  RBS has told us about  
its usual sales process  at that time,  as well as the mortgage paperwork that Ive got.
RBS says that as part of its normal  sales procedure  its representative wouldve made Mr and 
Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional. Its possible  that RBS didnt follow  its usual process 
on this occasion.  But Ive not seen  anything which shows clearly that this is what happened.
The mortgage application Mr and Mrs M completed and signed doesnt seem  to have dealt 
with PPI. But RBSs  records suggest  it received a separate application form and direct debit 
mandate for the PPI from them, in June 2001. The completed form is unfortunately no longer 
available, but RBS says the version  in use at the time wouldve presented  the PPI as 
optional and offered a choice whether or not to have it. I think thats likely to be right. And the 
mortgage offer later sent to Mr and Mrs M said theyd  instructed  the Bank to provide 
Loanguard (which is what RBS called its PPI) with full accident, sickness and 
unemployment payment  protection  insurance.  They both signed to accept that offer.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr and Mrs M have said. And I cant be sure exactly what  took 
place. But I think they probably completed a separate application form and bank mandate  for 
PPI, which  would in my view have indicated that it was a separate product from the 
mortgage. And overall I think its likely  Mr and Mrs M were  given a choice and opted to have 
the PPI, even if understandably they dont remember that now, so many  years later.
Ref: DRN28092882Mr and Mrs M have  said they werent told they could get PPI from elsewhere, if they wished. 
That may well be right. But RBS wasnt obliged to tell them  that, as long as it made it clear 
that they didnt  have  to have the PPI which it was offering. Which I think  it probably  did.
were Mr and Mrs M given  good enough information  about the PPI?
Mr and Mrs M dont  recall  whether RBS specifically recommended the PPI to them.  RBS 
says it wouldnt have  done so. And Ive not seen anything to show me clearly that it did. So I 
think RBS is probably right about  that. Which meant it didnt have to find out about Mr and 
Mrs Ms particular  circumstances and check that the policy was right for them.  They had to 
decide that for themselves. But RBS still had to give Mr and Mrs M good enough information 
about the cost and main features of the PPI, so they could properly make that decision.
I dont know what was said about PPI in the meeting, if anything.  So I cant be sure what  Mr 
and Mrs M had read or been  told about the policy before  they agreed to have it. Its possible 
the information theyd got wasnt as clear or full as it shouldve been. Mr and Mrs M certainly 
feel that it wasnt. But on balance, in my view its unlikely that having better information 
wouldve changed their decision. I think they would probably still have taken out the PPI. 
I say that because, from what Ive been told about  his circumstances when they took out the 
PPI, and looking at the likely terms of the policy, I think Mr M was eligible  for it. I dont think 
he wouldve been  affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt cover. I think  it couldve 
proved useful for them. And Ive not been told anything to suggest it wasnt affordable  for 
them at that time.
Mr and Mrs M feel that because of Mr Ms employee  benefits they didnt really need the PPI. 
But I think it couldve still been  helpful  for them. Theyve told us Mr M wouldve got full sick 
pay from his job for at least six months. But the PPI couldve lasted for longer than that - up 
to 12 months at a time - and it wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay, or of any redundancy 
payment he mightve  got if hed lost his job. From looking at the mortgage application form, it 
seems Mr M was the main income earner and I think it couldve made a big difference to 
their overall financial position  if he wasnt able to work for a prolonged period. 
They were  borrowing a large amount for a long time, secured on their home,  and the effect 
of not keeping up with the repayments  couldve been serious  for them.  The PPI cover was 
paid for monthly.  So it didnt add to their borrowing or attract interest.  And they could cancel  
it at any time, without further  cost, if their situation  changed or they no longer wanted it. 
From what  theyve told us, Mr and Mrs M didnt have any significant  savings  or other  means 
they couldve used  to make the mortgage  repayments if Mr M wasnt  earning. Theyve said 
they mightve been able to ask family members for help, but it was a large and long-term 
loan and to my mind  they couldnt  have  been  sure their family would be in a position  to help 
them out if and when they needed  it. PPI provided them with more reliable protection.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs M and their representatives have told us. 
And its difficult to decide a case like this, where the available information about  the sale of 
the PPI is very limited. But weighing up all that Ive read and been told, on balance  I dont 
think I can fairly and reasonably say the PPI was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN28092883my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.  So The Royal  Bank 
of Scotland Plc doesnt have to take any further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 January 2020.
Chris Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2809288