K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that PSA Finance UK Limited  unfairly charged him for damage to a car that 
he returned at the end of the term of a hire agreement.
background
Mr W hired a car for two years in March  2016.  When he returned  it, PSA Finance said he 
owed £279 for various areas  of damage  to the car. Mr W complained  that the charges were 
unfair and PSA Finance  said it would reduce the charge by £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
This left an outstanding  charge of £129 for damage  to the two front alloys.  One had clear  
damage to the spokes  and the other had scuffs measuring about 100mm.
PSA Finance said it abided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA) 
guidelines on unacceptable damage to alloys and notified a consumer of that three months 
before the end of a contract. It said the BVRLA  says any spoke damage was unacceptable,  
as are scuffs  longer  than 50mm.
Mr W added  that, despite  offering  the £150  refund,  PSA Finance had still taken the full £279  
from his bank account, causing him to go overdrawn and resulting in a £32 bank charge.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He found  there  was no 
specific reference to alloys  in the terms and conditions of Mr Ws agreement and that the 
damage to Mr Ws car was not abnormal wear and tear. He acknowledged that the BVRLA  
guidelines were  stricter, but didnt consider it fair for PSA Finance to apply those rules when 
a consumer had already  signed up to the less rigorous terms and conditions.  He 
recommended PSA Finance  should  refund the full £279 it had charged to Mr Ws account.
Mr W wanted clarification of the refund due to him.
PSA Finance responded to say, in summary, that its terms and conditions  state prominent 
scratches to chrome/bright  metal/inserts  constitute  abnormal  wear  and that as there  was 
nothing specific in relation to alloys in its own terms and conditions, it measured  the damage  
according to the BVRLAs specifications. It added that it sent Mr W a letter  at the end of 
March 2018 to tell him the cost of the damages would be debited  from his account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the terms and conditions of Mr Ws agreement  and Im satisfied that no charges  
should have been incurred if the car was returned in a good condition. The agreement  
defines good condition as being undamaged  and has no abnormal wear  and tear. It 
further specifies  what it considers  to be abnormal wear and tear.
As theres  no specific mention of alloys, Ive considered the clause  quoted by PSA Finance 
that prominent  scratches to chrome/bright metal/inserts constitute abnormal wear.  As 
research indicates  alloys on such a car arent made from chrome  and they are not inserts, 
the only potentially  relevant descriptor  is bright metal . But I dont consider its reasonable 
for this vague definition  to be applied to the alloys. So, Im not satisfied the clause applies 
and I can find no other  relevant definitions of abnormal wear and tear in the agreement.
Ref: DRN22490342I accept that the issues found with Mr Ws car fall within the definition of unacceptable  
damage to alloys  as laid out by the BVRLA,  but I need to consider whether it is fair for PSA 
Finance to rely on this to justify its charges.  I acknowledge PSA Finance says it notifies a 
customer of its use of the BVRLA guidelines three months before the end of a contract, but 
I dont find this is sufficient for such guidelines  to be applied. I say that because  the 
agreement that Mr W signed  does not include such specific  definitions  and it is not 
reasonable to apply  different criteria retrospectively.  
With regard to the associated £32 bank  charge  that Mr W says he incurred, I also find that 
PSA Finance should  reimburse  Mr W for that. Although  I acknowledge PSA Finance sent 
Mr W a letter  at the end of March telling him it would debit the £279  from his account on 
12 April 2018, this did not happen.  In fact, PSA Finance sent Mr W its final response to his 
complaint on 18 April 2018 telling him it was willing to reduce the damage charge amount of 
£279.00 by £150.00. This leaves you with £129.00  to pay.
Despite this, PSA Finance debited Mr Ws account with £279 on 8 May 2018  causing him to 
go overdrawn. Given this was after hed been told the charge had been reduced to £129, 
I dont consider thats reasonable.  Ive also seen Mr Ws bank statements from the time and 
Im satisfied that the PSA Finance charge was the sole reason  Mr Ws account went 
overdrawn and incurred  the £32 bank charge. So I find it fair that PSA Finance should also 
refund the charge.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited should:
Refund to Mr W the £279 it debited from his account;
Reimburse the £32 that Mr W incurred in bank  charges
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2249034