K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that WorldPay  (UK) Limited  is withholding money he took as card payments 
for his business.
background
Mr N entered into an agreement with WorldPay in June 2014 for it to process card payments  
for his business. It wrote  to him in 2017  to say it was terminating  the agreement. It withheld 
money and said it would not return  this unless he provided more  information. It had also 
discovered that Mr N had been  taking payments on behalf of a third party.
The investigator did recommend that the complaint be not upheld.  He said that:
-The agreement  with Mr N had been  in his sole name   not a related limited company 
which will be described here as B.
-The terms and conditions  of his agreement said that he must only process payments for 
goods and service he was providing. And that he must not use it for a third party  which 
was defined  to include any party  that was not a signatory to the agreement.  Mr N would 
not be eligible to receive remittance of funds in these circumstances and would  still be 
liable for any chargebacks or fraud claims.
-The information provided by Mr N showed  that payments had been  taken on behalf of B.
-WorldPay was not satisfied with the information  he had provided and would not release  
the outstanding  amount.
Mr N did not agree. He said that he does not know how his name as a sole trader  is on the 
contract. He says that related documentation he provided when  he signed the agreement 
showed that the relevant  operating licence needed for trading was in the name of B. He 
waited six months as previously suggested  by WorldPay for the funds to be returned. He 
cannot get any further information from the individuals  who provided the services  to B that its 
customers paid for by card. He wanted the money  back.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two interrelated  issues here.  The first is that card payments taken through  this 
agreement rose significantly in 2016.  Mr N had indicated to WorldPay  that he would be 
processing about £10,000 in total of payments  per year with an average  value  of £30. But in 
December 2016  alone payments were over £45,000. This led to the transactions  monitoring 
team at WorldPay writing  to Mr N by email on 30 March 2017 to say it would be withholding 
future payments under the terms of the agreement.  It said that this was to protect  its 
position. WorldPay asked  Mr N for information about the payments he had taken in the 
period 13 March to 20 March 2017.  
On 3 May 2017  it wrote to Mr N to terminate  the agreement. It said that there had been a 
significant increase  in the number  of chargebacks/fraud to a level that we consider  to be 
excessive.  It has also explained that the level of payments was considered unusual as it 
was outside expected activity.
Ref: DRN25703442I understand that the payments withheld were in total about £20,000  of which  the majority 
were taken in April 2017 after Mr N was on notice that they would be withheld. Mr N later 
provided invoices  to support these payments. This raised the second issue which  was that 
the invoices were in the name  of B, not Mr N.
The investigator has already set out that by taking payments for a third party Mr N was in 
breach of the agreement and had no right to receive  the related funds. WorldPay  has asked 
for more information to ..support Mr [N]s business model.  It had not been satisfied with 
what has been provided and has concluded  that it was unable to ascertain the basis,  if 
any, on which the funds might  be remitted to him. It said it would continue  to withhold the 
funds in the meantime.
I understand Mr N says that he thought  the agreement should always have been with B. And 
that it was a genuine mistake that it wasnt. But the point is that this was not the only or 
original reason why WorldPay were  withholding the funds.  It does  though raise questions  as 
to which  party is due the money and on what basis. I think WorldPay  has considered  what  
Mr N has provided.  And that under the terms of the agreement (section 5.4 C) it is entitled  to 
withhold the funds  indefinitely. Whether to release them is in my view remains a matter that 
is for the reasonably exercised discretion of WorldPay.  I dont  find on the evidence  that it has 
acted unfairly.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution  and I know that Mr N has already consulted 
a barrister who has told WorldPay that legal action is being  considered  on his behalf. If Mr N 
does not accept my decision  he remains free to take that or any other action subject to any 
relevant time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2570344