K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mrs S on behalf of her husband, the late Mr S, and herself.  
In the hope that Mrs S wont mind,  I will refer to the late Mr S as Mr S throughout this 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham  & Gloucester 
(C&G), mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2000 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £440.88 a month towards 
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage balance (split on the basis of 80% for Mr S and 20% for Mrs S) in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £12.85  a month. 
We were initially told that Mr S was self-employed  when  they took out this mortgage and 
PPI. However the mortgage application shows that, at the time, Mr S was employed as a 
milkman. As this documentation is from the time of the sale I think  this is likely  to be more  
accurate. Weve been told he wasnt  entitled  to any sick pay and didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should he be unable  to work. But I think its likely he would 
have at least been entitled  to statutory sick pay and statutory redundancy pay. From  what  
we have been told it appears  Mr S was in good health at the time of the sale.  
Mrs S was employed as a reprographics  technician.  She told us she was entitled to full sick 
pay but C&G  has provided information  that Mrs S said she would receive at least six months 
full sick pay when it contacted her during  its investigation. Mrs S has said she had surgery 
for a condition 10 years before the sale. 
C&G has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2006.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
C&G  failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN28499822The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means C&G should  have  told 
Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means C&G should  have  explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN28499823There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
C&G, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like C&G  at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account  
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. 
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Ref: DRN28499824Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If C&G  gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether C&G gave  Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and C&G,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
C&G had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  completed at the time and this includes a 
section about  PPI. In this section it includes options  to accept or decline to apply for the 
cover. On Mr and Mrs Ss form I can see that the yes box has been ticked. If Mr and Mrs S 
didnt want to take out the PPI they could have ticked the no option.
Ive also seen that a separate  PPI application  form was completed.  This details who should 
be insured and the percentage of benefit  they should receive.  I can see on the form that the 
benefit chosen for Mr S was 80% and for Mrs S it was 20%. Mr and Mrs S have both signed 
the form and they have  both signed  the direct debit mandate to allow  the premiums  to be 
taken from their bank account.  
As this form was separate  to the actual mortgage  application, I think Mr and Mrs S would 
have known that the PPI wasnt a condition of the lending. If they didnt want  to take out the 
cover they didnt need to complete the form.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did C&G  provide advice?
Ref: DRN28499825C&G says it provided advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs S havent been able to recall if they 
received advice or not. Looking at what C&G  says happened when it sold Mr and Mrs S the 
PPI, I think  it did provide advice.
This means  C&G had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps C&G took to establish whether the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. It seems Mr and Mrs S cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs S would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest C&G considered whether 
Mr and Mrs S had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded C&G  did all it should  have done  to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded C&G advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded C&G did all it should have  done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr and Mrs S were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  for the 
sick pay and redundancy that Mrs S would have  been entitled to and the likely 
statutory sick pay and redundancy  benefits  Mr S would have received.
-Although Mr and Mrs S say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ss employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mrs S has told us about an operation she had 10 years before the sale. But she 
hasnt informed us of any ongoing problems  following this surgery. So I dont think 
this made the policy unsuitable. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover 
for mental health or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any other  
work condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs S be disabled or unemployed  for 60 
days before they could make a claim and the fact the policy  would only pay benefits 
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim), the policy  still provided  valuable cover 
given:
Ref: DRN28499826Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs S be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  C&G gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what C&G 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. And I can see on the PPI application form it states  the benefit 
must cover 100% of the monthly mortgage  payment, so I think they would have had some 
idea of what the policy would likely provide cover for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  C&G gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded C&G 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded C&G gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN28499827-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that C&G  ought  to have done either. 
what effect did C&Gs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that C&G didnt do all it should  have  done  when  it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs S. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must  decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had C&G done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded C&G took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if C&G had explained things properly, 
Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when C&G advised them that there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment, they concluded  they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, as they completed a direct  debit  mandate  to allow for the premiums 
Ref: DRN28499828to be taken from their bank account, it doesnt  appear C&G told them the exact  premium  at 
the point Mr and Mrs S applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs S 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with C&G at the time, or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  C&G made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs S would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
which Mr and Mrs S knew about  or should reasonably have known  about  at the start 
date of the policy or which  they had seen  or arranged to see a doctor  about  in the 12 
months before the policy started. This condition only applied if the condition  occurred 
or re-occurred during  the first 24 months of cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their normal work  or any other work  which  they were,  or may have 
reasonably become  qualified for, in view of their training, education  and ability;
The policy only provided cover  up until the age of 65, regardless of when the 
mortgage was due to end; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs S says she had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because the surgery Mrs S told us 
about took place quite  a number of years  before  the policy was taken out and we havent  
been advised of Mrs S requiring any ongoing or further treatment for this condition.  And it is 
important to note that the policy only excluded pre-existing conditions  for the first 24 months  
of the cover   as Mrs S doesnt appear  to have  received any treatment in the years  leading 
Ref: DRN28499829up to the sale of the policy, I dont think she would have expected to be off work in those first 
two years and need to make a claim as a result of this condition.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs S wouldve been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their normal  job and any other work which in the insurers view they might be or may 
reasonably become qualified for, in view of their training, education  and ability, it might have 
played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept it may have given  
them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned 
given that if Mr and Mrs S were unable  (through disability) to carry on their own occupation 
the chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation  would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Mr and Mrs S have  said that Mrs S reached  60 while the policy was in place  - and at that 
time she stopped  being eligible for the cover. The policy would end on the earliest of the 
date Mrs S reached the age of 65 or the date on which she permanently retired from work. In 
2000 the state retirement age was 60, so its possible thats when  she was planning on 
retiring. But Mrs S was 57 when  she took out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not 
shed have thought shed  still get some value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered 
her for a reasonable  period of time. Ive noted that Mr S did reach 65 in 2005 and Ive been  
given copies of letters sent to Mr and Mrs S at that time to inform them that he wouldnt be 
covered from this point  and to transfer  the benefit.  And it appears that it was following these 
letters that Mr and Mrs S decided to cancel the cover entirely.
C&G may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mrs S would have received full sick pay for and their 
statutory and enhanced redundancy entitlements were also likely to be significantly less than 
12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve any sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if either of them were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
Ref: DRN284998210than not Mr and Mrs S would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  
I am satisfied that of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude C&G  should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think C&G  misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
C&Gs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why C&G failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  C&G gave  Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2000  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ref: DRN284998211Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find C&G negligently misrepresented  the contract  to Mr and Mrs S and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that C&G had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2849982