K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) put a default  on his credit  file. 
And the bank referred his account  to external debt collectors.
background
Mr B opened  an account with RBS as a student in mid-2016. It had an interest-free overdraft 
facility. But he found it easier to use a different account. So he moved his everyday banking  
there. Mr B was still a student. And he intended  to repay the overdraft when he was able to.
Mr B said he moved to a new address at university. But he kept the same  email and mobile 
number. And because he hadnt responded to a couple of letters to his old address the 
account was transferred  to RBSs recoveries department. RBS gave his details to external 
agents and placed a default on his credit file. So he wants the account returning to RBS. And 
he wants the default removing.
RBS said Mr Bs account had a £2000 overdraft facility. And it required regular credits and 
debits to keep  within its terms  and conditions. But the account had become dormant. RBS 
tried to contact Mr B through the details it had on file. The bank said Mr B didnt respond.  So 
it sent a formal default notice on 2 January 2018. And a formal demand  was issued on 
30 April 2018. The account  was then transferred to its recoveries department whod passed 
it to external agents  working on behalf of the bank.  
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with RBSs response. So he contacted our service  and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She felt RBS had acted within the terms of the account  when asking  
Mr B to repay the overdraft. Mr B had stopped  using  the account.  And RBS had been unable 
to contact Mr B. She could see Mr B had moved  address. But there was nothing  to indicate 
hed informed the bank. And itd tried to contact him about the account by telephone and 
letter. So she felt RBS had acted fairly  by registering a default on Mr Bs credit file and 
referring the account to external debt collectors.
Mr B didnt agree. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.  RBS shouldve been  
more sympathetic. He was a student. He only received a couple of automated  messages. 
And the debt agency managed to get in touch so RBS shouldve  tried harder.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can understand how upsetting  this 
mustve been for Mr B. As a young  student  he had limited income. And he feels RBS hasnt 
treated him fairly. So Ive looked at everything Mr B and RBS have said to see if the bank 
has done anything  wrong. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Mr B opened  a student royalties account with RBS in October 2016. The account offered a 
£2000 interest-free overdraft. The letter offering Mr B the account stated the overdraft wasnt 
for a fixed  period.  It was repayable on demand. And the terms of the account also required 
the Mr B to use it as his main current account  by depositing at least £750  every six months. 
And he had to make at least  three  debit  transactions each month.
After a while Mr B decided to use an account with a different bank. But the overdraft facility 
had been used. And the account  had a debit balance of just over £2000. 
Ref: DRN25958442According to the banks  records it sent four letters during November and December 2017.  
Mr B had breached  the terms of the account.  When Mr B didnt respond RBS issued a 
default notice  and subsequently placed  the account  with its recoveries team.  
I cant really say the bank  has done  anything wrong  here. The account had become 
dormant. And Mr B was no longer complying  with the terms and conditions  hed agreed to. 
When Mr B failed  to respond to its letters RBS sent a formal  demand on 30 April 2018 and a 
default was registered against the account on 31 May 2018.
I realise Mr B was a student. And he feels RBS shouldve taken this into account and been 
more sympathetic. But it was Mr Bs responsibility  to keep his bank updated when he moved. 
He wouldve been  aware of the outstanding balance on his RBS account.  But he doesnt 
appear to have made any attempt to contact RBS.  He just used a different account.
Mr B has acknowledged  he received a couple of automated messages. But he feels RBS 
shouldve tried other methods of communication to contact  him. The bank couldve emailed 
him. And hes registered for online banking. Mr B says the debt agency used other ways to 
get in touch so RBS couldve done so as well.
RBS, like other banks, has chosen to contact customers by letter in relation to formal  matters 
such as account  closure  and defaults. It says it doesnt consider email a secure method for 
such matters.  And thats a commercial decision the bank has taken. Its not something I can 
interfere with.
I know Mr B is also unhappy RBS passed his details to a third party.  Ive looked  at the terms 
and conditions of the account.  And section  1.5 allows RBS to share information with third 
parties in certain  circumstances  including to debt collection  agencies.  So I cant  say the bank 
has acted unfairly. It was unable to contact Mr B through the details hed provided. So it 
passed the account to a third party to try and recover  the debt.
Mr B is also unhappy RBS registered a default  on his credit  file. But the bank has a 
responsibility to accurately report how an account  has been managed. So it wouldnt be fair 
to ask the bank  to remove the default from Mr Bs account. Its an accurate reflection of 
whats happened.
I do sympathise with Mr Bs situation. But based on everything Ive seen I cant really  say 
RBS has done  anything wrong.  Mr B had breached the terms of the account  when he let it 
become dormant. And RBS was entitled  to ask him to repay the outstanding  balance. Im 
satisfied RBS made reasonable efforts to get in touch and explain the situation. I recognise 
Mr B feels  RBS shouldve used more modern methods  of communication.  But the bank has 
decided to write to customers when  dealing with formal matters. I dont think  thats  
unreasonable or unfair. And I wont be asking RBS to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Ref: DRN25958443Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2595844