K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about two mortgage applications made by an appointed  
representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd.
background
Mr and Mrs B had used Intrinsics adviser in the past, and in 2017  decided to move  house 
and apply for a new mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B say they told the adviser  they were only intending to stay in the new property  
a flat  for a short time while they looked for a house. But, they say, the adviser 
recommended a mortgage with a two year fixed interest rate which couldnt be ported to a 
new property.
Mr and Mrs B say that in 2018 they decided  to move again, and asked the adviser  to arrange 
to port their mortgage. They say he told them he could get them a new mortgage and what  
price range to look in. But the new mortgage  didnt go through, as the lender refused to port 
it at all to start with, and then only offered  to let them port a lower amount than Mr and Mrs B 
wanted  and less than their old mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B complained. They said the adviser  had arranged  a non-portable mortgage  in 
2017, despite knowing they wanted  to move. And they said he had misled them about what 
they could borrow  in 2018, and had made  mistakes  in the application to the lender, which  
cost them  the chance to re-mortgage. They said they felt they had no choice but to go ahead  
with the sale of their property and had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC).
Intrinsic said the 2017 mortgage was suitable. It said it recommended a mortgage that was 
portable and did meet Mr and Mrs Bs needs at the time  they hadnt said then they 
intended to move so soon. And the adviser did submit the application properly in 2018, but 
was asked by the lender to make  changes.
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint. She didnt think  the ERC should be 
refunded. But she did think  Intrinsic should  pay £750 compensation for the upset it had 
caused. Mr and Mrs B said theyd accept that to bring closure.  But Intrinsic didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage that was arranged in 2017, and I think  it was portable  the loan 
offer makes  clear the interest  rate can be moved to another loan to avoid paying an ERC. I 
think on balance Mr and Mrs B did tell the adviser they planned to move again,  and its clear  
from the records of the time that avoiding  being tied in was a key priority for them. But they 
also wanted to keep their payments certain and as low as possible. Although this mortgage 
did include  an ERC, it was portable  so I think the recommendation was a reasonable 
compromise between  Mr and Mrs Bs competing  priorities at the time. There was a last 
Ref: DRN28410382minute change of product, as Mr and Mrs B said  but this was to move to a product with 
cashback, not a product that wasnt portable.
Where I think things  really went wrong  was in the 2018 application. The investigator  got the 
lenders internal notes  and call recordings, which have  been very helpful in showing what 
happened. And they show, as Intrinsic  said, that the lender asked for some  changes to be 
made to show Mr and Mrs Bs other debts in a different way.
But that wasnt, in my view, the problem here. The lenders notes, and the application  forms, 
also show that the broker completed  the application incorrectly.  Mr and Mrs B are self-
employed, and take equal  drawings from their business. The broker completed the 
application form with their combined  income  showing as their individual incomes   which  
meant the application  was made  with Mr and Mrs Bs income appearing to be twice as big as 
it really was.
As a result, the lender issued a decision in principle suggesting Mr and Mrs B could  get a 
mortgage that, in reality,  was more than they could ever have afforded.
Im satisfied this was the brokers  mistake.  He knew the correct figures from the previous 
application (made on the same figures  in the same tax year).  This was a basic administrative 
error that he should  never have made.
But the error had serious consequences. Relying on it, Mr and Mrs B accepted an offer on 
their flat and looked  for a property to buy. 
Once the lender realised the correct position, and assessed their real income,  it said it could 
offer less than the existing mortgage.  
The mortgage rules  dont require an affordability  assessment where  a mortgage is being 
ported for the same balance or less. The lender has confirmed that the initial  automated 
assessment, offering  a lower balance, could  have been reviewed and manually over-ridden 
by the underwriters up to the same level as the existing balance.  The broker should have 
known that, and he should  have  known that the mortgage rules would have allowed them to 
port up to the existing balance. But he didnt tell Mr and Mrs B that either.
On balance, I accept  Mr and Mrs Bs accounts of their conversations with the broker  around 
this time. He was over-confident about  the amount he could arrange for them  based on the 
decision in principle issued on his mistaken application  and then over-pessimistic  about  
the amount they could borrow once the correct amount was known.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs B sold their flat, but couldnt buy the house they wanted. Once 
they knew they couldnt borrow what the broker had led them to believe they werent  finally 
committed to the sale,  and could have pulled out to avoid the ERC. But I accept they felt that 
would be difficult to do once things had gone  as far as they had, and with a substantial chain 
depending on the sale of their flat. They might not have  been legally committed to going 
ahead, but they felt morally committed.
Nevertheless, they could  have  pulled  out  and if they had, they wouldnt have paid the ERC. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to require Intrinsic  to refund an ERC they didnt need to pay. 
But the adviser put them in a very difficult and upsetting position,  leaving them  feeling like 
they had to sell their home  when if he had filled in the application properly it wouldnt have 
happened. I agree that compensation  of £750 for the upset caused is fair.
Ref: DRN28410383my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Intrinsic  
Financial Planning Ltd to pay Mr and Mrs B £750  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841038