K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc wants to enforce a mortgage he 
gave it as security for a money owed  by a third party.
background
In June 2007 Mr J gave NatWest a mortgage over a property  he owns as security for money 
NatWest had loaned  to a friend of his who Ill call Mr R. Mr J says the security was only 
intended to cover a loan of £100,000  that Mr R had taken out with NatWest  that has now 
been repaid in full.
NatWest is now seeking to recover an outstanding overdraft  from Mr R. It says the overdraft 
is also secured by the mortgage given by Mr J. He disputes this and complained  to NatWest. 
It didnt uphold his complaint and he referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think  Mr Js 
liability was limited in the way he claimed. Mr J didnt accept our investigators 
recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage Mr J gave  NatWest says it secures:
All [Mr Rs] liabilities  to [NatWest] of any kind and in any currency  (whether present or future 
actual or contingent  and whether incurred  alone or jointly with another) together with 
[NatWests] charges and commission interest  and expenses.
Its clear from this that the security wasnt limited to Mr Rs loan but covered any other  
money he might owe to NatWest at any time,  including his overdraft.
Theres a notice on the first page of the mortgage  saying Mr J should take independent legal 
advice before signing it. Its apparent Mr J did have legal  advice  because  the mortgage 
contains the following signed  declaration:
I confirm  that I am a solicitor/licensed conveyancer legal  executive acting for [Mr J] and that 
prior to the execution  of this deed  I explained  its nature,  content  and effect  and the practical 
implications of signing it to [Mr J] and he informed me he wished to proceed  with the 
transaction.
Mr Js legal advisor should have explained to him that the mortgage wasnt  limited to the 
loan. If Mr J didnt want to secure anything apart from the loan he should have declined  to 
sign the mortgage in the form it was in. Because he gave NatWest  the mortgage  with the 
above wording,  its legally entitled  to enforce the security to obtain  payment of Mr Rs 
overdraft.
Ref: DRN21834852my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against National Westminster Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2183485