K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs R say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Given how long ago this PPI policy was sold, neither party has been able to give me any 
evidence to show me how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs R  or how they agreed  
to buy it. Because  of this, its difficult for me to know what  happened  at the sale.
Mr and Mrs R have said they werent given a choice  in buying the cover.  Santander says 
it would  have given  them a choice and got their consent before adding the cover.  Where  
theres a dispute  about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
Because theres very little evidence available to me, Ive thought about what  I know 
about how Santander normally sold policies at around the same time it sold one to 
Mr and Mrs R. And having done  so, it would have normally got consent before adding  
cover and it would  have normally made it clear there  was a choice in taking PPI. I 
havent seen anything to make me think Santander  didnt  follow  its normal  sales process 
on this occasion.
Mr and Mrs R have given me some information  about what happened  at the sale,  but it 
isnt very detailed - this is understandable given the length of time that has now passed. 
But for me to be able to agree with what Mr and Mrs R have said.  I have  to think it more  
likely that someone at Santander  didnt give them an option in taking PPI  or someone 
deliberately added the cover without them knowing about it. And although  I agree this is 
possible, I dont  think its more likely. 
So on balance, I think it more likely that Santander gave Mr and Mrs R a choice in buying 
PPI  and I think they subsequently chose to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for Mr R, as he says he was the person covered under the policy  and based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example he wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had 
a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN27447512Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs R paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Rs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Rs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs R back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2744751