K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the charge that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited, 
trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has made for excess mileage when he returned a car at 
the end of his hire purchase agreement. He also complains about  the way that it has dealt 
with his financial difficulties.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz  
Finance that he signed in January 2015.  He returned the car when the agreement  ended in 
January 2019  and Mercedes-Benz  Finance charged him £3,215.04 for excess mileage.
He complained to Mercedes-Benz about the charge. It said that hed agreed to an annual 
mileage limit of 10,000  so the charge was correct  but if offered to reduce it by 10% to 
£2,893.53 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr W didnt accept its offer and complained  to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr W had 
accepted a service  plan for the car with an annual mileage  of 15,000  and he was persuaded 
that Mr W was led to believe  that he would be allowed to cover  15,000  miles each year in the 
car. So he concluded that Mercedes-Benz should  waive the excess  mileage charge but he 
didnt think that there  was enough evince to suggest  that Mr W had informed it of his 
financial difficulties.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
Mr W signed a contract  knowingly providing him with a 10,000  mile annual  allowance 
with the attributed monthly  finance  payments relating to it and the charges which  
would be applicable  should he go over it;
on the balance  of probability  it cannot  accept that Mr W was advised not to pay heed 
to the mileage allowance in the agreement;
the service plan is a separate product and not provided or sold by Mercedes-Benz 
Finance and the plans prices is not governed  by mileage but by the amount of 
services and the number of years;
a 15,000 annual mileage allowance  would have cost significantly more each month 
and Mr W has said that hed already gone over his budget  so it wouldnt have been 
affordable for him; and 
Mr W knowingly  accepted a finance  agreement for the agreed mileage and the 
shortfall remains due.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My W signed the hire purchase agreement which said that he would pay an excess  mileage 
charge if he returned  the car and it had exceeded  the annual mileage allowance of 10,000 
miles. But Mr W has described  the circumstances leading up to him signing the agreement 
and he says that he was told that he didnt need  to worry  about the mileage limit. 
Ref: DRN22228532Mr W also entered into a service plan which referred  to the customers annual  mileage  of 
15,000 miles, he says that he drove an average  of a little over 15,000  miles each year in his 
previous car and I calculate that he drove  an average of about  14,300  miles in this car. That 
mileage is consistent  with an annual mileage allowance of 15,000 miles. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that the service  plan isnt based on annual mileage but it 
clearly states that the annual mileage was 15,000  per year. I consider it to be more likely 
than not that Mr W was led to believe that the annual mileage limit was 15,000  and I can 
understand why he believed  that he wouldnt be charged for excess mileage. 
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances  for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to charge Mr W for the excess mileage.  So I find that it should waive the charge that 
its made.
Mr W has also complained about the way that Mercedes-Benz  Finance has responded to his 
financial difficulties. Its clear that Mr W contacted  it in June 2017 and said that his company 
had gone into liquidation. But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
he said that that was causing him financial difficulties or that it would be reasonable to 
expect Mercedes-Benz  Finance to have concluded  that he was in financial difficulties at that 
time. So I dont consider  that Mercedes-Benz Finance knew, or ought to have known, about 
his financial difficulties  or that it should have dealt  with him differently because  of the 
information that he gave to it in June 2017.  
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and I order Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited,  trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to waive  the amount that 
its charged him for excess mileage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2222853