K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold  her and her late husband  Mr M  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr M bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out additional borrowing 
secured on their home.  They applied for the additional borrowing and PPI policy  in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  Mrs and Mr M for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject  
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £550 a month   split according to their 
incomes at the time of the claim  towards Mrs and Mr Ms loan balance and other expenses 
in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  it cost £32.67 a month. 
Mrs M has told us Mr M was employed as a head teacher at the time. Mrs M has also told us 
Mr M was entitled to 12 months  or more  sick pay benefits from his employer. I can see from 
their additional  lending application  (which  HSBC has provided) that Mr M wouldve been 
entitled to six months full and then six months half sick pay. So I think Mrs M is mistaken 
and the paperwork  from the time is an accurate reflection of Mr Ms sick pay. He didnt have 
any other means  such as savings - of repaying  their loan should he be unable to work - 
although I think Mr M would have been entitled to some redundancy pay. Mrs M has said 
Mr M was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs M was employed as a teacher. She has told us she was entitled to more  than 12 months 
sick pay benefits from her employer. Again I can see from the lending application document 
that Mrs M was also entitled  to six months  full followed by six months half sick pay. And as 
Ive mentioned above, I think  the paperwork from the time of the sale is a more  accurate 
reflection of what her sick pay was. Mrs M also didnt have any other means of repaying their 
loan should she be unable to work. But I also think Mrs M wouldve been entitled  to some 
redundancy pay. Mrs M has said she was in good  health.
HSBC has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account is no longer  open and has 
explained that the loan is likely to have closed prior to 2005. It has also provided evidence  
that the PPI was cancelled in September 2004.  
Mrs Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ms representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN24645622The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mrs and Mr M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs and Mr M and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas this loan was a long- 
term transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be most  needed;  and
The information Mrs and Mr M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  before 2005. That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN24645623complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
HSBC, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ms 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN24645624-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mrs and Mr M with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether HSBC gave Mrs and Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs and Mr M know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. HSBC  has provided  a copy of 
Mrs and Mr Ms lending application documents. I can see that applicants  had to sign a 
declaration which said that they had been  given  all the relevant information about  the PPI 
and they wished to take the policy out. Mrs and Mr M signed this declaration in agreement  to 
taking the PPI. 
The sales  documents also included recommendations  for other  products which Mrs and 
Mr M declined to take. So taking everything  into account, I think its more likely that Mrs and 
Mr M knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did HSBC provide  advice?
Mrs M has said that HSBC didnt give her and Mr M advice.  HSBC has said advice was 
provided during  this sale and has provided a copy of the letter  it sent to Mrs and Mr M 
detailing the products it was recommending they took out alongside the borrowing and the 
reasons why. So I think HSBC did provide a personal recommendation to them. 
This means  HSBC had to advise Mrs and Mr M with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that HSBC took a number of steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs and Mr M. The adviser  had a lot of information  about Mrs and 
Mr Ms financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application.  But although a fact find 
was completed to try and establish whether Mrs and Mr M had a need for the policy  by 
asking a number  of questions about their wider circumstances such as their existing means 
 I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example, I havent  seen  
anything to suggest HSBC considered whether Mrs and Mr M were affected  by the pre-
existing medical condition exclusion in the PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN24645625Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did everything  it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs and Mr M given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded HSBC advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did everything it should have done to make sure the policy  
was suitable for Mrs and Mr M, I do think its more  likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs and Mr M met the eligibility  criteria for the policy.
-Mrs and Mr M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs and Mr Ms ability 
to continue to meet their loan repayments would have been put under strain if they 
were not working  for an extended  period of time.  Even though  Mrs and Mr M had 
good sick pay benefits from their employers and had been in their jobs for a long 
time, the policy would  still be useful. For example if either of them  was too sick to 
work, the policy would  have eased  the burden  on their finances  once  their income 
reduced after the first six months. 
-Although Mrs M says they were financially stretched at the time, by taking out the 
loan they reduced their monthly outgoings  considerably. And looking at their income  
and expenditure  that was recorded on the fact find, it seems the PPI was affordable. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr M. 
There was nothing  about Mrs and Mr Ms employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Mrs M has told us she suffered from an illness 
as a child. But she hasnt told us about  any conditions she or Mr M had that could 
affect their ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mrs and Mr Ms 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mrs and Mr M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
From the information Ive been given, I can see the recommendation letter Mrs and Mr M 
were sent by HSBC  explains that the policy would protect  their payments for 12 months  if 
either of them  were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment. And I can 
see the fact find that was completed explained the cost and monthly benefit of the policy, 
which would suggest  this was discussed.  But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell 
us whether HSBC  gave  sufficient information about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs 
and Mr M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr M. Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mrs and Mr M all of the 
Ref: DRN24645626information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs and Mr M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have done  either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mrs and Mr M? To what extent did Mrs 
and Mr M suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mrs and 
Mr M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mrs and Mr M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not Mrs and Mr M would  have  still taken out the policy,  had HSBC  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs and Mr M, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs and Mr M suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things properly, 
Mrs and Mr M would  have  acted differently, or whether they would have  taken out the policy  
in any event.
Mrs M says they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN24645627Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs and Mr M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments in the event they were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs and Mr Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs and Mr M were given about the cost and 
benefit was clear and they were told the benefit  would be paid for up to 12 months. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which occurred  within the 
first 12 months of the policy as a result  of any medical condition  for which  treatment 
had been given, diagnosis been  made  or investigations commenced  during the 12 
months immediately before the start date; or which was due to any chronic or 
continuing medical condition or disease  from which Mrs and Mr M knowingly suffered 
from on the start date;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs and 
Mr M werent  permanent employees.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs and Mr M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs and Mr M were  eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
useful to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mrs and Mr M wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mrs and Mr M didnt  have any pre-existing medical  conditions  and were in permanent  
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs and 
Ref: DRN24645628Mr M would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without  first providing  
some evidence to support  that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs and Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mrs and Mr M were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mrs and Mr M would have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs and Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs and 
Mr M found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including Mrs Ms own comments that they would not have 
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if they had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mrs M compensation, as that would put them 
in a better position  than they would  have been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN24645629Im also aware that Mrs M thinks HSBC misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mrs and Mr M, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2002  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs M and about the remedy a 
court might award if it were to find that HSBC had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2464562