K822xComplaint
Mr L, who is represented by his financial adviser in this complaint, says Abana Unipessoal 
Lda gave him unsuitable advice about transferring his occupational  and personal  pension 
funds into a Self-invested  Personal Pension  with unregulated investments, which caused 
him to suffer  a loss.
background
Mr L was thinking  about his retirement plans in 2013  when  he was 55. Hed worked  in the 
same industry for decades and had found  his role increasingly stressful. He was introduced 
to Mr F as someone who could provide him with advice about  his pension arrangements.
Mr F indicated to Mr L that he worked for [Mr F] Associates. And when Mr L complained 
about what had happened in 2015,  he reported  that Mr F had been  acting in his capacity as 
an appointed representative (AR) of Abana.
Mr L was persuaded  to transfer his occupational and personal pension  funds  - which had 
valuable protections - into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  with Avalon Investment 
Services Limited (Avalon). He was given paperwork to sign in order to complete the 
transaction during one of these meetings. 
Mr L decided to take tax-free cash  (TFC) of around  £75k. So, after allowing for fees and a 
cash balance, the bulk of his residual pot of around £202k was invested in two unregulated 
funds through  a business called ePortfolio Solutions . These were the Brighton SPC - Kijani  
Commodity Fund (Kijani) and the Swiss  Asset Micro Assist Inc Fund (SAMAIF).
I note that during 2016 and 2017 Mr L was able to take benefits  from his SIPP, and he 
redeemed significant  monies from his investments. However, much of his capital remained 
invested and ultimately  this was caught up in the problems that had emerged with the Kijani 
and SAMAIF funds which had been  suspended.  So he faced substantial losses.
I understand the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  became  involved with Abana when it 
became aware  the firm may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At the 
relevant time, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the 
insurance mediation directive (IMD). However,  it appeared  to be providing services  in the 
UK, namely  giving advice  and making  arrangements in relation to pensions, without the 
required top-up  permissions it required from the FCA
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether the advice had been  suitable, and if 
not, to assess any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy service specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
Mr L was asked by the specialist  consultancy  to complete a questionnaire  in 2015 related to 
the transfer of his pensions. It wrote to him some months later with its conclusions.  It said 
the advice hed been given by Abana had been  unsuitable. And in correspondence issued 
on 1 August 2016, it set out how Mr L should be put back into the position hed have been in 
had the transfer  not taken place.
Mr Ls financial adviser (FA) had concerns about  the redress  proposed.  He didnt think it 
represented what wouldve been  the full value of Mr Ls previous provisions and protections.
Ref: DRN29590602Mr L brought his complaint to this Service in July 2016. He had three main areas of concern 
about what had happened. He said the advice  he received to transfer  his occupational and 
personal pension  plans into a SIPP and unregulated investments had been seriously flawed. 
It hadnt properly  explained what benefits  and guarantees  he was giving up. The advice 
hadnt taken into account his risk appetite or lack of investment experience.  And the costs 
associated with the advice and transfer hadnt  been  properly explained. 
Initially, Abana indicated it would settle the redress detailed in the reviews carried out by the 
regulatory compliance consultancy in cases like Mr Ls. It referred matters to its professional 
indemnity insurer. But later it changed  its position  and argued  it wasnt  responsible for what  
had happened, so it didnt  pay him any compensation.
Abana submits  that the individuals  involved in the transaction  with Mr L werent  its appointed  
representatives (ARs), or its agents. It says those  responsible had entered  into business 
arrangements with Avalon without its approval. So Abana says its not responsible for the 
acts or omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction  to consider Mr Ls complaint 
against it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mr Ls complaint. And after considering 
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters  raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service.
Abana has said Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. It says Avalon had a responsibility to carry  out due diligence.
Further, Abana suggests the problems identified in Mr Ls case  also rest at the door of 
another SIPP provider which it says had a relationship with Mr F. It also cites a fund 
management company  as having  responsibility. And it goes on to question  actions  taken by 
the FCA in 2015 which  it says couldve had a material impact on the losses Mr L and others 
suffered.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated firms  and 
individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties  here. Mr L has brought 
his complaint against Abana and thats what I need  to address.
Abana has also said that in a meeting it held with another SIPP provider and Mr F in May 
2013, it was told some SIPP products were insurance based and therefore compliant under 
IMD permissions. Its not clear to me if Abana is saying it was misled by other  parties into 
thinking it could  carry on the activities that are the subject  of this complaint. Whatever the 
case, as a regulated firm its responsible  for its own regulatory compliance  and its own acts 
and omissions.
Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  But it has offered arguments in support of its position at various  points 
over the past few years, and more recently  in response to our investigators opinions  and 
some decisions  this Service  has already upheld.
Ref: DRN29590603Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the arguments Abana has posed. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. And I wont be commenting further on decisions that have already been 
issued  those  cases are now closed and Abana  must adhere to any requirements placed  on 
it.
While Ive taken account and considered all Abanas  submissions, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. This means  the 
arguments Abana has made, including its most recent submissions to this Service,  which are 
material to my consideration  and the outcome reached, are addressed as appropriate in this 
decision.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case.
my findings
the parties involved in this case
Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mr Ls complaint against 
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by the organisation which took 
on the administration of Mr Ls SIPP scheme.  And these documents  have been used to help 
us build a picture  of the key relationships between the various  parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA authorised firm.
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F.
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. Hes the person who met with Mr L and gave him 
advice to transfer his pensions  to a SIPP with Avalon (and to invest  in the unregulated Kijani 
and SAMAIF funds). It appears he also made arrangements for this to happen. One of the 
matters I will need to establish is whether in conducting these activities,  Mr F was acting on 
behalf of Abana (either as its appointed representative (AR) or its agent).
Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
Ref: DRN29590604New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
Weve been provided with a copy of the AR agreement between Abana  and New Beginnings 
which is dated 7 March 2014. The recitals  of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement. 
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
At the end of May 2014, Mr F told Avalon that he was in the process of getting  his own FCA 
authorisation (we understand he had previously been submitting business to Avalon using 
Abanas authorisation number). He made an application for new terms of business  and this 
was acknowledged  by Avalon, which noted internally that he was leaving Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  on his own account. For example, the parties discussed ensuring 
appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were  in the process of 
agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN29590605Mr B
I understand Mr B introduced Mr L to Mr F. He was also a minority shareholder of New 
Beginnings. Given testimony weve had from other  complainants it seems likely Mr B had a 
role working  for [Mr F] Associates  during  2014. Mr B didnt have his own FCA authorisation.
Ms B.
Ms B signed to say she was responsible for giving Mr L advice  about  his pension.  But it 
doesnt seem that she met him when the initial transfer was being  arranged. It appears she 
signed the paperwork after it had been completed. Ms B was a Director and shareholder of 
New Beginnings.
Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA. Amongst 
other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals  in investments and to establish,  operate  
and wind up a pension  scheme. Mr L is unhappy about the SIPP arrangements,  including 
the unregulated  investments it facilitated.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. I 
understand the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently  considering 
claims against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mr Ls complaint against  Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint (bolding  is my emphasis) and sets out that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mr L complains done in the carrying  on of a regulated 
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana responsible  for those acts?
Ref: DRN29590606were the acts Mr L complained  about  done  in carrying on a regulated activity?
Mr L has complained  about  Abanas  role in him receiving unsuitable pension  and investment  
advice. And the subsequent arrangements made  on his behalf to transfer his occupational  
and personal pension funds to a SIPP with Avalon and make investments in the Kijani  and 
SAMAIF funds.
Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity.
Mr L was considering semi-retirement  and was introduced to Mr F to provide him with 
advice about his pension arrangements. In making  a complaint about what happened Mr L 
said he believed Mr F had been acting in his capacity  as Abanas AR.
Weve not been provided  with a fact find, risk appetite assessment, suitability report  or 
recommendation letter. We do have testimony  from Mr L about what  Mr F told him when 
they met.
I think its highly unlikely  Mr L wouldve embarked  on a high-risk  investment strategy using 
the bulk of his retirement provision without this course of action being recommended  to him. 
Mr L had built up his pension funds over decades of service. It seems more  likely than not he 
received advice that motivated him to make  the transfer.
Im satisfied Mr F provided  advice to Mr L to transfer  out of his personal pension  scheme and 
invest in a SIPP with Avalon.  And I believe he told Mr L that the unregulated  investments 
would perform better than his existing schemes and that a SIPP  would provide him with 
more flexibility in accessing his benefits, which is why he was persuaded to make  the 
transfer.
Ref: DRN29590607In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr Fs details were  included on Mr Ls ePortfolio Solutions application. And both this and his 
SIPP application had Abanas details on. He transmitted the applications and Avalon dealt 
with him as the key contact. It was led it to believe that he was introducing  business  with 
Abanas authority.
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights).
Authorised paperwork was transmitted  to Avalon which facilitated Mr L opening the Avalon  
SIPP and the investment  in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this constitutes the 
regulated activity of arranging  the pension scheme  with Avalon. And, Im satisfied  that the 
actions of Mr F constitute making  arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment  under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the activities  outside  the scope of 
Article 25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr F was an 
unauthorised arranger.
Even if I was to accept  Abanas point about  Mr Fs status, for the exclusion at article 29 to 
apply, its necessary that, in return for making  the arrangements,  Mr F didnt receive from 
any person - other  than Mr L  payment or other  reward arising out of their making the 
arrangements. 
Ref: DRN29590608In a recent  submission, Abana said Mr F received payment at the clients  request, direct from 
the assets of the Trust overseeing the pension fund.  It also said this wasnt commission.  But 
I think the actual  arrangement was supposed to work along  the lines set out in the AR 
agreement between Mr F and Abana. For example, at paragraphs 5 of that document  it 
says:
The Company will pay the AR 100%  of the Commission  to which  the AR becomes entitled  
as a result  of the Activities. 
The agreement goes  on to make further provision  for its control and adjustment  of payments 
made. The commission/introducer fees were  meant  to flow from the funds injected into the 
pension fund with Avalon,  from it to Abana and then to Mr F. So, the exclusion at article 29 
doesnt apply.
Abana has asked  for evidence of the payments it received via Avalon in relation to the 
arrangement of certain SIPPs. It should  have a full record of all the payments it received in 
relation to Mr Fs activities. I can see it requested some of this information on 20 February 
2017 when its Director  emailed Avalon  to say: 
We are missing all adviser fee statements except for the April 2014 payment of £10278.73  
[which included commission payments]. This information has been requested  by the FCA as 
evidence of the fees that were paid to Abana.  
Avalon responded attaching copies of the statements from March 2014 to September  2014 
saying it had no other statements showing payments made to Abana.  Ive no doubt payment 
matters were complicated by discussions ongoing between  Mr F and Avalon about payment 
arrangements from May 2014  and I refer to these later in this decision.
In any case, in relation to the arguments  around  article 29, as Ill set out later in this decision,  
Im satisfied Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana. So, Abana is the authorised person 
here. And its arguments are not telling.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  I disagree.  Ive seen no evidence  
that Mr F, Avalon or anyone else were  introducing  Mr L to an appropriate party  under  this 
provision.
I can see in a recent submission Abana interprets  what Ive said here is that Ive seen no 
evidence of the involvement of Asset Management  International  (AMI). This was a non-
regulated fund management  organisation that is associated with e-Portfolio Solutions.
To clarify. I think, Mr F on behalf  of Abana, made  the introduction  to Avalon  as an authorised 
person. But this wasnt for the purpose  for it to provide independent advice or the 
independent exercise of discretion in relation  to investments generally or in relation to any 
class of investments  to which  the arrangements relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 does 
not apply. 
Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities  giving advice on transferring 
from occupational  and personal  pensions  to a SIPP with Avalon and investing  in unregulated 
funds and making arrangements to give effect  to these matters.
Ref: DRN29590609was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr F. As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says (bolding is my emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  given and the arrangements  facilitated by Mr F.
The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether Mr F was acting  as 
Abanas agent in relation to the acts complained about, and whether it is therefore 
responsible for Mr Ls complaint on that basis.
Ref: DRN295906010Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Ref: DRN295906011Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so doing  the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  
"actual" authority to enter into.
So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr F (the 
agent) to act on its behalf in relation to conducting the activities Mr L has complained about. 
And whether this was done with the express  or implied agreement of Abana  (actual  
authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mr L relied on a representation  made  by Abana 
(or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr F had its authority to carry out the acts 
complained about.  
The advice given  and arrangements made by Mr F.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mr L were  either  (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
The advice about and arrangements for Mr Ls application for a SIPP  with Avalon, and the 
transmission of his application to ePortfolio Solutions and effecting the investment in 
unregulated funds, were  led by Mr F. Avalon relied  on the authority it understood him to have 
in these matters.
Having reviewed the evidence, I think the arrangements  in Mr Ls introduction to Avalon 
were conducted by Mr F on behalf  of Abana because:
-The advice and key arrangements  were  made  by Mr F in April 2014  this is before 
he told Avalon he was leaving Abana and provided new terms of business  at the end 
of May 2014. Before  this time Mr F had been submitting business to Avalon in his 
capacity as an agent of Abana and using that firms authorisation details.
-Further to the above, where  Mr Ls application  paperwork  required  identification  of 
the Financial  Adviser Firm Name, this was identified as Abana Lda.  And its FCA 
firm reference number  on the associated documents.
-Mr Cs testimony  is that Mr F gave him advice and believed  him to be acting in the 
capacity of an AR of Abana.
Ref: DRN295906012Im satisfied Mr F advised  on and made arrangements for Mr Ls SIPP with Avalon while he 
was still an agent  of Abana (and not in his capacity as an unregulated introducer when he 
was purporting to seek direct authorisation for [Mr F] Associates, or as part of the New 
Beginnings Network).
Abana says Mr Ls applications for the Avalon SIPP and ePortfolio Solutions  werent  signed  
by Mr F. I can see they were signed by Ms B, although Mr Fs details were included on the 
ePortfolio Solutions form. Ive thought carefully about this this point. 
However, from what Ive seen in this and other  cases, Mr Fs role in these pension and 
investment transactions for the relevant period has been clear.  I dont think the transfer of Mr 
Ls funds into the SIPP with Avalon and the investment in unregulated funds wouldve 
proceeded without  him. I say this because  Avalon  relied on the authority it understood Mr F 
to have in these matters  and it liaised with him as the key contact. Ill develop this point in 
the next section.
Abana has also said Mr L has been inconsistent  about who gave him advice because on the 
questionnaire he completed for the regulatory compliance consultancy  in 2015 he said hed 
been advised by [Mr F] Associates. 
I can see Mr L has referred to receiving advice from [Mr F] Associates, thats consistent with 
what hes said all along. For example, when he complained to Abana  in November 2015 he 
said:
I wish to make  a complaint surrounding the provision  of financial advice given to me by 
one of your appointed representatives, [Mr F], of [Mr F] Associates I have transferred 
pension funds from a Defined Benefit Occupational pension scheme and a Section 32 plan
 into a SIPP arrangement with Avalon on the specific advice of Mr F.
So Abanas arguments havent  persuaded me that Mr F didnt advise  on and make 
arrangements for Mr Ls SIPP with Avalon  while he was still an agent of Abana.
did Abana accept responsibility for this advice and arrangements under section  39(3)  
FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether Mr F did in fact have authority to act on behalf of Abana in 
advising on and arranging Mr Ls SIPP with Avalon and the investment  in unregulated funds. 
Weve been provided with an agreement  between Abana and Mr F which purports to be an 
AR agreement. This was provided  by Abana when we first became  involved in these cases 
in February 2016.  The agreement states the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Ref: DRN295906013Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
I agree  with the conclusion of the investigator here. The arrangements made  in connection 
with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mr L didnt constitute insurance  mediation 
activities or life assurance business   both of which relate to contracts  of insurance. So, 
based on the evidence Ive seen,  Im satisfied the terms  of the AR agreement didnt 
authorise Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried  out for him.
As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of document.  It says the agreement  
weve relied on didnt  have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the agreement wasnt 
enforceable because it didnt have  all the elements required to be a valid contract. And that 
because it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register  and therefore  Mr F didnt 
become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission which has some merit. For example, I can see 
that the last page of the agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a 
different font from the rest of the document.  And as Ive already acknowledged Mr F was 
never listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  itself which provided the copy of the agreement  to us that it 
now asserts  is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about 
Mr Fs role with Abana,  it told us We have  not been able to locate a written agreement with 
Ref: DRN295906014[Mr F] as an individual. To this it attached the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it 
couldnt find a document  with his original  signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana said that when it spoke to one of our adjudicators in February 
2016, it made clear  it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement and that he 
asked for it to be forwarded anyway. 
Abana seems  to be acknowledging here that there was an agreement, but that it was 
terminated. In any case,  I cant  find a recording  of the conversation between it and the 
adjudicator in February 2016. But Ive seen an exchange of emails  during that month  
between Abanas  Director  and the adjudicator. At no point was a terminated  AR agreement 
mentioned. The exchange was focussed  on understanding  the nature of the relationship 
between it and Mr F.
I dont find Abanas arguments persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it 
made no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud. And it 
didnt say the document hadnt  been signed  by the parties. I wouldve expected Abana to 
have provided  this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between Abana 
and Avalon which I set out in more detail  below.
Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
Leaving aside the AR agreement, there are several  other batches  of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  
into a relationship with him. In 2016  it told us:
The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [another advice firm] with [a SIPP operator] products. These clients  were 
transferred to Abana and he would  continue to assist those clients.  Abana obtained a [sic] 
agency with [the SIPP  operator] and provided  a home for his clients.  [Mr F] paid us £5880  
annually for this temporary  service as he said he was going  to be directly  authorised.  This 
agreement was superseded when  [Mr F] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became an AR 
of Abana.
This demonstrates  that Abana expected Mr F to carry on pensions activities  and facilitated 
this by entering into an agency  agreement with a SIPP operator. Further, theres  a pattern of 
Ref: DRN295906015contemporaneous evidence which bolsters  my finding that Abana  knew Mr F had a 
significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter dated  November 2013 from Abana to one of Avalons 
competitor SIPP providers  relating to bank  details for the payment  of commission to each of 
Abanas appointed representative / sub-agency - Mr F is identified as one of these. Abana 
says this was provided in preparation for the fees generated by the existing SIPP client 
base.
Theres an email exchange in early March 2014  between the same parties, in which the 
SIPP provider requests an urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from other advisory  
firms. However,  I think the exchange  shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship  to 
be that Mr F was working on behalf  of Abana and it was attributing  the business Mr F was 
submitting to it as being business  done  on behalf  of Abana as principal.
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014 about  the 
nature of the services he was providing.  Abana says this appears to be in relation to a 
suitability report of an existing transferred  SIPP. Its Director says this was a personal  email, 
and Mr F appears to want feedback because he mayve provided  similar  opinions  for Mr F 
when he worked  at a former company.
In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (bolding is my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
Ref: DRN295906016The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focusses on investment funds. There  
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
-The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
-Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
-Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to assist 
with). And it shows that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with a SIPP  operator  so that Mr 
F could provide  the same for clients.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf. 
payments made by Avalon  for business  generated by Mr F.
Avalon told us its records showed that commission payments for business  introduced  by Mr 
F before the end of May 2014  were  paid directly to Abana. Ive seen paperwork to this effect,  
with charges for Mr Ls SIPP  appearing on the May and June 2014  statements. Abana is 
shown as the introducer and the total payment (which included charges  for multiple  clients)  
was due to it. But unfortunately, its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients. 
Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He said the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
Ref: DRN295906017The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency.
Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony when it says it didnt receive  payments from Avalon in respect of certain of the 
SIPP transactions. I think the following  email  from Avalon to Mr F from September  2014 is 
instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter.  As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA 
from you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult  position with regards  to 
payment on these. Can I have your thoughts.  We will have  little choice other  than to make 
payment to them if we cant have the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think this information  supports  my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Although I dont know what payments Abana ultimately received for the reasons Ive set out, 
I do think the evidence  here demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake 
pension activities on behalf  of Abana as it expected to be paid for introductions that Mr F 
was making to Avalon. 
the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana 
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent reviews into several cases  that are 
now being dealt  with by this Service. The reviews  concluded Mr F had been  responsible  for 
unsuitable advice  he gave and the arrangements  he made for the transfer of pension funds 
into the Avalon  SIPPs, and therein  the investment in unregulated funds. In order to pay the 
redress due, it made  a claim on its professional indemnity insurance. So, at one stage it 
appeared to accept responsibility for the things Mr F had done wrong.
But Abana now says that its initial offer to pay redress wasnt an admission that it had got 
something wrong. It says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention.  It said 
the review work conducted by the regulatory  compliance consultancy was flawed. It makes  
various allegations, including that the review relied  on incomplete and false information 
provided by Avalon.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its more likely Abanas later retraction of the offer of 
redress had more to do with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the 
compensation costs.  I note in December 2017  it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
Ref: DRN295906018Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying or being beyond its insurance cover  because his activities  fell outside  the 
scope of Abanas permissions, it shouldve realised  this.
So, I think Abanas initial acceptance of the review process and the redress proposals is 
significant and is another  indication that it had given Mr F authority to act on its behalf  in 
arranging SIPPs, such as Mr Ls.
Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  Mr 
F listed  as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana  Team. It includes a photo  of 
an individual that purports to be him. We obtained  this information from an online resource.  
Mr Fs details remained  on the Abana website until at least December 2014.
Abana disputes these matters. For example, it says the historic website pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
website wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or as 
Abana suggests the pages  were just draft.
However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.  
Abanas engagement with the FCA in 2015
In responding  to some earlier decisions which have been upheld  against it, Abana 
questioned the jurisdiction  of this Service citing communications it had previously with the 
FCA on this matter. It says the FCA instructed that it wasnt regulated  to advise  on Trust-
based SIPPs.
I can see that Abanas Director sought  advice on this matter  on 2 February 2015. His email  
was as follows:
Dear X, regarding FCA authorised firm 597069 Abana Lda. Thank you for advising  me 
earlier of the rule book  regarding  SIPP advice  I have read the following chapters that you 
referred me toMay we ask the following questions:1. Can we advise UK residents on 
SIPPs under  our inward passported UK branch IMD permissions?...
I can see the FCA responded  saying that in order to conduct such business  Abana would 
need to secure  top-up permissions. Thats consistent with the case Ive been making 
elsewhere in this decision.
Ref: DRN295906019Rather than supporting its position  on jurisdiction, I think  this exchange  of emails in February  
and March 2015 is telling in that Abana still didnt know until it received FCAs advice 
whether or not it had permission to provide the services it had been up until that point.
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a weight  of evidence and argument here. And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs.  I 
think Mr F had its actual  authority to do this on its behalf. So, I think Abana is responsible for 
Mr Fs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
including his details  on Mr Ls application form and liaising with that business on his behalf. 
But, even  if Abana didnt  give its actual  authority for Mr F to conduct these matters  (and only 
intended him to be carrying  on pension business), theres well established case  law that if 
theres one act that was authorised by the principal,  we may be able to look at other acts 
linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
So, I think Abana can be held responsible for the arrangement of the transfer  of Mr Ls 
occupational and personal  pensions  into the Avalon SIPP and the investments in 
unregulated funds, which together ultimately  resulted in the financial loss hes suffered.
my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude that this is a complaint this Service can consider.  In summary because: 
-Mr Ls complaint concerns both the advice  about and the arrangements  for the 
transfer of his occupational and personal pension funds to the Avalon SIPP and the 
investments made therein. So, its a complaint about regulated activities.
-Im satisfied  that Mr F gave Mr L advice about and made  arrangements for the 
transfer of his personal pension  funds to the Avalon SIPP and the investments in the 
Kijani and SAMAIF  funds  as an agent with the actual authority of Abana. Im 
therefore satisfied  that Abana is responsible for his acts and omissions  in this regard.
Ref: DRN295906020considering the merits of Mr Ls complaint 
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Ls complaint about Abana in 
relation to the advice given and the arrangements made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  And, after careful  consideration,  Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mr Ls case. For example, Ive not seen a fact find covering his 
circumstances, nor a record of his objectives for his pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mr Ls attitude  to risk. And I havent seen a suitability report  with 
recommendations.
Mr L provided us with testimony  about what he could recall from the time when he was given 
advice to transfer his occupational and personal  pensions into the Avalon SIPP.
With regard to the testimony  of both parties,  I generally give more  weight to what  they told us 
the more contemporaneous it is with the events complained  about.  Thats  because  it tends  
to give a more  accurate  account of events  given the effect of the passage of time and the 
potential for the benefit of hindsight to colour  matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including the firm which took over as Mr Ls SIPP provider. As previously established, this 
has been important  in evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf of Abana in bringing about 
the transfer of his occupational and personal  pensions.
While there s conflicting  information about  what happened in 2014 and many gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ls case? 
The first thing I want to consider in relation to Mr Ls complaint is the extensive regulation 
around transactions like those performed  by Mr F who Im satisfied was acting as Abanas  
agent. The FCA Handbook  contains  eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems.
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
Ref: DRN295906021The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1R  requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has transferred their occupational or personal 
pension, I look at their circumstances at the time.  Why were they interested in transferring? 
Were those  wants or needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the 
transfer?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the transfer  to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer has been switched  to a pension  that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s)  or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
Ref: DRN295906022-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the transfer of Mr Ls occupational and personal  pension plans into a 
SIPP?
In short,  I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Mr L had spent most of his working  life in service to same industry. His role had been 
outsourced and he found the situation  quite stressful.  He was 55 and thinking about taking a 
step back  early  or semi-retirement.  He was introduced to Mr F who gave him advice 
about his pension arrangements and how he could invest his pension  funds.
Mr Ls representative told us he was considering taking some of the benefits  from his 
pension provisions and supplementing his income  with a part-time job. He was also 
interested in securing TFC which he might use to clear a few debts, including  his mortgage. 
And he wanted more  time to pursue his hobbies, like his interest  in classic motorcycles.  
Mr L was a member of an occupational pension scheme. After  nearly  22 years of service  
hed accrued deferred benefits with a transfer value of about £213k.  He also had a personal 
pension plan built up during his early  employment.  This had valuable  protections, for 
example a guaranteed  minimum pension.  It had a transfer value of around  £89k. Together 
his occupational and personal  pensions provided  for a projected annual  pension  of around  
£22,000 (assuming  he didnt take any TFC) when  he reached 65.
Ref: DRN295906023Mr L says he had at least  two meetings with Mr F who wouldve been  responsible  for 
completing the paperwork. As Abanas  agent, Mr F had to obtain information from Mr L in 
order to understand  essential facts about  him. In order to advise him to transfer  his 
occupational and personal  pensions  into the Avalon SIPP and invest  in the unregulated 
funds, Mr F had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ls investment objectives  (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for). 
-Mr L was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr L had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
As we know,  Mr L decided to take tax-free  cash (TFC) of around  £75k. After allowing for 
fees, charges  and a small cash balance, the bulk of his residual pot of around £202k was 
invested in two unregulated funds - Kijani  and SAMAIF. 
During 2016 and 2017  Mr L was able to withdraw  monies from his investments. It appears 
from statements Ive seen, the redemptions made by Mr L left him with about  £95k tied up in 
his SIPP.  This represented what was left of his pension provision. Unfortunately, he couldnt  
access further monies because the investment funds had been suspended leaving him 
facing substantial losses.
As ve mentioned  already,  Ive not seen  a fact find covering his circumstances, nor a record 
of his objectives for his pension arrangements. Theres no document  which captures Mr Ts 
attitude to risk. I havent seen a recommendations report. And I havent  seen  a useful 
comparison of the performance,  costs and benefits between  his then existing plans with 
what was being  proposed.
Mr L says he wasnt  made  fully aware of the benefits  he was giving up when Mr F advised 
him to transfer his funds into the Avalon SIPP. Although he received transfer  analysis 
reports, he says these documents were never explained to him. And he told us he never 
received a suitability  report explaining  why the transfer had been  recommended  and why it 
was suitable for his circumstances and objectives.
Abana hasnt  produced information to show Mr F followed proper  process, or if he did that 
this supported the subsequent transaction he advised and arranged. This is odd because  in 
March 2014 when it was communicating with another SIPP provider about the business Mr F 
was generating,  it provided some assurance that proper documents  were  on file and that its 
compliance function had oversight of what he was doing.
Abana told us that following the intervention of the FCA a consultancy service  specialising in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out a review of the suitability of certain 
pension advice and arrangements it had been associated with. This included Mr Ls case.
I think its telling this specialist independent  third party concluded in August 2016  that the 
advice Mr L had been given by Mr F had been unsuitable. And it set out how Abana should  
put things right. As we know  it ultimately failed to act on the outcome of the review.
Further, Ive seen a communication  between Abana and Mr F from around the same he was 
providing Mr L with advice in April 2014,  which I think is also relevant here. In this email  
exchange Abana provides  feedback to Mr F about his approach to suitability reports. This 
had been provided by its compliance function and it appears to demonstrate  Mr Fs practices  
were lacking, for example in relation to advice  around risk appetite.
Ref: DRN295906024From what  Mr Ls representative has told us, I think Mr L was interested in getting access to 
his pension benefits early.  He seems  to have well developed plans about what  he wanted to 
do. But I dont  think his risk appetite was high. His occupational and personal pension pots 
were modest given the stage he was at in his working life. And they represented the bulk of 
his retirement provision  his capacity for loss was small. 
Indeed, in responding to the investigators  view earlier this year, Abana provided  us with a 
copy of the questionnaire  Mr L was asked to complete  in 2015 by the consultancy  firm 
looking into the suitability  of the pension  transfer.  Its suggests  Mr L had a cautious attitude 
to risk and modest  objectives for his retirement.
To make Mr Fs advice  suitable, there  needed  to be a reasonable prospect that Mr L would 
be better off in retirement. There would be little advantage in transferring  if the benefits  were 
likely to be similar in value. And being a more conservative investor, the potential  benefits 
would need to be far greater.
Ive seen copies  of the very basic transfer  value analysis (TVAS) reports  conducted for Mr 
Ls occupational and personal  pension plans. This showed a critical yield of around 12.9% 
and 11.3% respectively wouldve been  required from transferring his pensions into the SIPP  
simply to match the benefits he was giving  up.
But Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr L was properly informed about the 
benefits, guarantees and flexibilities available  from his then existing pensions.  The 
performance required from any alternative arrangement was unrealistic given his risk 
appetite. His entire  pension  provisions, after taking TFC, were being invested  in high risk 
funds which  given his age, objectives and capacity for loss was not appropriate.
In addition, Im not confident Mr L wouldve had a clear  idea about  fees he was to be 
charged for going  ahead  with the transfer in comparison  to the fees and charges on his 
existing pensions. I dont  think  he wouldve  expected these to exceed £15,000 as they did.
So, Ive concluded  Mr F wasnt  acting with due skill, care or diligence when he gave advice 
on and effected  the transfer of Mr Ls occupational and personal pensions into his Avalon 
SIPP and investments in unregulated funds. He was in breach of Principle 2 and COBS 
9.2.1R, and therefore so was Abana.
I find Mr Ls testimony from 2015  plausible and persuasive. And I think its of note that Abana  
has never made the case that the transfer  of Mr Ls occupational and personal pensions was 
a suitable outcome. Rather, Abanas  response to this Service  has largely  focussed  on why it 
wasnt responsible  for what had happened, and how it was the fault of other parties.  
Abana has largely failed to engage  with the merits of this case,  despite  clear evidence of the 
relationship it had with Mr F. I wont rehearse the arguments already made in my decision, 
but Ive concluded that Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana with its actual authority to deal 
in pensions and arrange SIPPs.
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Ref: DRN295906025Mr L says he cant  recall  completing an assessment of his risk attitude with Mr F in 2014. But 
he says Mr F told him that by transferring his pensions to a SIPP  far more  income could  be 
available by investing in a new suite of funds. At no point was it mentioned these would be 
held offshore in non-regulated investments.
Theres no evidence Mr L was an experienced or sophisticated investor  quite the reverse. 
A small  amount of care and due diligence wouldve exposed  the transfer of his pension 
funds to the Avalon SIPP and investment in unregulated funds as inappropriate.
Mr F was the lead actor in advising on and arranging Mr Ls SIPP and the unregulated  
investments made through it using Abanas  FCA authorisation. Its more  likely than not he 
had a hand in transmitting  the necessary applications. In doing so, he led Avalon  to believe 
Mr L had been  advised on the transaction and that this activity was done with Abanas  
authority.
In doing all this, Mr F wouldve been aware  Mr L was being exposed  to significant risks in the 
investments he was arranging. He wouldve known  unregulated funds could be Illiquid, 
meaning Mr L might have difficulty getting access to his money. The funds were highly 
specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And they were subject to 
valuation uncertainty.
Im satisfied that Mr F didnt  act honestly,  fairly and professionally, and in accordance with 
Mr Ts best interests  in relation to designated  investment business he was carrying out. He 
breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible for his acts and 
omissions.
To conclude  I dont think the transfer  of Mr Ls occupational and personal pensions  into the 
Avalon SIPP  and unregulated investments with the Kijani and SAMAIF  funds  could sensibly 
be regarded as fair to him. As such I think Mr F, as Abanas agent, failed to meet  the 
regulatory requirements Ive set out when providing him advice and making arrangements 
for the transaction.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold 
this complaint against Abana, and for Abana to put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ls case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Abana responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mr L wouldve transferred funds from 
his occupational and personal  pension plans into the Avalon SIPP and high-risk unregulated 
investments, and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial  loss hes experienced.  I also 
think he wouldnt have incurred the scale of fees he did.
That said,  Mr L appears to have had several reasons for accessing  some of his pension 
benefits early, including important work/life  objectives.  He also wanted  TFC.  Although his 
former pensions offered  guarantees,  protections and flexibilities, from what Ive seen there  
couldve been restrictions and penalties applied if hed tried to achieve his objectives prior to 
the normal retirement age for these schemes  which was 65.
Ref: DRN295906026Im also mindful that Mr L did manage  to take further  substantial  income  from his SIPP  
during 2016 and 2017.
So, in arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh  all of these matters.
I require Abana Unipessoal Lda needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mr L has suffered as a result of making  the transfer
(a)  In relation to his occupational pension scheme
Abana should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the Pension Review  methodology, 
as amended by the FCA in October 2017.  A figure  should be derived up to the date of 
calculation. And this should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions 
published.
Abana will need to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions to obtain Mr Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include any SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
(b) In relation to his personal pension plan which  included certain  Section 32 protections  and 
guarantees
(b1) Abana  should obtain the notional value of Mr Ls previous personal pension  plan,  as at 
the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt  been transferred to the Avalon SIPP. It will need  to 
obtain the value of the plan as invested.  If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional  
valuation then the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return Index) should be used as Im 
satisfied thats  a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr Ls 
pension had remained invested in his previous pension.
(b2) Abana  must also obtain the minimum value of Mr Ls personal pension plan as provided 
for with his Section 32 guarantees and protections, as these wouldve applied  at the date of 
calculation. So, again as if it hadnt been transferred to the Avalon SIPP.
Abana must  use the higher figure resulting  from the calculations at (b1) or (b2) in its redress 
settlement.
Abana will then have the total notional value for Mr Ls previous pensions (a+b). It should 
then find the current  value of his SIPP, including  investments and any cash held. Concerning 
the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Mr L took tax-free cash in 2014 and drew down  significant income in successive years. 
There may also have been  additional contributions  to account for. After confirming the 
detailed position,  then the value  Abana obtains or the calculations Abana  makes can 
assume these adjustments would still have occurred  and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Ls 
former occupational and personal pensions and the current value of his SIPP  will be his 
basic financial loss that Abana needs  to redress.
Ref: DRN2959060272. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mr Ls SIPP and avoid ongoing fees,  the investments  need  to be crystallised. To do 
this Abana  should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing  to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments  and Abana can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance, where  Abana  has 
compensated Mr L fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide  an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Ls SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax 
If compensation is paid into Mr Ls SIPP, payment should allow for the effect  of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed stayed in his original 
occupational and personal  pension  schemes.
If paying compensation into Mr Ls SIPP  would  conflict with any existing  protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on his investments, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr L is a basic  rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would reduce the amount payable 
(after any allowance  for tax-free cash),  equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax.
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Ls SIPP, and it remains open  after compensation 
has been paid,  Abana  should  pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of future fees.  This 
should allow  enough time for the issues with the investments  to be dealt with, and for them  
to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr L should then have the option  of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
Ref: DRN2959060285. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr L has been caused upset as a result of Abanas  actions.  The sudden loss of a 
substantial element of his pension fund would have come as a shock  to him and has clearly 
had a significant impact. In recognition of this it should pay his £500 for the trouble and upset 
hes experienced. 
putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as set out 
above (steps  1-5). My decision is that Abana  Unipessoal  Lda should pay Mr L the amount 
produced by those  calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations of fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Abana Unipessoal Lda pays Mr L the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Abana  Unipessoal Lda 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr L can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for any balance. Mr L may want to get independent  legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. I require Abana  
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of Mr Ls acceptance  of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2959060