K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the way XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited 
(XL Catlin)  handled  their travel insurance claim.  
background
Mr H made  a claim on his travel insurance policy on 17 January 2019, after having a fall in 
Spain and being admitted  into hospital. XL Catlin began  considering  Mr Hs claim. But on 
21 January 2019  XL Catlin received a further update  from Mr Hs hospital,  advising them  that 
he needed an operation and one had been  scheduled for the morning of 23 January 2019. 
XL Catlin requested further medical evidence from Mr Hs GP to support their consideration 
of Mr Hs claim. But that evidence wasnt received until late on 22 January 2019, meaning 
that XL Catlin werent able to review  it before Mr Hs operation  was due the following 
morning and couldnt confirm a coverage decision because of that. So the hospital cancelled  
Mr Hs operation. 
Mr and Mrs H decided to pay a deposit to the hospital themselves  to secure the rebooking of 
Mr Hs operation. The operation went ahead shortly  afterwards,  and Mr H was eventually  
able to travel  home to the UK. 
On 5 February 2019, XL Catlin confirmed  their coverage decision and went  on to pay Mr Hs 
claim. But Mr and Mrs H complained about what  had happened, and said XL Catlin  had 
delayed Mr Hs operation  which  had led to him suffering for longer than need  be.
XL Catlin didnt think they had caused  any delay though.  And they explained theyd been 
unable to confirm  cover for surgery at the time because theyd only been  given  two days  
notice of the operation, and because theyd only received  the required medical evidence 
from Mr Hs GP the day before the operation was originally scheduled to take place.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and referred  their concerns  to this service.  On initial review, our 
investigator agreed that XL Catlin  had only been notified of Mr Hs operation two days  before 
it was due to take place.  And, because the medical information XL Catlin  had requested was 
only received late the day before the scheduled operation, our investigator didnt think  it was 
unreasonable of them  not to have had the opportunity to review it and confirm  a cover 
decision. So our investigator didnt hold XL Catlin  responsible for Mr Hs operation  not going 
ahead on the date originally scheduled, and recommended  that Mr Hs complaint not be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  and reiterated their concerns, so our investigator took another  look 
at things. 
On second review, our investigator felt that XL Catlin had actually  had enough information 
from 25 January 2019 to have been  able to tell Mr and Mrs H that the operation  would be 
covered. Coincidently, that was the same  date that Mr and Mrs H had paid a deposit to 
secure the operation. So our investigator thought  Mr and Mrs H had been caused 
unnecessary trouble  and upset from 25 January until 5 February 2019, when XL Catlin 
confirmed coverage,  and recommended £250 compensation to reflect that. 
Ref: DRN29716222Mr and Mrs H didnt think that £250  was enough  to compensate them  for what  had 
happened though. And XL Catlin didnt think that any compensation was due. So as no 
agreement was reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have presented their complaint in detail and I thank them for taking the time to 
do so. My findings however, will only focus on those matters I consider central to the 
outcome of this complaint. That means I might not address every  point  or argument thats 
been raised, and I trust that wont  be perceived as a matter of discourtesy.  
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidelines, XL Catlin are required to consider 
claims promptly and fairly,  and mustnt reject them unreasonably. In this case,  XL Catlin 
have already accepted Mr Hs claim.  But Mr and Mrs H have ongoing concerns that 
coverage for Mr Hs surgery wasnt confirmed promptly enough and this caused Mr H to 
suffer for longer  than necessary.
When an insurer is asked to provide cover  for something, such  as an operation like XL Catlin  
were here, it isnt unreasonable or unusual for them to want to consider  different pieces of 
information before deciding  whether cover  is available.  That is what XL Catlin did in this 
case. But, unfortunately, the medical  information theyd requested  was only received the day 
before Mr Hs operation  was due to take place. 
I can see that since they requested it, XL Catlin had been proactively chasing the information 
that was outstanding up until the point that it arrived. And so given the limited amount of time 
they then had to review  that information, Im not persuaded that I can fairly conclude  
XL Catlin were reasonably in a position to confirm coverage for Mr Hs operation  at that time.  
Therefore I dont think XL Catlin delayed Mr Hs surgery or caused  him unnecessary  
suffering. 
However, I can see that confirmation  to cover Mr Hs surgery was received by XL Catlin  
internally on 25 January 2019. Considerations surrounding wider aspects of Mr Hs coverage 
under the policy  were  still being established amongst XL Catlin at this point. But I agree with 
our investigator here, in that XL Catlin knew they would  be covering Mr H for surgery from 
25 January 2019  onwards. 
Mr and Mrs H had been in regular contact with XL Catlin prior to being  told of the decision to 
provide cover. But despite XL Catlin seeming to have accepted theyd be covering Mr H for 
surgery by 25 January 2019,  they didnt advise they would be doing  so until 5 February 2019 
 around eight days after Mr and Mrs H paid a deposit to secure  the rebooking of the 
operation.
I accept that XL Catlin were still making  decisions  on further elements of Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim, but based  on the available evidence it is apparent that a decision to cover  surgery  had 
been made. So I think more could have  been  done  to alleviate the worry and uncertainty 
Mr and Mrs H would  have been experiencing during  this at time  given  theyd had to fund 
the initial costs  of Mr Hs operation themselves.  So for these reasons, I am upholding 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN29716223In order to recognise the trouble and upset that XL Catlin caused from 25 January to 
5 February 2019,  I am going to award compensation. That award needs to be a fair and 
proportionate reflection  of the impact  XL Catlins  delay had. And for the reasons given above 
I think the £250 recommended by our investigator does that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. XL Catlin Insurance  Company  UK Limited  
should pay £250 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2020.
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2971622