K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) did after he made a claim on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mr M has travel insurance with UKI provided  as a benefit of a bank account. In November  
2017 he booked  to travel  abroad the following January. Prior to travelling  in January he saw 
his GP. The appointment was to discuss some  routine issues  but also night sweats and a 
cough Mr M had been suffering from. The GPs notes  from the time say further investigation  
was required including  blood tests and a chest  X ray. Mr M told the GP hed be travelling 
abroad in two days; the notes say advised of the importance of not delaying  and it was 
agreed Mr M would  either change his travel plans or have the issue  looked at while he was 
away.  
In fact Mr M had the tests  carried out the following day and travelled as planned. Around a 
week after he arrived he spoke to his GP who had the results of his test and advised him to 
go to hospital  for further investigation. UKIs notes say later that day Mr Ms wife called to 
say hed been admitted to a private hospital  with suspected pneumonia and a chest  CT scan 
was required.  UKI confirmed that it would pay for the scan but the position on further  
treatment cost would depend on information  from Mr Ms GP. Mr M was discharged from the 
private hospital after having the CT scan and attended  a public hospital for bloods  tests  the 
following day (and stayed  overnight). 
UKI requested information from Mr Ms GP but there were issues over whether the payment 
had been received. It didnt receive a response  until 7 February. Mr M returned  home  on 11 
February. UKI turned  down the claim he made  because it said the policy excludes claims 
relating to pre-existing conditions and the costs Mr M had incurred while abroad were related 
to this. Mr M brought the complaint to us. 
I asked UKI to clarify  why the claim had been turned down because the section of the policy  
it had referenced talked  about treatment or investigation that was taking place at the time of 
booking a trip. And it didnt appear that Mr M had been under investigation at the time of 
booking his trip in November  as he didnt see his doctor until the following January. 
In response UKI accepted the claim had been  wrongly turned down and Mr Ms situation  
didnt meet the policy definition of an anticipated  event. It confirmed the costs hed incurred 
would be reimbursed in line with the policy terms. And it agreed  with my recommendation 
that it pay him £350 to recognise  the unnecessary distress and inconvenience hed been 
caused. 
Mr M was pleased  the claim was to be paid but didnt think the proposed compensation 
properly reflected the distress hed been caused.  In summary he said:
UKI didnt properly communicate  with him while he was abroad, for example it didnt 
provide clear information over whether he was fit to fly home and didnt offer to provide 
support with additional costs he incurred;
UKIs told him to get a blood  test from a public  hospital  when  he should have been given 
the option of having private treatment;
Ref: DRN25489572UKIs poor communication about  the reasons for the decline of his claim meant he had to 
pursue this with his doctor (amongst others) while he was unwell which  affected their 
relationship.
Mr M also queried what action would be taken against the staff at UKI who he believed had 
tried to prevent  his claim  being  paid on purpose.  So I need to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M was seriously unwell following his return to the UK and has ongoing  problems 
which I was sorry to hear about. But I was pleased to learn that his health has improved and 
I hope it continues  to do so. 
Turning to his complaint  against UKI Mr M believes action  should be taken against the 
individual members  of staff he had contact with. I know he thinks  they tried to prevent his 
claim being paid on purpose. But I havent seen clear evidence  of that. And it isnt something 
I need to decide in order to reach  a fair outcome on this complaint. UKI has accepted the 
wrong decision was reached and has agreed to pay Mr Ms claim in line with the policy 
terms. So the issue for me is what the impact  of not doing that earlier  has been on Mr M and 
what needs to be done to put that right.  
I can see that after UKI found  out about  Mr Ms admission to hospital  it confirmed it would  
pay for a recommended  CT scan but said further funding would be dependent on a review  of 
the medical information from his GP. UKI needed to satisfy itself the claim fell within his 
policy terms so I think  that was reasonable. I also think  it was reasonable of UKI to 
subsequently say Mr M needed a new blood test given a previous test indicated concerns 
about whether  he was fit to fly. Its notes say it offered to help arrange this if Mr M had 
difficulties in doing so and his policy doesnt say it will cover the cost of private treatment  in 
these circumstances.  
However, it appears there was some delay  in sending a consent  form to his GP and I think  
UKI could  have done more to resolve  issues over payment for this. I think if that had been  
done UKI would  have  been in a position  to confirm the outcome of Mr Ms claim at an earlier  
date. I also think there  were other customer service issues during this time  for example 
Mr M was promised  a call back to check on the outcome of an outpatient appointment on 1 
February which doesnt appear  to have taken place.  I accept that all of this will have caused 
him uncertainty at what would already have been  a difficult  time. 
In addition after he had returned home I understand Mr M became seriously unwell and was 
admitted to hospital.  And it was at that time he was informed by UKI that his claim had been  
declined. UKI has accepted that decision was incorrect and given his circumstances  I think 
its reasonable to say that would have  caused  unnecessary distress.  And I accept that Mr M 
was then put to further effort in following up points UKI had made  with his doctor. 
But Im also mindful of the fact that becoming unwell while  abroad  would have  been  
distressing for Mr M regardless of any failings on the part of UKI. And if Mr M believes hes 
incurred additional  costs during this time which should  be covered by his policy  then thats 
something he should tell UKI about so it can consider this as part of his claim. 
Ref: DRN25489573I also note that while  Mr M doesnt  appear  to have been given clear information  by UKI about 
whether he was fit to fly I dont think that led to him being abroad for significantly longer than 
would otherwise be the case. It appears the reason he didnt  return sooner was initially 
because he was happy to remain abroad  and subsequently because further tests were  being 
carried out as to whether he was fit to fly. Once those tests confirmed he was Mr M booked  
his own flight back. If Mr M believes hes incurred additional costs in relation to this flight  
which should be covered by his policy thats  something he may want to include as part of his 
claim. 
Taking all of that into account  I think a payment of £350 is a reasonable way of recognising 
the additional impact  on Mr M caused by what UKI got wrong. So in addition  to considering 
his claim it will need to pay that to him. I also feel that (and in line with our usual  approach)  if 
there are costs that should  have been  covered by the policy  which Mr M has paid himself 
then in addition  to reimbursing him for those  costs UKI should pay simple  interest at 8% on 
them from the date the claim should have been  paid until the date it actually is. 
my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. UKI will need to put things right by doing what Ive said 
in this decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2548957