K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Prudential Assurance  Company Limited about the advice he was given to 
purchase a Free Standing Additional Voluntary  Contributions (FSAVC) pension policy.
background
The advice was given  by a representative of a predecessor business,  but for ease  of reading 
Ill refer to Prudential  in this decision. 
Mr S is a lecturer  in a further education college and joined his occupational pension  scheme, 
the teachers pension  scheme (TPS)  in August 1993.  In 1996 a personal  friend  (Mr C) who 
was a representative of Prudential, recommended he start making  FSAVCs  to increase his 
retirement provision.  This was apparently because hed received a letter  explaining his 
occupational scheme benefits wouldnt be guaranteed if he retired after 2000. Mr S started  
an FSAVC plan making contributions of £25 per month, increasing  5% per year, into the 
with-profits fund, with the intention of retiring early  at age 55. In 1998  Mr S wrote to 
Prudential to increase  his monthly contributions by £10.
Mr S has remained with the same employer,  getting promoted over the years. And in 2019 
he attended a pension workshop which led him to believe hed been badly advised, so he 
complained. 
Prudential upheld the complaint as it thought the advisor should have pointed  out the higher 
charges with FSAVCs  compared to AVCs in his occupational scheme,  and so it made  an 
offer of compensation to Mr S of around  £745 on that basis. But Mr S thought hed have  
been better off purchasing added years  in the TPS, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. Mr S believes his financial loss is far greater as hes lost out on the contributions his 
employer would have  made to the AVC plan which could be more than 20%, and tax relief 
on his contributions. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and asked both parties about the letter  
which appeared to be the basis for recommending the FSAVC.  She couldnt envisage  why 
such a letter would have  been issued given the security of a public sector pension. But no 
copy has been retained. And having  reviewed Mr Ss circumstances at the time she thought 
it likely  purchasing added years would have appealed  to Mr S had he known he could. So 
she recommended  Prudential should resolve  the complaint  on that basis.
Mr S accepted the outcome  she reached,  but Prudential objected, saying the absence of a 
copy of the letter doesnt mean it hadnt  existed at the time.  After all Mr S signed the 
advisors recommendation  where  this letter was mentioned. And just because  Mr S thinks 
hed have been better off with added years  in hindsight, that doesnt mean he would have 
chosen them  at the time.  Purchasing extra years was mentioned  in the recommendation 
which shows they and AVCs were discussed  with Mr S. And he would have had the scheme 
booklet which hed joined only three years previously.  
So the complaints  been passed  to me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN26761642my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it, for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator. But I think its finely balanced, so Ill explain 
why.
I agree  with the investigator it would be helpful to know more about  the letter Mr S 
apparently received which prompted  concerns about the TPS. Mr S cant now recall the 
letter and theres no copy on Prudentials file. More than 20 years  has passed since the 
advice was given  and businesses arent obliged to keep information forever  so its not 
unusual for limited evidence to be available. But I can see that before Mr C was permitted to 
send his reasons  why  letter to Mr S it had to pass Prudentials compliance check. So Id 
have expected a copy to have been retained in order for this check to take place. And like 
the investigator I find it puzzling such a letter would have been issued. The TPS is financially 
backed by government so its almost  inconceivable that members  in 1996 would be warned 
their benefits  wouldnt  be guaranteed beyond 2000, only four years  later.  If such a letter had 
been issued it presumably would affect a large number of scheme members and Ive seen 
no evidence widespread concerns were raised  about the TPS. I cant  completely rule out its 
existence, as Prudential has highlighted, Mr S did sign the advisors one-page 
recommendation where this letter is mentioned. So if it wasnt the basis  for the discussion Mr 
S just had with Mr C, its surprising he signed the letter  without querying  its contents. But in 
any case I think the advisor would have known  public  sector  schemes like the TPS are 
secure, and should  have  reassured Mr S on this point.  I think its likely Mr S would still have 
wished to top-up his pension provision in some  way, particularly if he was hoping to retire 
early. 
The recommendation refers to Mr S being  a friend  of the advisor  and Mr S says he knew  Mr 
C through a club they both belonged to at the time.  He recalls Mr C brought up the subject of 
Mr Ss pension  over a drink and mentioned  he worked in financial services.  Mr S says Mr C 
described his pension as totally  inadequate and he could do better  elsewhere  and take 
advantage of the government topping it up through PIRAS (meaning the tax relief  on 
pension contributions).  Mr S wouldnt be able to take his occupational scheme  benefits  
before age 60, so the advisor said the FSAVC  policy could be written to age 55. Mr S says at 
the time he hadnt  been in the UK for long (hes  from another European country)  and so 
didnt understand  our financial system.  So although he hadnt  worried about his pension 
before, being  relatively young,  he trusted  Mr C and relied on his professional  advice and 
judgement. Although this all happened a long time ago, Im persuaded by Mr Ss 
recollections. 
Even though  Mr C approached Mr S as a friend,  he was still professionally required to act in 
his clients best interest.  And as the advice was given after May 1996 Mr C was bound  to 
follow guidance from the then regulator, the Personal Investment Authority (PIA), which 
clarified previous  guidance issued by LAUTRO (the regulator  before PIA) in relation to 
AVCs and FSAVCs. But Mr C wasnt an independent  advisor, he was an appointed 
representative of the predecessor business  of Prudential so could only recommend its own 
products. As AVCs (and added years) are part of the TPS, he wouldnt have been able to 
discuss these in any detail. But he was obliged to (among other things) explain the 
difference in charges between FSAVCs  and in-house AVCs and to refer Mr S to his in-house  
scheme to find out more  about the options available to him. But he first needed to carry out 
an assessment of Mr Ss financial circumstances  before making  a recommendation. So Ive 
looked at the information  recorded at the time. 
Ref: DRN26761643Mr C completed  a personal  financial review for Mr S which showed at the time of the 
advice he was 25, married and in good  health,  with one dependent child. And he had three 
years service as a college lecturer, earning £17,000. He gave his chosen retirement age as 
50/60 and thought hed need about 90% of his income to live on in retirement. He was 
making pension  contributions  of 6% of his salary with his employer contributing 8.05% and 
hed contracted  out of SERPS. Mr C calculated  that based on the projected  benefits of his 
occupational scheme,  Mr S had a pension shortfall of almost  £30,000 allowing for inflation. I 
think this figure was sufficient to alarm  Mr S and make him receptive to the advice of a 
professional advisor  he considered to be a trustworthy friend. 
The hand-written note records  Mr Ss attitude  to risk (ATR) as cautious/balanced  and that 
he wishes  his pension  provision to be as secure  as possible which  was the basis for 
recommending the with-profits fund. The recommendation letter  does mention that Mr S 
could make in-house AVCs or purchase extra  years  but doing so was discounted due to 
worries about the main  scheme and the predecessor of Prudential  was recommended as 
they have such a good reputation in this area. But Ive seen nothing  to show  Mr S was 
given any information  about the comparative charges for FSAVCs  compared to the in-house 
options.  The only reference to charges is a section of the suitability letter entitled How 
much will the advice  cost  which shows Mr Cs firm received £231.92 at the start of the policy 
and £0.82 each month from month  28 to the end of the policy and a proportionate amount 
each time the premiums  increase.  
I think its unlikely the usual benefits  attributed  to FSAVCs (portability and fund choice) would 
have appealed to Mr S, as he could continue his membership of the TPS even if he worked 
in different learning establishments  over his career. And his cautious ATR and desire  for a 
high level of pension  security are factors which count against opting for FSAVCs or in-house 
AVCs as both involve some risk. So Ive considered whether Mr S would have opted to 
purchase added years  in his occupational  scheme  if the advisor had suggested he explore 
this route.   
As the investigator  has explained, Mr C couldnt  have discussed  the features of Mr Ss 
occupational scheme,  but he should  have advised  him to contact the TPS and find out what  
options were open to him before making a decision. This would also have given Mr S the 
opportunity to satisfy  himself further  about  the security of his occupational  scheme.  The cost 
of added years was set by the government actuary and is based on rather conservative 
assumptions compared to AVCs  or FSAVCs which is why they appear  more expensive for 
the presumed investment growth. Although purchasing added years  required Mr S to agree 
to contribute a fixed percentage  of his salary,  the certainty may have suited his cautious  
approach. After all he did commit to the 5% annual increase in contributions, which is similar  
to the rate he might expect his salary to increase over time. And the spousal  benefits 
available may have appealed, given he already had a wife and small child who depended on 
him financially. Based on Mr Ss retirement  date at age 60 in June 2031,  hed have a 
potential of 38 years pension contributions from 1993. So to complete the maximum 40 
years contributions Mr S could have purchased an additional two added years  which  would 
have cost him around 20% for each extra year spread  over the term. In 1996 Mr S was 35 
years away  from retirement age, so hed have had that long to spread  the additional cost, 
although unusually  the TPS allowed him to opt for a shorter term if he wished. The higher  
cost and percentage commitment at quite an early  stage  in someones career  is what  often 
dissuades people from opting for added  years. But I think its likely Mr S would have been 
interested in the advantages, given his secure  employment with the potential for promotion, 
his family  commitments and his desire for pension security. Our investigator calculated  that 
Ref: DRN26761644had Mr S opted to purchase added years in 1996 at the contribution level he was making, 
hed have finished paying for them after 16 years (so by 2012) after which  time he could 
have started contributions to the in-house  AVC offered by the TPS. And doing so this would 
balance his desire for a secure pension  with the potential for growth based on contributions 
he found affordable.  
Mr C said paying into FSAVCs would  increase  the amount of TFC available to Mr S, as 
although FSAVCs  themselves  dont provide an entitlement to TFC they would enable him to 
opt for more TFC from his occupational scheme as they would replace the pension 
foregone in the main scheme.  But this is also incorrect  as the TPS scheme  rules  provide for 
TFC in addition to pension not by way of commutation (surrender). So purchasing  added  
years in the TPS scheme would have increased  Mr Ss entitlement to TFC at retirement not 
reduced it. 
I can however reassure Mr S about  the other ways he feels  hes missed out. Firstly at the 
time his employer would not have intended to make additional contributions to his pension 
whether he opted  for in-house  AVCs  or added  years. The recent information he provided 
showing the increased level of employer contributions  was to the main scheme and only 
because the employee contribution rate was only 6%. The contribution  rate to buy one 
added year was much  higher than this, which is why they wouldve appeared expensive  at 
the time.  And secondly  he hasnt missed  out on PIRAS (tax relief) as any kind of pension  
contribution is subject to tax relief, so his contributions to his FSAVC would have been 
grossed up. 
So in summary I uphold this complaint as I think Mr S would have  opted  to purchase added  
years in his occupational scheme in 1996  had he been given the right advice and 
information. The advisor had already identified that Mr S wanted  his pension  to be as secure  
as possible, didnt want to take risk, and had dependents. And he was in a position to dispel 
any confusion about the security  of the main  pension scheme caused by the letter Mr S 
received.
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr S as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. Prudential  must undertake  a 
redress calculation for the maximum number  of added years  Mr S could have  purchased in 
line with the regulators  pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct  
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision using the most  recent  
financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ss acceptance of the decision. 
For any further contributions Mr S made  to his FSAVC which exceeded the amount  he would 
have been required  to pay for the maximum added years (above), Prudential must assume 
these would have  been paid to his employers in-house AVC scheme and carry out a 
charges only calculation in line with the FSAVC review guidance.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN26761645If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement.  Mr S has 
confirmed hes currently a standard rate taxpayer, so presumed to be 20%. So making a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr S 
within 90 days of the date Prudential receives  notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Prudential to pay Mr S this compensation
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Prudential  Assurance  Company Limited  should  resolve  this 
complaint as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2676164