K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 3 December 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold. I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send 
me  so long as I received it by 17 December 2019.
Halifax didnt add anything further.  Mr and Mrs B pointed to a condition in their mortgage 
offer which they felt meant the PPI was compulsory.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, and for the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs B have  pointed to a condition on their mortgage offer,  and I appreciate why they 
thought it mightve  been significant. It said that because Mr and Mrs B had asked to borrow  
more than Halifax would normally lend, in order to get the amount they asked for they had to 
pay for a guarantee from an insurance company.
To clarify, this wouldve  been a mortgage  indemnity  guarantee, which  would help protect 
Halifax in case it had to repossess  and sell the property. While  I can understand why Mr and 
Mrs B thought this condition might be relevant, Im afraid its not. The guarantee was not PPI 
or an alternative to PPI. As I said in my provisional  decision, the PPI was not a condition of 
getting their mortgage.  And Ive not found any other reason to say that the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN25463972COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 1991. Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium,  which didnt  attract  interest. It covered  them  both in case either of them was 
off work  sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was almost three decades  ago, so understandably neither  side still have the original 
application from the time.  Mr and Mrs B dont remember choosing PPI, though I also think thats 
understandable given just how long ago this sale was, and since buying insurance  is not often  
memorable. Ive thought carefully about  whats most  likely  to have happened based on the limited 
information I have.
It would have  been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs B into having PPI, 
such as by telling them they had to have it. But I have no evidence which  shows thats what Halifax 
did here. Nor have I seen  any wider problems  with Halifaxs sales process from the time.  And this sale 
was too long ago for me to reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce original documents  to 
defend itself now.  Further,  the PPI was not listed as a condition in Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer.  So 
I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude  that Halifax  misled Mr and Mrs B here. I think  its more  
likely that it followed a relatively standard sales process, gave them a choice, and that they chose PPI 
at the time  even if, understandably, they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, or not. The requirements  were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs B, Ive assumed  it did. That means 
Halifax had to check the policy was right for them  and based on what  Ive seen  of their 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs B were  eligible for the 
cover and werent affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs B said they got good  benefits  through work. But the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of those  
benefits, and it wouldve covered them  more comprehensively. For example, Mr and Mrs Bs sick pay 
reduced to just a fraction  of their normal pay after 6 months, whereas the PPI covered  them  for up to 
24 months in any one sickness claim.  They also had other policies in place, but those covered  
different things and werent alternatives to PPI. And they only had very limited savings.
Ref: DRN25463973I understand Mr and Mrs Bs family  may have  been  willing to help, but there was always the chance 
theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility, not 
anyone elses. I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Halifax to have advised them  to rely on other 
people to pay it. Ultimately,  the mortgage  was a significant, long-term commitment,  and if Mr and 
Mrs B had fallen behind on the payments, they couldve  lost their home. It looks like the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Understandably, neither  side can show me what was discussed when the PPI was applied  for, since it 
was so long ago. So its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B about  PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The question, then,  is whether  I think better  information was likely  to have 
changed their minds.  But as I explained above, it looks like Mr and Mrs B werent affected by any of 
the main things the policy  didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for them  in case  something 
went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs B could  cancel it at any 
time without a penalty.  Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put them  off 
taking out the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Please could  Mr and Mrs B and Halifax  send me any more information  or comments to look at by 17 
December 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546397