K821x#15complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the cash settlement Ageas Insurance  Limited  (Ageas)  has paid in 
settlement of a home insurance  claim he made  for damage to his property caused by a fire. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2020  explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
Mr R was carrying out significant renovations to his property in 2017. In March 2017 
there was a fire so Mr R raised  a claim through his home insurance. His insurer, 
Ageas, appointed a loss adjuster and a firm of surveyors to assist  in the validation of 
the claim.  
Ageas says Mr R wasnt able to provide a detailed  scope  or schedule of the 
renovation works being undertaken. The property was also deemed  unsafe to enter 
following the fire. Due to these issues, it says it was difficult  to properly assess  the 
extent of the renovation at the date of loss.
Ageas firm of surveyors attended  the property, as well as a surveyor appointed by 
Mr R (via his loss assessor). They identified what works had likely been completed at 
the time of the fire and created an estimate  for the costs of reinstating the property to 
that point. This came  to around  £308,000.  Ageas assessed the estimate and 
concluded that it was too high. It offered £288,000 as a cash  settlement offer, 
including all professional fees. It also agreed  to cover the cost of demolishing  the 
post fire property as it had been  deemed  unsafe. This came to £18,800,  less the 
£100 policy excess.
Mr R didnt accept this offer. Through  his loss assessor, he arranged for three 
companies to tender  for the works.  The three tenders came back  at significantly more  
than Ageas offer  the lowest of which was priced at around  £440,000. 
Ageas didnt agree to the tender  before  it took place. It also argued  that the tender 
process was a desktop exercise and that reinstatement was never intended. 
Because of this it said the tenders were overpriced. But it asked its surveyor to 
review the tender results, liaise  with the loss assessor and revisit  his estimate. 
Having done so, Ageas surveyor said:
The firm who supplied  the lowest tender confirmed that because the property 
had been demolished  its prices  had been  based  on average rates and certain  
assumptions. When pricing  in this way it is usual  for a contractor to build in 
some costs  to reflect risk into their price.
The tender  included costs for a formal JCT contract, despite Mr R being 
happy that the significant renovation works  were  being undertaken on a much  
more informal basis.
Ref: DRN24885622The tender  is unusual because the contractor is being asked to partially  
rebuild the property. In reality,  its difficult and confusing to price  in this way 
because some elements will need to be completed out of sequence. And it 
would be difficult for them  to separate their preliminary costs such  as site set 
up and welfare, from that of a full rebuild.
The firm were based 55 miles away from Mr R, so their quote included  
additional travel/hotel/sustenance costs.
The priced tender is largely hypothetical as if they were appointed to carry out 
the works a new schedule would be produced  for the total re-build. There is 
little to no chance that the firm would be asked to complete  the works at their 
tendered costs and therefore they are unlikely to have considered the costs in 
as much detail as if this was a genuine competitive tender.
Priced competitive tenders reflect the appetite of the current market  and 
volume of work of the particular  contractor.  The BCIS estimate he completed 
removes this but is based on estimates. 
Ultimately,  Ageas surveyor stated there is no perfect way to determine  the 
reinstatement costs due to the above factors.  But he and Mr Rs surveyor  
agreed that the true reinstatement cost lay somewhere between his estimate 
and the lowest  tender.
Following the review of the tenders and Mr R providing further invoices, Ageas 
surveyor increased his estimate to around  £357,000. Ageas considered  this, but still 
felt it was too high.  It increased its cash settlement offer to £350,000. 
Mr R doesnt agree that Ageas cash settlement is sufficient. He feels  Ageas should 
meet the cost of the lowest  tender. Ageas disagrees. It states  the amount it has paid 
is sufficient to put Mr Rs property back in the position he can evidence  it was in at 
the time of loss.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service where  it was looked at by one our 
investigators. She thought  Ageas offer was fair in the circumstances. She said 
Ageas has the right to take over settlement of the claim. And that it can request 
receipts/proof of works carried  out at the time of loss. She said Ageas was prepared  
to reconsider the amount  it offered  if Mr R could provide evidence he had spent more 
on the renovation  before  the fire, than Ageas  has already  paid him in settlement of 
his claim.
Mr R provided  a great number of receipts which our investigator considered. But she 
didnt think they were sufficient to show what  works had been completed at the time 
of the fire. She said the evidence didnt show that Mr R had spent more  than the 
amount that Ageas  had already paid him. So she still thought the offer was fair.
Mr R remained  unhappy with our investigators  assessment.  He says the invoices will 
never add up to the amount he has been  paid by Ageas so far because  he was 
carrying out a renovation.  But he now needs to rebuild the property from scratch 
which will cost more than the renovation.  
Ref: DRN24885623Because no agreement has been reached  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ageas has the right to take over the settlement of any claim under the terms and 
conditions of Mr Rs policy. This means it is for Ageas to decide  whether to settle Mr 
Rs claim by repair,  replacement,  reinstatement or cash.
In this case Ageas says that reinstatement was never an option as Mr R cannot 
show, with any degree of certainty,  what the pre-loss  condition  of the property was. 
Because of this it said it would only consider a cash settlement. In situations  like this, 
where an insurer is only prepared to offer a cash settlement, our service usually says 
its fair that any cash offer should reflect the cost to the consumer of having the works 
completed.
With any settlement option, it remains Mr Rs responsibility to prove  his loss so that 
Ageas can validate  his claim. In this case, that means it is for Mr R to show how 
much of the renovation work had been  completed  on his property before the fire took 
place and what was lost in the fire. Mr R hasnt been able to provide a detailed scope 
or schedule  of works for the renovation, to show the level of completion at the date of 
loss. But despite  this, Ageas has accepted  the claim and reached  a cash  offer after 
instructing a surveyor and negotiating with Mr R and his loss assessor.
Mr Rs main concern is that he obtained three  independent  tenders  for the works  
required to reinstate the property to its pre-loss condition. He feels Ageas should  
meet the cost of the lowest  tender. He says that Ageas surveyor  didnt enter the 
property when completing his estimate whereas his loss assessors surveyor  did. 
And his surveyor created  the specification of works  which was used as the basis for 
the tenders.  
Mr Rs policy  terms state that a tender can be used as a basis for a cash  settlement 
offer, in certain circumstances. But the terms only commit to Ageas paying the most 
competitive estimate  from a tender if it is lower than the amount it would cost its 
nominated contractor to do the work.  Ageas says its surveyors estimate represents 
the cost for which its contractor could do the work. But as explained above, where an 
insurer isnt prepared to provide a contractor to complete  the works, our service 
usually says its fair that any cash offer should reflect the cost to the consumer of 
having the works completed.
Ive thought very carefully about the arguments and evidence put forward by both 
sides here. Like Ageas,  I dont want to get too involved in each individual item that 
has been disputed. Instead  Ive focused  on what I believe  to be the key issue  
namely, should Ageas increase its offer in light of the tender process.
Ref: DRN24885624Ageas says the settlement  amount  it came  to isnt something that has been 
individually itemised, because Mr R hasnt been  able to provide enough  evidence  for 
it to do so. It doesnt agree that all of the items included in its surveyors estimate 
were necessary, such as replacement of the foundations. It also says that some of 
the items  included in the estimate were based on information given  by Mr R  which  
hasnt been evidenced. 
I sympathise with Ageas here. Having reviewed all of the available evidence I agree 
that its not possible to say exactly  what condition  the property was in at the time of 
the fire. And I do think Ageas has tried to be helpful  by instructing a surveyor and 
entering into negotiations with Mr Rs loss assessor to reach a cash settlement 
figure. But, from what Ive seen, Im currently minded  to uphold Mr Rs complaint in 
part and to direct  Ageas to increase its cash settlement offer.
I say this because,  as Ive mentioned above, there have  been two on site surveys 
completed, one from Ageas surveyor and one from Mr Rs. The notes Ive seen, from 
Ageas surveyor, indicate that the estimates created were broadly  in line with one 
another. Following  this, three independent firms of contractors assessed the 
schedule created by Mr Rs surveyors and quoted for the works   all of which  were 
priced significantly higher  than Ageas  estimate.  So, based on this I dont think  
Ageas offer,  which  is lower than even its own surveyors estimate, is fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.
After negotiations between Ageas surveyor and Mr Rs, each revised the amounts 
on their respective estimates.  This took Ageas to £357,261 plus VAT, and the lowest 
tender to £443,206 plus VAT.  Both surveyors were in agreement  that the true repair  
cost would lie somewhere between these two figures. But Ageas surveyor said it 
was impossible to identify and isolate the costs, for the reasons covered in the bullet  
points above.  
Both surveyors are experts in their field, and both attended the property and had 
discussions with Mr R. While I accept that some  elements of the estimates were 
based on information from Mr R which hasnt been  specifically evidenced, the 
surveyors were  clearly  persuaded by what they saw and were told. As the surveyors 
felt these items were  most likely in place at the time of loss, I see no fair reason to 
discount their expert view.  
That being  said,  Ageas  has argued that the foundations, which  were  included in its 
surveyors estimate, didnt need  replacing.  It said although the fire was dramatic it 
should not have affected the foundations and no work in that regard would be 
needed if the building was rebuilt like for like. It said works undertaken to the house  
before the fire must have meant  that the existing foundations were  of a good  
standard to allow for the increase in building height  and therefore  it didnt  believe  
there would be any issue  with building regulations.
I think this argument  is persuasive. And I also note that Mr Rs surveyor didnt include 
any costs for replacing the foundations in his specification of works. So, I think its 
reasonable for Ageas to remove the foundation costs from the overall settlement. 
Once these costs have  been removed from Ageas estimate, I think  the fairest thing  to 
do is for Ageas to increase its cash settlement  offer and meet in the middle of its 
surveyors estimate and the lowest tender. 
Ref: DRN24885625I think a fair settlement, in respect of the works required, would be for Ageas to 
increase its total cash settlement offer to £385,000  by paying an additional 
£35,000. I think Ageas ought to have paid this amount to Mr R when it paid the 
additional £62,000 in September 2018.  So, Im also intending to add interest  to this 
amount, from that date until the date of settlement, to compensate  Mr R for being 
deprived of this money.
Mr R also feels  strongly  that Ageas should  pay towards alternative accommodation 
while his property is uninhabitable due to the fire. Ageas says it didnt consider that 
alternative accommodation should  be paid,  in the circumstances, because Mr R and 
his family  were not living in the property  at the time of the loss. 
Ive thought carefully about the arguments from both sides  here. I think Ageas 
position in respect  of alternative accommodation,  for the period it would have taken 
Mr R to finish the renovation, is a reasonable one  because Mr R would always  
have incurred these  costs. But I think it could be argued that Ageas should  pay some  
alternative accommodation. I say this because the property will clearly take a lot 
longer to be habitable, having been  demolished as a result of the insured event, than 
it would  have otherwise done. And Mr Rs policy does allow  for alternative 
accommodation to be covered where  a property  is unfit to be lived in following an 
insured loss.
The three tenders  Mr R obtained  estimated  the time it would take to reinstate the 
property to its pre-loss condition. The estimates  varied from 22 to 60 weeks. The 
lowest priced tender estimated it would take nine months, and Mr Rs surveyor  felt 
this was the most reasonable  estimate.  So, I need to consider  whether it would be 
fair and reasonable for Ageas to pay for alternative  accommodation for some,  or all, 
of this period.
When considering  this, I think its also important to consider that some of the items 
included in both Ageas  surveyors  estimate and the tender havent been able to be 
specifically evidenced  by Mr R. And that during the claim, Mr R has made some 
statements I think are unlikely to be accurate. For example, that he was planning to 
reuse a kitchen which pictures show was being  stored outside at the mercy of the 
elements. This calls into question the reliability of some of the other  statements Mr R 
may have  made. So, I think its fair to say that Mr R is already benefitting from Ageas 
agreeing to cover these  items which havent been  specifically evidenced.
Taking these points into consideration, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to 
direct Ageas to cover the full nine months alternative accommodation. I think  it would 
be fair for it to pay for four months additional accommodation.
Mr Rs policy  covers additional costs of alternative accommodation, substantially the 
same as your existing accommodation. So, the amount Ageas pays should  be 
sufficient to cover Mr Rs rent in a sufficiently similar  property in the local area.  
In summary,  I think a fair settlement to Mr Rs complaint would be for Ageas to 
increase its cash settlement offer for the building works to £385,000  by paying an 
additional £35,000. I also think it should calculate and pay Mr R the equivalent value 
of four months alternative accommodation.
Ref: DRN24885626I said I was intending  to direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr R a further £35,000, plus 
interest from the date it paid him the final instalment of £62,000 until the date it paid the 
settlement. I also said I was intending to direct Ageas to calculate  the cost of four months  
alternative accommodation, in a similar  property, and pay this amount to Mr R. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision.
Neither side agreed with my provisional decision, and both provided further arguments for 
me to consider. To summarise, Mr R said:
The sums involved in his claim have been  life changing for him, so its not fair that 
myself or Ageas have  said we dont wish to get too involved in each  individual item
Ageas proposed offer doesnt  include several  items that it previously agreed to pay, 
such as a gas disconnection invoice and timber hoarding used to secure the site
He has spent £12,000 on surveyors fees which he wants  Ageas to reimburse under 
his policy. He says the loss adjuster initially included a sum equal  to 8.5% of the 
contract sum as a surveying fee, but this was later removed
Ageas proposed offer doesnt  include damage to his driveway. He says this was 
damaged by the fire and it now needs  to be dug up and replaced so that they can 
reconnect the gas and electric. He says this wouldnt have been necessary if not for 
the fire
Ageas proposed offer doesnt  include first and second floor walls, temporary 
staircases, electric meters, existing electrics,  existing  windows  and side gates  
which when combined amount  to a lot of money
He would like nine months alternative  accommodation paid, in line with the lowest 
tender
He has been  completely  honest  from the start of the claim and has provided any 
evidence that has been requested. He was going to reuse the kitchen stored outside, 
and in particular  the granite. The weather was good at the time and his builder was 
going to install it as soon as the floor was in
His policy provides  cover for inflation  protection. It has been  nearly  three years since 
the fire so even  a modest 3% per year will have a big impact on the pricing and he 
would like it to be considered 
And in response  to my provisional  decision, Ageas said:
My comments in respect of the difficulties in making  an accurate assessment of the 
claim are appreciated and it genuinely believes that a fair settlement of this claim had 
been paid
Ref: DRN24885627It understands the contractual points about  a settlement being based on tenders, but 
it challenges the independence of the tenders  as the companies were selected  by 
Mr Rs loss assessor with no input or prior agreement of Ageas. It also says all 
tenders were produced by the contractors in full knowledge  that reinstatement works 
werent going to proceed
Mr R hasnt received the full indemnity  payment it has made as he has had to pay his 
chosen loss assessor
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Both sides have put forward  several points for me to consider. For clarity, Ill address them 
separately.
response to Ageas points
I appreciate Ageas comments regarding the tender process that was carried  out. I agree  
that typically, all parties  would need  to agree to a tender taking  place and which contractors 
will be involved before  it is carried out. And I understand  that, that didnt happen  in this case.  
Its for these reasons  that I dont  believe  it would  be fair or reasonable to expect Ageas to 
meet the cost of the lowest  tender. But this doesnt  change my view that a fair settlement 
would fall between  Ageas  estimate  and the lowest tender  as suggested by both Ageas  
surveyor and Mr Rs loss assessor.
Ageas points out that Mr R has had to use some  of his indemnity payment  to pay his loss 
assessors fees. Its asked me to clarify whether the increased settlement Ive suggested  
includes expecting Ageas to pay Mr Rs loss assessors fees.
To answer  Ageass question, I dont expect it to pay for Mr Rs loss assessors fees. These 
are costs Mr R should cover, as it was his choice to engage the services of a loss assessor. 
The increase  in settlement I have recommended relates only to the indemnity payment. 
Neither Ageas  surveyor nor the tenders factored in costs to pay Mr Rs loss assessor. And 
as Ive mentioned  above, and in my provisional decision, both surveyors  felt the true value of 
repairs lay someway between the estimate  and the lowest  tender. 
After issuing my provisional  decision I realised  I hadnt correctly  calculated the mid-point 
between Ageas estimate and lowest tender. This was because  the lowest tender is 
exclusive of professional fees  which Ageas had included in its overall offer at 8% of the 
contract sum.  I explained  this to Ageas and informed it that, in line with the reasoning of my 
provisional decision, I was intending  to add 8% to the value of the lowest  tender before 
recalculating the midpoint between it and Ageas  estimate  less the cost of the foundations.  
This equates  to £57,600.
Ageas responded and reiterated its concern  with the tender process. It said the tenders were  
never agreed and it doesnt agree they truly represent reinstatement costs due to the 
unknown extent of works.
Ref: DRN24885628Ive thought carefully about this point,  and I dont fully disagree  with it. But if I thought the 
tenders had been previously agreed  by Ageas  and/or that they truly represented the 
accurate reinstatement  costs, I would be directing Ageas to meet the cost of the lowest  
tender. Because they dont and based  on the comments of Ageas own appointed surveyor,  I 
think the true reinstatement costs fall somewhere between  the lowest tender and Ageas 
estimate. 
So, taking everything  into account, I still think Ageas should increase its settlement to the 
mid-point between the lowest tender (including 8% fees) and its estimate  (less  foundation 
costs).
response to Mr Rs points
Mr R has raised  several points that relate  to items  he believes havent been  factored in to 
Ageas proposed offer. 
Im not going  to address  each of the individual items  Mr R believes  havent been factored in. 
This is because it seems Mr R is basing his opinion on what  is and isnt included in Ageas 
offer on the figures included on its surveyors estimate. But this estimate  isnt an itemised 
breakdown of everything Ageas has and hasnt considered. Ageas based its offer on 
considerations of that estimate, alongside  all of the other evidence available. And I have 
done the same when  reaching my provisional  decision and the increased settlement 
payment I suggested.
Mr R says he has provided  enough evidence to show the condition of the property  before  the 
fire. But although he has provided a lot of invoices to show the materials  he had purchased 
for the renovation, there is little to support which of these had or hadnt been fitted, or to 
support his assertions around the pre-existing utilities. For example, Mr R says there were 
pre-existing electrics in the property. But from what Ive seen, there  is no scope of schedule  
of work to support this. Also, the loss adjusters report, taken shortly after the fire, says that 
the whole  property had been  stripped  back to a shell prior to the renovations   which  
indicates there were  little to no electrics in situ at the time. 
Establishing the exact state of the property immediately before the fire was made even more 
difficult by the fact that the property was deemed too unsafe for Ageas surveyor to enter. 
So, he couldnt inspect  the interior of the property in as much  detail  as would be ideal. 
Ultimately, I dont think Mr R has been able to provide  enough clear  or persuasive evidence 
for Ageas or myself to be able to precisely  establish  the exact state the property was in at 
the time of the fire. I also note that the company who completed the lowest tender 
acknowledged the difficulties in correctly  identifying the works required when it said:
Please be advised  that as the building has been  demolished, our prices are based  
on average rates and having drawn certain assumptions regarding  specifications in 
line with the tender.
I have carefully considered everything  Mr R and Ageas have said and provided.  But its the 
evidence from Ageas surveyor and Mr Rs loss assessor which  I find the most  persuasive. 
Both Ageas and Mr Rs surveyors visited the property and engaged with Mr R throughout the 
process. They each  reached broad agreement on the likely condition  of the property. Ageas 
surveyor provided an estimate, and Mr Rs provided  a scope to three companies who 
produced tenders.
Ref: DRN24885629Discussions later took place between Ageas surveyor and Mr Rs loss assessor.  
Concessions and additions were made  on both sides  and the amounts reviewed. Following 
this, both agreed that the likely cost of repairs lay between the two figures produced. So, 
although not all of the items Mr R has suggested were quoted on Ageas surveyors  
estimate, I have considered the evidence and arguments around  each of them when coming 
to my decision. And taking everything  into account I still think  fair settlement, in the 
circumstances of this case,  is for the settlement to be increased to halfway between Ageas 
estimate and the lowest tender. 
But now,  unlike in my provisional decision,  Im adding professional fees at 8% to the lowest  
tender, before calculating this amount. This is to take into account all of the professional 
fees, including architects,  structural  engineers, surveyors, project management etc.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr R has stated that his policy offers  protection  
against inflation. He would like me to add 3% per year to the increased  settlement. I should 
explain that the inflation protection Mr Rs policy provides  is to automatically uplift  the 
declared sums insured each year, to protect him from being underinsured.  It isnt designed 
to provide a higher claim settlement where  a settlement takes a long time to be paid. 
In my provisional decision I said Ageas shouldve paid this increased settlement along with 
the £62,000 it paid in September 2018.  Because it didnt, I also recommended  that Ageas 
pay interest on the settlement at 8% simple per year from September  2018 to date of 
settlement. I think this interest  award,  along  with the additional  settlement is enough  to 
deliver a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Rs complaint. So, I dont think Ageas needs  to 
increase the settlement amount in line with inflation.
Finally, Mr R has asked  that I reconsider the amount I recommended  for alternative 
accommodation. Hes asked that I award  this for the full nine-month period that his lowest  
tender suggested  the works  would  take.  
As I explained in the above  section  (response  to Ageas points), I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to rely fully on a tender that was carried  out without the prior agreement  or 
involvement of the insurer. The settlement Ive recommended,  both for the repair works and 
alternative accommodation, is a compromise on both sides taking into account  the particular 
difficulties and circumstances  of the case.  And I maintain that the four months Ive suggested 
is fair and reasonable, taking into account  all of the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Rs 
complaint in part. Ageas Insurance Limited must:
Pay Mr R an additional £57,600
Pay interest on this amount  at 8% simple  per year from the date it paid the £62,000 
to the date of settlement
Calculate the cost of four months alternative accommodation, in a similar  property, 
and pay this amount  to Mr R. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Ref: DRN248856210Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2488562