K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the advice he was given  in 1993 from The Royal London Mutual  
Insurance Society Limited  (RL) to transfer his occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits 
to RL. He believes  he has been  disadvantaged by this transfer. 
 
background
In 1999 RL offered to review the transfer of Mr Rs OPS  benefits. This was a result of an 
industry wide review of OPS transfers and opt-outs mandated by the regulator (the 
Personal Investment  Authority). RL subsequent carried out a calculation  and informed Mr R 
that he had not suffered a loss, so it would not be taking any further  action. It said that Mr R 
could refer the matter  to the ombudsman if he was dissatisfied. 
In 2005 Mr R raised concerns with the transfer again. RL referred  to its findings of 1999  
that it had calculated that he had not suffered a loss. It also said that Mr R was aware of 
these issues since 1999 and could have referred  any concerns to the ombudsman  at this 
time. It thought Mr R had complained too late. 
It would seem that Mr R did refer a complaint to this service at this point as there is a letter 
from RL to this service in 2006 acknowledging  that a complaint  had been  made.  
Mr R contacted RL again  in 2018  about his concerns with the transfer. RL said that the 
transfer had been reviewed correctly  in 1999 and it would  not be taking further  action. 
Mr R referred  his complaint to this service and it was considered by an adjudicator.  Although 
he did not think the complaint was time barred he thought RL had acted correctly in 
reviewing the transfer in 1999. He did not believe that it should  review the transfer  again  or 
the issue should be considered again. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R asked that his case  be referred  to an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the assessment issued  by the adjudicator,  RL has confirmed that it no longer 
requires the issue  of jurisdiction to be considered. 
I have noted that a referral to this service  of Mr Rs concerns appears to have been made in 
2005/2006. I would not normally  consider  a complaint about the same  issue  that has been  
considered by this service  in 2005/2006. However  as it is unclear what  happened  at this 
point I have gone on to consider the merits of the complaint.
As the adjudicator discussed, RL undertook  a review of Mr Rs transfer from his OPS in 
1999. RL calculated that Mr R had not been  disadvantaged and had made  a gain at that 
time. Having  considered  that review I have no reason to believe it was not carried out 
correctly. Having therefore carried out the review in line with the guidance issued by the 
industry regulator the time, I am satisfied that Royal London has acted correctly  in the 
circumstances. I am not persuaded that it now should review  the matter  again.  
Ref: DRN22822532my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2282253