K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that a fixed sum loan agreement was mis-sold to her by 
Hunt Management Limited, trading as Top Gear Car Sales.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss S in April 2015 under a credit agreement with a credit 
provider for which  the car dealer, Top Gear Car Sales, acted  as a credit  broker. Miss S 
understood that she had a conditional  sale agreement with the credit  provider but when she 
tried to return the car she was told that shed entered into a fixed  sum loan agreement so 
couldnt return the car. She complained to Top Gear Car but wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Top Gear  Car Sales 
said that a proposal  for a conditional sale agreement was initially agreed by the credit  
provider but the settlement figure provided  by Miss S was incorrect  and when  the proposal 
was resubmitted  the credit  provider proposed a fixed sum loan agreement  which  was 
agreed. And it provided a signed copy of the fixed sum loan agreement. The investigator  
was satisfied that Miss S entered into a fixed sum loan agreement and that she didnt have 
the option to return the car. And Top Gear Car Sales has offered to pay £250 to Miss S to 
alleviate any hardship thats shes been  caused.  
Miss S has asked for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
the signed agreement has suddenly appeared but the dealer has been  asked to 
produce it since the beginning of this dispute;
her signature on the agreement could be a fake or copied and scanned;
the conditional sale agreement says that she can hand the car back after a specified 
amount is paid;
she feels that shes been mis-sold the car; and
instead of an insulting offer to pay her £250 Top Gear Car Sales should pay-off the 
debt thats occurred for being so slack.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Top Gear Car Sales says that its reviewed its file and Miss S had a car to part exchange  
and a proposal for a conditional sale agreement was initially  agreed with the credit provider 
but Miss S then provided the correct settlement figure which  gave a negative  equity position.
It says that the proposal was resubmitted  to the credit provider which accepted  the 
application on the basis of a fixed sum loan agreement which was explained to Miss S and 
she signed the agreement.
It says that it keeps documents dating  back that far in a separate  storage lock-up which it 
searched to find the signed agreement. It says that it then found the signed agreement which 
it provided to this service.
The signed  agreement is a fixed sum loan agreement  that was signed in April 2015.The  
credit intermediary is shown as being  Key Motor  Finance  which is another trading name of 
Ref: DRN29601922Hunt Management Limited. The dealer has previously supplied the pre-contract credit  
information that it says was also provided  to Miss S and which  is consistent  with the terms of 
the agreement. The total amount  of credit is shown on the agreement as being  £7,276.25 
which is consistent with the details shown  on the sales proposal  form and Miss S was to 
make 60 monthly payments of £161.96.
The unsigned conditional  sale agreement that Miss S has provided  shows that the total 
amount of credit was £6,831.30 and that she was to make 59 monthly payments of £152.32 
with a final payment  of £341.32.
Miss S has provided a copy of her August 2015  bank  statement which  shows that she paid 
£161.96 to the credit  provider  which is the monthly  payment  under the fixed  sum loan 
agreement. Ive seen no evidence to show that shes been making the payments of £152.32 
that wouldve  been payable under the conditional sale agreement.  
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that her signature on the fixed sum 
loan agreement has been faked or copied.  And I consider it to be more likely  than not that 
Miss S did sign and agree to the fixed sum loan agreement and that the car was sold to her 
on that basis. As the car had been sold to her (the purchase of which she financed  using the 
fixed sum loan agreement) she had no right to return the car. That right wouldve been 
available to her in certain circumstances if the car had been supplied  to her under a 
conditional sale agreement. 
So Im not persuaded that the fixed sum loan agreement  was mis-sold to Miss S. And I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  Top Gear Car 
Sales to pay any money to Miss S to compensate her for not being  able to return the car  or 
to take any other action  in response to her complaint. Top Gear Car Sales has offered to pay 
£250 to Miss S as a goodwill gesture. If she now wants to accept that offer I suggest  that she 
contacts Top Gear Car Sales.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2960192