K822xcomplaint
Mr O complains about Abbey Life Assurance  Company Limiteds  advice to take out a life 
insurance policy. He says he didnt need life cover because, at the time, he was single with 
no dependents. 
Mr and Mrs O complain about Abbey  Life Assurance Company Limiteds advice to surrender 
two endowment policies and take out a new one. They say they only wanted additional 
critical illness cover.
Mr and Mrs O have asked us look at both complaints in this decision.
background 
Mr Os complaint
Mr O took out a whole-of-life policy in 1985  and surrendered it in 2000. He complained, 
through a representative, in 2018.
Abbey agreed  the advice wasnt right for Mr O. It offered to refund the first 12 months 
premiums. It said Mr O had a partner after that and so needed the insurance.
Later, after our adjudicator contacted  it, Abbey agreed to refund  all the premiums  with a 
return linked  to the Bank of England base rate. 
Mr Os representative was happy with the outcome, but thought the rate of return should be 
higher.
Mr and Mrs Os complaint
In 1992 Mr and Mrs O wanted to move  house. Their existing property was in negative equity, 
meaning the amount they could sell it for was less than they owed on their mortgage.
They already  had three endowment policies  and, after advice from Abbey, they surrendered  
two of these and took out a new one to cover £45,000 of a new £60,000 mortgage. 
The adviser recorded at the time that Mr and Mrs Os immediate requirement was to 
rationalise their life assurance and endowment portfolio in order  that they may a) continue  
with the necessary amount of cover and b) release any available capital.
The adviser also wrote that Mr and Mrs O are aware that cancelling existing policies is not 
best advice but this approach suits their immediate requirements and that other  
alternatives were discussed but their decision was to surrender the existing  endowments.
The new policy  was surrendered in 2000 when Mr and Mrs O changed to a repayment 
mortgage. They complained, through their representative, in 2018.  
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that, given their circumstances at the 
time and what the adviser had told them, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs Os representative didnt agree. It said the unit-linked endowment policy  was too 
risky for Mr and Mrs O.
Ref: DRN28998292The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of these  complaints.
Mr Os complaint
Abbey has agreed  to refund  the premiums. All I need to decide is what would be a fair rate of 
return on those premiums.  
I understand why Mr Os representative  has asked for more.  We have a general approach to 
redress in this sort of case, but its always subject  to the individual  circumstances of the case  
and what the ombudsman thinks is fair. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  The policy was taken out before financial  services were 
regulated. Not surprisingly, theres  little information about why Mr O met the adviser or what 
he was looking for. All I really have to go on is that Mr O has said that if he hadnt  taken out 
this policy  hed have  saved for my future.
Mr O was young and his representative  says he had no commitments.  The premium was 
relatively modest. Im not persuaded Mr O would have set up a formal savings or investment 
plan. I think it more  likely that hed have simply saved the premiums without risk, in a bank 
or deposit account. So I think the redress suggested by our adjudicator is fair in this 
particular case.
Mr and Mrs Os complaint
I dont uphold this complaint.  I agree  with our adjudicator for the same reasons he has 
explained. 
Mr and Mrs Os representative says that in 1992  they were  only interested in taking out 
additional critical illness cover. I think thats unlikely. They were borrowing money to move 
house and also had to cover the negative equity in their current house.  I think its likely they 
were, as the notes suggest, looking to release capital so they could borrow  less.
Usually it wouldnt be considered good advice to replace one policy or policies with another.  
But Im satisfied from the information Ive seen that the adviser discussed this with 
Mr and Mrs O and came up with an approach  that suited their needs  at the time. Its also the 
case that the new policy included critical illness cover and the old policies didnt.
Mr and Mrs Os representative has said that a policy investing in a unit-linked managed  fund 
was too risky for them.  Again  I understand why it might say that. But Mr and Mrs O had had 
similar policies  in the past, were still relatively  young and had a reasonable disposable 
income. The mortgage was due to end well before  their retirement.  On balance I think they 
were willing and able to take the risk and that the policy was suitable for them.
Ref: DRN28998293my final decision
Abbey Life Assurance  Company Limited  must  pay Mr O compensation calculated as set out 
in our adjudicators letter  of 9 August 2018.
I dont uphold the separate complaint brought by Mr and Mrs O.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 February  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2899829