K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the way Aviva  Insurance Limited has settled a number of claims 
shes made on her home insurance policy.
background
Between 2009 and 2012, Miss M made four claims on her home  insurance policy for various 
items, including a damaged laptop, camera, a stolen pen and jewellery. Aviva accepted the 
claims and made offers to settle the items Miss M has claimed for. 
In 2017, Miss M complained to this service that her claims hadnt been resolved  with 
satisfactory offers, despite her raising  them a number of years ago. She explained  shed 
faced a number  of health issues  over the years  and had been  dealing with very difficult 
family matters during  this time. 
It wasnt until 2020 this service was able to look into a complaint for Miss M. Our investigator 
found that in 2016, Aviva  had collated all of the offers from the various  claims into one letter.  
As they were all separate  claims, Aviva explained each claim would be paid minus  the policy 
excess. Aviva said that for most of the items being claimed for, Miss M hadnt been able to 
provide any documentation from the purchase to help with valuation. It also said some items, 
such as a parker pen had been discontinued. So for items such as those, it used market 
research to come up with the offers.
When Aviva  looked into the claims again  in 2016, it did increase the market value of those 
items to reflect the replacement  cost in 2016. To settle the claim for all of Miss Ms items it 
offered around  £3,600 for all of the items, net of policy excesses.
Miss M has said shed sent her laptop and camera to Aviva and it had lost them, she 
maintains shed like a replacement for both, or a cash offer that represents  the current 
market value. Shes concerned Aviva are trying to put her claims together in order  to pay her 
less money than shes owed.
When our investigator looked  into the complaint, Aviva offered an additional  £250  for any 
distress or inconvenience caused to Miss M for not having the laptop and camera for an 
extended period  of time. Our investigator thought Aviva had made  reasonable offers for the 
items given  the evidence  it had. She didnt  think it was possible to replace the camera,  and 
said it was fair for Aviva to use the 2016  figures to settle the claim, even if the laptop was 
now worth  more than in 2016.   
Miss M didnt agree. She said the laptop was now worth over £2,000. Shes said shell 
accept a replacement  of the camera and the laptop (that are new and not refurbished). Shes 
also said she doesnt think  everything  shes claimed for has been  considered  in the offers. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, it has come to me to decide.  Since  the complaint has 
been referred to me, Aviva has issued  a payment to Miss M for part of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN26153542Under Miss Ms policy, Aviva has the right settle  claims in a number of ways  including 
replacing an item or providing  a cash settlement.
Its been a number of years since the claims for the camera and the laptop  were made. So 
some of the correspondence from the original claim is now unavailable. I understand this will 
be upsetting for Miss M to hear, but there  are rules  businesses  need to follow around 
retaining information and the length  of time it keeps documents.  So its not unreasonable  
that some  of the original correspondence  hasnt  been provided  to this service.
Miss Ms policy says that for successful claims,  replacement will be on a like for like basis. 
Ive been provided  with the letter Aviva sent to Miss M in 2016. This says she was offered a 
replacement camera, but Miss M declined  it as she didnt think it was a suitable replacement. 
The particular brand of camera which Miss M had doesnt appear to be sold on the high-
street anymore. And I cant find any evidence to suggest its still manufactured.  But I have 
seen on second  hand websites that this camera is available to buy. Aviva settled on a cash  
offer of around  £390 for the camera, less the policy excess. Based on what  Ive seen on 
second-hand websites, this is a fair offer. So Im satisfied Avivas offer for the camera was 
reasonable. 
Miss M has asked for a new replacement laptop as the brand she has now sells laptops for 
around £2,000  and Aviva has offered her £1,900, less the policy  excess. Aviva has a 
number of options available to it to resolve  the claim. In 2016 Aviva looked  at the current 
retail value of a laptop similar to the make and model and increased its offer to match this. I 
think this was reasonable for Aviva to do and would have enabled Miss M to replace her 
laptop in 2016. 
I cant see that she asked  Aviva for a replacement rather than the cash  offer at the time. But 
even if she did, Aviva can choose to cash settle  a claim if it wants  to. So overall I havent 
seen anything which makes me think its offer is unfair. Whilst the laptop may be more 
expensive based  on todays current prices, it wouldnt be fair to ask Aviva  to increase its 
offer as Im satisfied it made  a reasonable one in 2016. 
There are several other items covered by other claims, such as stolen cash,  a purse  and a 
parker pen. Based on the information Aviva had in 2016, I havent seen anything to suggest 
the amounts offered are unfair. I appreciate a lot of time has passed,  but Miss M hasnt been 
able to provide  anything  which suggests  the amounts  are too low. So it doesnt  need to offer 
anymore to settle the claims.
Miss M has said she doesnt think all of the things she claimed  for are covered. Shes sent 
us her diary  notes from the relevant years.  Having  looked at those notes, I cant see 
anything mentioned that isnt accounted for in the offers Aviva has provided. So Im satisfied 
Aviva has made offers for all the items  Miss M raised with it.
I understand Miss M has had many difficulties  with hers and her familys health over the last 
few years.  I want to reassure her that Im satisfied Aviva has acted fairly in trying to resolve 
her claims. In 2016, it put all of the offers into one letter, Im satisfied this was to help move  
the claims forward for her, not to try and pay her less money than she was entitled  to. 
Ref: DRN26153543These claims have gone on for a long time, and Miss M has said shes lost income as a 
result of not having  some of these items. Aviva has offered  £250  for any unnecessary 
inconvenience its caused Miss M, Im not going to ask them  to pay anymore than that. Im 
satisfied the offers it made in 2016  were fair and reasonable, and whilst I acknowledge 
Miss Ms health issues, I dont think Aviva  are responsible for delays in settling  the claim 
after 2016. 
In total, Aviva has offered £3,666, net of the policy excesses to resolve the claims. Aviva has 
already sent Miss M a cheque for part of her claim.  To settle the rest it should issue the 
remaining payments.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited  needs to pay £3,666  to settle  the claim, less 
any amounts already  paid. It should also pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience  
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2615354