K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) service in 
connection with a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to AA includes its agents.
background
Mr Rs car was damaged  and had parts stolen from it. He contacted AA for it to arrange 
repairs. AA wasn't able to arrange for the car to be delivered to its approved  repairer that 
day, a Friday, but said it would collect his car and deliver it to the repairer on the Monday. 
That didnt happen and on he Monday AA rang Mr R to ask where  the car was, even though  
it had taken it to a storage facility.
The car still hadn't been delivered  to the repairer  the next day, Tuesday, so AA said it would 
arrange a hire car. That wasn't delivered  to Mr R until Thursday afternoon. Mr R complained. 
He said that as hes self-employed his business  lost revenue while he was waiting at home 
for a car. AA acknowledged  that it hadn't got everything right and offered Mr R £100  
compensation.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator thought AA had done enough to put things 
right. Mr R didn't agree so his complaint's  been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr R has made  a number  of points  and I've considered  everything  
hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key outstanding 
points.
Mr Rs policy  entitles him to a courtesy  car while his car is being repaired. And in this case 
AA said it would deliver his car to the repairer on the Monday after it was damaged. So, Mr R 
could have expected to receive the courtesy car then. Its clear that because of internal 
miscommunication with AA his car wasnt delivered  to the repairer promptly.  And to make 
matters worse AA rang Mr R to see if he knew where his car was. That was clearly 
inappropriate as AA had collected it and it could have easily found out where the car was.
But the car wasn't then delivered  to the repairer on the Tuesday either. This clearly  wasn't  
acceptable. To try to put things right AA said it would arrange a hire car. But for reasons that 
arent clear that car wasn't  delivered until the Thursday afternoon. That mean that Mr R had 
spent much of the week without a car.
Mr Rs said that AA had told him to wait at home to arrange the car to be delivered. It seems  
likely that Mr R would have waited  in on the Monday as AA had told him that a car would  be 
delivered then. So, I can understand that he would have been frustrated that that didn't 
happen especially  as he didn't receive  a courtesy  car until the Thursday. 
Mr Rs said that because  AA had told him to sit at home and wait he couldnt  work for a 
number of days. And hes estimated that this caused  him losses  of up to £1,626.  And he 
Ref: DRN21126432thinks AA should  pay him compensation in the region of £2,500. AA has offered £100. The 
losses Mr R has claimed are significant. He was clearly prepared to accept that loss for one 
day while he waited for a courtesy  car on the Monday. But where  such  significant sums are 
involved, I would have expected him to take action to reduce any further loss. Mr Rs policy  
entitles him to a small class A courtesy  car. Those are readily available to hire at a cost of 
anywhere between  £25 and £60 a day. And if Mr R felt that he was likely to be in a position  
where waiting for a courtesy car could cost him in the region of £400 a day, then I would 
have expected him to take other action to reduce that loss. That could have included  telling 
AA he couldnt  wait in and that he would hire a car himself or take taxis etc. But it appears  
that Mr R didnt do so.
Also, we asked Mr R to show  us evidence of his loss but he hasnt provided  us with evidence  
that AA caused  him losses. And I think  the £100  compensation AA has offered to address 
Mr Rs distress and inconvenience is fair, as its in line with awards wed make  in other cases  
of similar  seriousness. So, I dont think its fair to award anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2112643