K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased with finance  from BMW  
Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS). 
background
In June 2016 Mr T was supplied with a new car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The purchase price was £29,310  and the term of the agreement  was 36 
months.
In June 2018 Mr T visited the supplying dealer to discuss  part exchanging his car for a new 
one with the intention of taking the car to Jersey where he was relocating in a few weeks 
time. Mr T agreed  a part exchange deal but shortly afterwards the car broke down and was 
returned to the supplying  dealer. The issues with the car related to the starter  motor and the 
gearbox.
Mr T was told that the car would need to be repaired before he could proceed with a part 
exchange. Mr T wasnt happy about this because he had ordered  his new car on the 
understanding that he could part exchange his car before he moved to Jersey  in August 
2018.
In July 2018 Mr T received a recall  letter  relating to the starter motor  on the model of car 
which he had left with the garage  for repair. 
The repairs  took approximately 16 weeks because  a part had to be ordered  from Germany.  
They were  completed at the end of September 2018.
Mr T wasnt provided with a courtesy  car during the time it took for the car to be repaired. He 
relocated to Jersey in August 2018  and had to return to the UK to collect the car at the end 
of September  when  the repairs were completed. He didnt proceed with the part exchange.
Mr T complained to BMWFS and said he wanted to reject the car. In its final response 
BMWFS said there  was no evidence that the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Mr T wasnt happy with BMWFSs response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said she didnt think the car was of satisfactory 
quality because some  of the major  component parts had failed within  two years.  She said Mr 
T should  be allowed to reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said it hadnt  been  made  aware of any issues  with the car until 2 
years after the point of supply.  It also said a recall letter wasnt evidence of a manufacturing  
defect.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24153022Because BMWFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement theres an implied  
term that its of satisfactory quality.  Satisfactory is what a  reasonable person would regard 
as acceptable  taking into account factors such as the price paid, fitness for purposes,  
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
brand new car, such as that supplied to Mr T, to be of a very high standard  as compared to a 
used car where  I would expect to see a degree of wear and tear.
I can see that the faults with Mr Ts car related  to the gearbox.  The starter  motor was also 
repaired. These faults occurred when the car was approximately 2 years old and had 
covered mileage of approximately  16,700.  The repairs  which were carried  out included the 
fitting of a new gearbox and the replacement of the starter motor. The starter motor was 
replaced as part of a recall  issued by the manufacturer in July 2018  relating to this particular  
model of car.
Where a fault arises  within the first 6 months, its generally up to the business to put things 
right. After  6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its for the consumer to show  that 
the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.
In this case, the faults with the gearbox  and starter motor didnt present themselves until the 
car was approximately 2 years old. Ive taken account of what  BMWFS  has said about these 
not being point of supply  faults. However,  under the Consumer Rights Act, I need to consider 
all elements of satisfactory  quality,  including factors such as durability.
This is a prestige  make of car which cost almost  £30,000. Taking into account the price, as 
well as the age and mileage of the car, I dont think a reasonable person would expect to 
replace a major  component part such as the gearbox after 2 years.  I dont think the gearbox 
was durable, which  means the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
In relation to the recall, and whilst Ive noted  BMWFSs comments that a recall doesnt 
necessarily mean that there is a fault with every car, I can see that in this case  Mr T 
experienced a fault with the starter motor before the recall letter was issued. I think its more  
likely than not that the starter motor on Mr Ts car was defective.  As Ive already said, I dont 
think a reasonable  person would expect  to replace a part such as this on a car of this age 
and mileage. 
On balance, and taking all of the available  information  into account, Im persuaded that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Although the business is allowed one opportunity to repair 
the car, I think the repairs in this case took an unreasonable  length of time, and this is all the 
more unreasonable given  that Mr T had made it clear that he was relocating  abroad  in mid 
August 2018.  In the circumstances I dont  think its fair to expect Mr T to have waited so long 
for the repairs to be completed. Once  it was clear  to the business  that the repairs couldnt be 
completed within a reasonable time,  Mr T shouldve been allowed to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited must:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr T.
Refund Mr T his deposit  together with simple interest of 8% per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund Mr T his monthly payments from June  2018 until the end of the agreement
Remove any adverse  information from Mr Ts credit file
Ref: DRN24153023Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2415302