K820x#14complaint
Ms S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Ms S bought a monthly premium PPI policy in February 1999 at the same  time as taking out 
a credit card. The card and policy were more likely than not applied for during a meeting. 
The card and insurance ended in or before May 2005.
Ms S says the policy was mis-sold to her. She says she would not normally have taken the 
policy as she was self employed. She says the PPI was forced on her and the application 
was filled in by bank staff. Ms S also adds that she was unemployed for a period  before  she 
took out the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Although both parties cant  be sure where the policy was sold, after looking at the sales  
documentation and reading through what has been said I think it is more  likely than not the 
PPI policy  was sold in one of Lloyds branches. So I will proceed that this was the case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ss complaint for the following  reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Ms S when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor during a meeting.  But Ive looked at sales documentation and 
considered what  I know  of Lloyds branch sales at that time. I consider it is more likely 
than not she was advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect her card 
repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. It says Yes,  I wish to take out card 
payment protection.  I can see the box has been  ticked  next to this statement and Ms S 
has signed the application agreeing to all that has been ticked within it. I havent been 
able to see any evidence  that anything different happened in this sale. I do acknowledge 
what Ms S has said about how the policy was forced on her but memories  do fade over 
time. Ms Ss recollections  have not persuaded me on this occasion that she wasnt given 
a choice to have it. So on balance, as I have  already concluded, I think Ms S was aware 
of the insurance  and was given a choice in the meeting.
From  what I know of branch sales at that time, I think Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to 
Ms S. So it needed to ensure the policy was suitable for her. But it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Ms S based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. 
Ref: DRN20498472I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to her if she 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment.  Any claim could have been paid for up to 
12 months and would have provided her with income at a difficult  time. Ms S didnt have 
any sick pay so I think the policy recommended  to Ms S would have been of use and so 
I cannot conclude  that it would have  been  unsuitable for her based on what  I have seen. 
Ms S was self employed so I have  looked  at the policy document to see if there are any 
terms that would have made the policy unsuitable  for her. But there  isnt any term that I 
would consider would be onerous  for self employed people. There also arent any 
restrictions for periods  of unemployment before the date of sale that I can see. So I dont 
think the policy would have been unsuitable  for Ms S for this reason either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Ms S wouldve changed  her mind  about taking the policy  if this cost 
was presented clearly  to her during the meeting (for the same reasons why I think the 
policy is suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Ms S wouldve been affected by any of these,  due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
For the reasons  I have  already given,  I think the policy  was suitable for Ms S. So I dont 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2049847