K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander), Abbey National at the time of 
the sale, mis-sold them a monthly premium mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs A were  sold a MPPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or  
Mrs A were  off work sick or lost their job. The policy benefit was split so that if Mr A couldnt 
work, he would  receive 70% of total monthly benefit and if Mrs A couldnt work then the 
policy would pay 30% of the total monthly benefit.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs A didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs A were eligible under the policy. Based on, 
amongst other things,  Mr and Mrs As age, residence and employment at the time of the 
sale, Im satisfied they were eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs A that the MPPI was optional  and needed  their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account.  In summary,  Mr and Mrs A say they 
werent told PPI was optional and the representative told them they needed  to take PPI out 
to protect  their home.  They were first time buyers  and assumed they needed to take PPI to 
get the mortgage.
Of course I cant  be sure of what happened during  the sale and Santander no longer have 
the completed application form from the time of the sale.  So Ive thought carefully about what 
Mr and Mrs A and Santander have told us and looked to the other information and 
documents available from the time of the sale to help me decide what  is more likely to have  
happened.
Santander have  told us that MPPI wasnt a compulsory product. And as I understand it Mr 
and Mrs A would  have had to complete  a separate application form to take it out as well as a 
separate direct debit  mandate. 
Ive seen a copy  of the policy document,  the welcome letter  and schedule  of cover.  There  is 
nothing on these to indicate that MPPI  had to be taken out. In fact the words used indicate  
that these documents were sent out because Mr and Mrs A chose to take MPPI. Ive also 
Ref: DRN26829892seen a copy of the representatives letter explaining what products they had recommended.  
Again I note that this refers to Mr and Mrs A having  chosen to take PPI out. There  is 
nothing in this letter which implies that Mr and Mrs A had to take MPPI in order to get the 
mortgage. 
The representative may well have made  a strong  recommendation  to Mr and Mrs A for PPI, 
but there wouldnt necessarily have  been  anything wrong in that in itself as I havent seen 
sufficient evidence to conclude that the representative crossed the line between  making  a 
strong recommendation to, for example,  pressuring Mr and Mrs A into taking PPI.
All in all, while I appreciate what Mr and Mrs A have told us, I havent seen sufficient 
evidence to be able to conclude that its more likely that Mr and Mrs A werent made aware  
that the MPPI was optional or that they didnt choose to take it out. 
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs A to take MPPI. This means they had to check  it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
if the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs A but I do think the policy  was suitable  for them.  I 
say this because:
-Mr A has told us he would have been entitled to some sick pay, the policy would 
have paid out in addition  to this and for a much longer period of time.  Mrs A cant  
recall what her employee benefits  but given what she has told us about her role, I 
think the policy would have been suitable for her because it would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and again likely for a much longer period of time. The policy 
would also have  paid out if they lost their job/s. 
-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the policys  exclusions and restrictions 
would have affected Mr and Mrs A such that it would  have been  difficult  for them to 
make a successful claim under the policy if the need arose.
-Given what Ive seen  of the representatives recommendations, it appears to me the 
recommendation took into account  Mr and Mrs As financial circumstances and what 
would have been affordable to them at the time of the sale.  I havent  seen any 
evidence which would  suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs A at the 
time of the sale.
-Mr and Mrs A could  have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
-Ive also considered the way monthly  benefit  would have been  split between Mr and 
Mrs A. Given that Mr A was earning  more than Mrs A, I think  that the way the benefit 
was split between  them wasnt  unsuitable.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs A, Santander also had to give 
them clear  information  about the MPPI   in particular about the costs, benefits  and main  
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs A wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
Ref: DRN26829893So it follows  that I dont  think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs A this MPPI policy. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs A will be disappointed by this outcome, however, it is of course up to them  
whether or not they accept or reject  my decision.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs A also had issues with Santander opening up two complaint 
references for one complaint. This caused them confusion and Santander  continued to send 
documents under both complaint references even  after telling them that they had closed one 
of the references.  Santander acknowledge this and apologise for any inconvenience caused. 
I wont be asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2682989