K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about his mortgage with Santander  UK Plc. He says his interest rate is too 
high and he would like to switch from repayment  to interest only terms, or move to a cheaper 
interest rate, to reduce  his payments. But Santander  has refused his applications and says if 
he moves his mortgage he will be subject  to an early repayment  charge (ERC).
background
Mr As mortgage is on a fixed interest rate of 4.59%, and his fixed rate expires in September  
2019. Until then, if he moves elsewhere  or changes the interest  rate, he will have to pay an 
ERC. Mr A has had some difficulties in his personal  situation and  although hes not missed 
any mortgage payments   is finding  it hard to keep up. He would  like to reduce his monthly 
payments and has asked  Santander for assistance  several times.
Mr A rang Santander and asked if he could reduce his payments. Ive listened  to this call. 
The adviser he spoke  to discussed  with him what his payments would be if he switched to an 
interest only mortgage. Mr A agreed  that it wouldnt  be right to move  to interest only. The 
adviser explained that Mr A was tied in to his rate until September 2019. But he said Mr A 
should write to Santander explaining why he wanted  to change his rate and asking it to 
consider waiving the ERC. This wasnt something Mr A had considered  before this 
conversation. The adviser  suggested  Mr A argue his case as to why he should be allowed 
to move rate.
Santander considered Mr As situation.  It said Mr A agreed to a fixed  rate in 2014, which was 
the rate it had available  at the time.  It said the ERC  was chargeable until the end of the fixed 
rate term, and while rates had generally  fallen, that was always  a risk with a fixed  rate and 
not a reason to end the rate early. However, it said that after considering  Mr As particular 
circumstances, it would  agree to reduce  the ERC by 20% if Mr A decided  to move to a new 
fixed rate from Santanders current range. And it said the adviser shouldnt  have given Mr A 
the expectation that the ERC might be waived  it offered  him £50 compensation. 
Mr A didnt agree to that. He waited until he was approaching the end of the rate and then 
applied for a new fixed rate, 1.99%, to take effect  from September 2019 so that he doesnt 
have to pay an ERC. But he doesnt think it fair that Santander wouldnt let him move sooner 
without paying  an ERC.
Our investigator thought Santander had acted fairly.  Mr A didnt  agree.  He referred to a case  
hed seen in the press. And he asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision on his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the report of the case Mr A refers to. Its difficult  to be sure of all the facts  from 
a press report, and every  case depends on its own facts. But it appears to me that case  is 
about the refusal of a porting application,  which is a completely different situation  to the one 
that arises here. Ill decide this case on its own facts.
Ref: DRN25896992Mr A took his mortgage out in 2014.  It was a new application at that point, and Santander 
was recommended to Mr A by a broker. So any complaint about whether the mortgage was 
right for him will need to be taken up with the broker.
This complaint is about the action  Santander took in 2018 and 2019 when Mr A asked 
Santander to reduce  his payments. Mr A has said that he was struggling with the payments,  
especially since his freeholder increased  the service  charge on his flat  though its true to 
say that hes never missed a mortgage  payment (which is, of course, much to his credit) and 
has even managed to make some overpayments.
Where a fixed rate is taken out, theres usually an ERC. Thats  not just true of Santander, its 
also true of most mortgages. The loan agreement  allows the borrower to exit the fixed rate 
early  but only if they pay the ERC. The ERC  is designed to allow the lender to recover  its 
costs caused  by the early end of the rate (which include interest it will no longer receive and 
may also include losses on having to re-use the money on something else). So I dont think 
there was anything unfair about the mortgage  agreement itself.
A fixed rate acts as insurance against  changes in interest rates.  If rates rise, the lender cant  
ask the borrower  to pay more. But theres  a risk  as happened  here  that rates go the 
other way and the borrower ends up paying more than they would have done with a variable 
rate. To that extent,  Mr As been  unfortunate. With hindsight, I can understand why he 
wishes things were  different. But his mortgage has behaved as its supposed  to, and as Mr A 
agreed it would when he took it out.  
I wouldnt generally expect a lender to waive an ERC where a borrower wants to end the 
fixed rate early. I do think Santanders adviser, who spoke to Mr A, raised his expectations  
unnecessarily. It was the adviser  not Mr A  who suggested changing his rate, and who 
suggested that all Mr A needed to do was write a persuasive letter for Santander to agree. In 
fact, Santander  was very unlikely to agree to waive the ERC  and its not something I would 
generally expect  it to agree to.
However, in the particular  circumstances  of this case, it considered what Mr A said. And it 
took into account the misleading impression hed been given  by the adviser.  As a result,  it 
decided that it would, on an exceptional basis, waive 20% of the ERC if Mr A changed  his 
rate. And it offered  £50 compensation.
I think thats a fair offer. When a customer is given misleading information, I would generally 
expect a lender  to put it right by correcting the information, not by acting as if it were  true  
whilst also putting right any losses caused  by being misled.  Thats  what Santander  has done 
here. It corrected what the adviser  said. And it went further than that, by paying Mr A £50 
compensation and offering to waive some, but not all, of the ERC.  Mr A didnt take it up on 
that offer, but I think it was a fair one  and so I dont ask Santander to take any further  
action. Im pleased to see that Mr A has now been able to get a lower  rate, and I hope that 
makes his situation easier moving  forwards. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because I 
think Santander UK Plc has done  enough to put things right.
Ref: DRN25896993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2589699