K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited wouldnt give him 
proof of 15 years proof  of his No Claims Discount (NCD) at the end of his motor insurance  
policy year.  
background
Mr A had previously been insured with another  company where the underwriter was also LV. 
He changed to LV with 14 years NCD and at the end of the year, LV said the maximum it 
allows is nine years and since Mr A didnt make  any claims, it confirmed he had nine years 
NCD. 
Mr A said that meant he couldnt avail of competitive quotes  from other  companies  who did 
recognise periods  of NCD beyond nine years. LV wouldnt change  its stance  so Mr A 
brought his complaint to us.
The adjudicator saw that Mr A had gone back to his previous provider  and LV was able to 
confirm that it was showing that he had 15 years NCD so he didnt think Mr A had actually 
suffered any loss so he didnt think LV had done anything wrong. Mr A disagreed  and so the 
adjudicator thought LV should have provided Mr A with a letter  stating he had come to it with 
14 years NCD  and didnt  make any claims.  As this caused Mr A some  inconvenience, LV 
should pay Mr A £50 compensation and provide such a letter.
LV disagreed so Mr As complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 December 2019 and I said the following:
LV has confirmed it only ever confirms a maximum of nine years NCD. This is how it 
treats all its customers, therefore  I dont think it did anything wrong is simply 
confirming Mr As maximum  NCD was nine years. Theres no reason for it to treat Mr 
A differently from any of its other  customers in my opinion. And indeed the 
regulations require it to treat all customers fairly  and not give one special treatment 
over the others.  Its also not unusual for insurers to limit NCD in this way and many  
other insurers limit it to a lower amount than LV does.
LV was also able to show us that the percentage discount it gives at its maximum 
was 79.9% whereas nine years at the other company was only 65% discount. Mr A 
believes the more  years accumulated means a larger discount but this isnt 
necessarily always the case  as can be seen from this. Much  depends  on what 
percentage an insurer attaches  to each year, rather than simply the accumulation  of 
years. 
As Mr A returned to his previous insurer after being  with LV, LV now cant be 
responsible for how that company now deals with NCD, despite the fact it is also the 
underwriter there. That other  company runs its own business and this complaint only 
concerns LV and the policy Mr A took out with it. 
LV was able to show us that this other  company was showing Mr As full NCD 
entitlement before his policy year ended. So that should have meant going forward 
Mr A regained his full number of years. If he didnt, then Mr A will need to complain to 
that company,  as it wouldnt concern  this policy, which LV provided.
Ref: DRN25137912Mr A didnt retain the necessary  information  to show he was significantly 
disadvantaged. He has shown the possibility of obtaining cheaper quotes  but the 
cheapness of those quotes  is also influenced  by other discount factors  such a new 
customer discounts and host of other issues, which each insurer changes all the time 
depending on various factors. 
Overall, I dont  consider  LV did anything wrong  in confirming Mr A attained  and 
retained its maximum NCD due the fact Mr A made no claims.
Neither Mr A nor LV responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I see no reason  to change it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, it my final decision that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2513791