K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that his fixed sum loan agreement for which  Chapel House Motor  Co ltd 
acted as credit broker was misrepresented. He wants compensation for the loss he says 
hes incurred due to the misrepresentation.
background
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a family member,  Mr J, but for ease of reading  Ill 
just refer to Mr D.
Mr D tells us that he purchased a vehicle from Chapel  House  in 2014 through  a finance 
agreement supplied by a company Ill refer to as B. He said he was told by Chapel House 
that at the end of the agreement he could either  return the vehicle  or make a final payment 
and keep the car. He said that towards the end of the period he decided  to return the vehicle 
and asked his daughter  to make the arrangements.  But he says she was informed the 
vehicle couldnt  be returned and the final payment of £4,825  had to be made. Mr D says hes 
suffered a loss as hes now part-exchanged  the vehicle for £3,000. But as he had to make 
the final payment  he feels hes lost £1,825.
Chapel House told us that Mr D had signed  the finance agreement  which  it said made  clear  
there was a final payment of £4,825 due at the end of the agreement. And so it wasnt able 
to uphold his complaint  that the agreement had been misrepresented. It said that one of its 
dealers - as a gesture  of goodwill - had tried to source a new vehicle so that the final cost 
could be absorbed within the purchase  price of that vehicle. But this hadnt proved possible.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the pre-
contractual information form had clearly stated the type of loan was a fixed sum loan 
agreement. And that Mr D had signed the finance agreement which had stated the nature of 
the loan and the repayments required. She thought that if there were any discrepancies in 
the agreement  Mr D should have raised  them before  signing.  And she didnt think Chapel 
House had done anything wrong.
Mr D didnt agree with this outcome and thought it was for the business to demonstrate  it 
had sold the finance correctly. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr D feels he was misled about the nature of the finance agreement. And I 
understand hed be disappointed  to find he couldnt  return the vehicle when hed thought this 
option would  be available  to him. 
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. And that includes taking into account documentary 
information as well as what  the parties tell us. And if I dont  specifically refer to an item of 
information, its not I havent  taken it on board its because I dont think  I need  to refer to it 
separately in order  to explain my decision.
Ref: DRN20100642Although I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account. And here Mr Ds complaint 
amounts to an allegation that the finance  agreement was misrepresented.  A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer into entering an 
agreement and - as a result of the misrepresentation - is caused loss. This also means that 
any statements made after the agreement has been  entered - such  as in later discussions 
about the termination of the agreement - cannot amount to a misrepresentation of the 
agreement.
In plain terms the basis of the complaint is the difference between what Mr D states he was 
told verbally by the sales agent and what was contained in the finance agreement. And as 
the disputed conversation took place over five years ago - in February 2014 - I wouldnt 
expect anyone to have more than a general  recollection of what  took place.
Ive no doubt that Mr D has given me a truthful account of what he remembers. And Im sure 
he believed  he was entering into an agreement which would permit the return  of the vehicle. 
As I understand it hed previously had finance agreements which allowed for this. But its by 
no means unusual  for parties to a conversation  each  to have a different recollection  of what  
was verbally stated or agreed.  And it would  be easy to make an assumption  that the type of 
agreement being  offered  was the same  as that which had previously been entered. 
I accept that many of us might find it tedious to read through  the terms and conditions of an 
agreement before signing it - particularly  so when we think we already know what  the 
contents are. But it does  offer an opportunity for mistakes to be corrected and potential 
misunderstandings to be avoided. Theres no doubt that Mr D signed  the finance  agreement 
which was clearly headed Fixed sum loan agreement. The pre-contract  credit information 
also included the fact that the finance agreement  was by way of a fixed sum loan. So it 
seems to me he was provided with sufficient information  to understand the nature of the 
loan. And if he didnt fully understand,  then Id have expected a query to be raised at the 
time. In those circumstances I dont  think the finance  agreement was misrepresented.
Ill deal briefly with other issues which have arisen during the complaint. Mr D has mentioned 
the agreement  doesnt specifically state the vehicle  couldnt be handed back. Or what  would 
happen if he didnt  make the final payment. And he feels  the onus should be on Chapel  
House to show the finance agreement  wasnt misrepresented.
Ive already explained the signed  agreement  is sufficient  information on which Chapel House 
can rely in respect  of the nature of the agreement entered. And as the loan was a fixed  sum 
loan - linked to the purchase of the vehicle - the ownership of the vehicle passed to Mr D 
immediately the payment  was made.  So it wasnt open to Chapel  House  or the provider of 
finance (B) to dictate  what Mr D could do with the vehicle. This is unlike a loan - such  as a 
hire purchase agreement - where  the ownership  of the goods doesnt pass  to the consumer 
until all the payments have been  made.  And in the case  of a hire purchase agreement the 
law permits a consumer  to return goods to the supplier once a certain proportion of the 
finance agreement  has been repaid. Its also stated within  the terms of the agreement  that if 
any payment isnt made the supplier of finance, B, would be entitled  to take legal action to 
recover the debt.  So I think the obligation  to make all payments is clear.
Ref: DRN20100643Ive also been  provided with information in the form of emails  and telephone recordings as to 
what attempts were  made to try and resolve the complaint. It appears Chapel House tried to 
source a vehicle which would have allowed Mr D to enter into a new finance  agreement and 
absorb the cost of the final payment into this. But Mr D didnt think the terms of the proposed 
offer were  suitable  and he chose - perfectly reasonably - to obtain a vehicle from a different 
dealer. Unfortunately  the part-exchange  value of his current  vehicle amounted  to only 
£3,000. And in order to settle  the finance  agreement  hed had to pay £4,825. So in his eyes 
hed incurred a loss of £1,825 - which wouldnt have arisen if hed been  able to hand the 
original vehicle back to Chapel  House.
Im satisfied that in trying  to source another vehicle Chapel House  was attempting  to help 
Mr D reduce the impact  of the final payment. But that this offer was contingent upon him 
obtaining another vehicle  from it. As that didnt happen I dont think Chapel House was under 
any further obligation in respect of the final payment.
Ive also read the reply  of our adjudicator from 8 March 2019. - in which she responds to 
various issues which were raised after her first view was issued. Ive already referred to a 
number of these  items  in my decision but Im able to indicate  that where Ive not made a 
specific reference - as its not an issue which  directly  affected my decision - Im in agreement 
with her comments.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that in signing the finance  agreement Mr D knew - or ought 
reasonably to have  known  - the nature of the agreement he was entering.  Accordingly, I 
dont think theres been  any misrepresentation. And I shant  be asking Chapel House to do 
anything else.
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr D Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2010064