K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Skipton Building  Society (Skipton) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M took out a mortgage with Skipton in 1997.  At the same time he bought  a PPI policy  
which wouldve covered  the repayments  on his mortgage for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Mr M says that he didnt ask for the PPI. He says it wasnt presented  as optional and that it 
was added without  his knowledge. He says he didnt need it and he wasnt asked about his 
medical history.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when reaching  my decision.  Having done  so, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he didnt ask for the PPI. He says it was added without his knowledge and 
that he didnt know it was optional.
Skipton has provided  a copy  of Mr Ms mortgage application form. Theres  a separate 
section for insurances.  In the PPI section it makes clear that the insurance is optional. 
Theres a choice of yes and no options. Theres a tick in the yes box and Mr M has signed  
the form. There is also a further section where,  if the consumer has chosen no they are 
asked to confirm  that the benefits  of the PPI had been explained and why they didnt want it.
So I think it was made very clear  that the PPI was optional and Mr M chose  to buy it knowing 
he didnt have to.
It seems  likely that Skipton gave  Mr M a personal recommendation to take the policy.  So it 
had a responsibility to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for him. Looking  at 
Mr Ms circumstances  at the time I think that it was suitable for him. I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr M says he wouldve had some  sick pay from his employer. But the policy  wouldve 
paid in addition  to this and for longer than his full sick pay wouldve lasted;
Mr M didnt have  any savings, although  he wouldve received some redundancy pay 
if he was made  redundant. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this. Mr M was 
solely responsible  for his mortgage repayments so it was important he was able to 
make them  even  if he wasnt working;
Ref: DRN22967452The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies available around the 
same time. It was flexible  because  it could be cancelled at any time without a 
financial penalty. And I havent  seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr 
M.
Its possible Mr M didnt  receive all the information he ideally shouldve done. But I dont 
think more, or better, information  wouldve  changed his mind  about buying the PPI because  
it was suitable  for him as Ive described above. So I dont think Mr M lost out as a result  of 
anything Skipton mightve done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2296745