K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Ms D complain  that ReAssure Limited  didnt distribute  their sister Miss Ds pension 
death benefits in accordance either with her will, or the way in which  her pension  plan had 
originally been  set up (to pay benefits to her estate). They  are complaining both in their own 
capacity and as executors  of her estate.
background
Miss D took out a pension in September 1990, which was part of what  was then called the 
Combined Life Personal Pension  Plan.  She applied for the plan to receive rebates of her 
National Insurance contributions as a result  of contracting out of the earnings-related part of 
the state pension (SERPS). She didnt pay in her own contributions.  
Contracted-out funds  were known at that time as protected rights, which were treated 
differently from other funds in certain  situations. For instance on death where there  was a 
surviving spouse or civil partner, the funds  would be used to buy them  a guaranteed income 
(an annuity).  If there  was no surviving  spouse or civil partner, the funds were often paid to 
the deceaseds estate or otherwise distributed in accordance with their direction. 
Non-protected rights (built up from the members own contributions)  could always provide 
lump sums on death and these were most commonly subject to a discretionary trust, with the 
pension provider acting  as trustee. The reason for this was that benefits paid under a 
discretionary trust would fall outside the deceaseds  estate for inheritance tax purposes   in 
some cases  the funds could be significant. In this situation the member completed an 
Expression of Wish (EoW) form to say which people they would like the death benefits paid 
to and in which proportions. The trustee would  take the EoW into account but ultimately the 
decision had to be theirs, in order  to ensure the funds fell outside the estate.
On her application Miss D ticked a box to indicate  that she didnt  require the scheme
administrator to apply  its discretion when paying  the lump sum death benefits. We dont 
know what the Combined Life rules said about  how death benefits  would be paid if there
was no surviving spouse, as ReAssure no longer holds  a copy. However  the application
form explained that, by ticking that box, the death benefits would be paid to Miss Ds legal 
personal representatives (i.e. her estate) in the event of her death.
In 1996 Miss Ds plan was part of a block transfer  of pensions to Windsor  Life and in
2012, Windsor Life re-branded as ReAssure. ReAssure has provided  us with the current
plan rules as a result of changes prompted  by the new pension freedoms legislation in April 
2015. These rules  are stated to replace previous rules. Rule 16 now says:
On the death  of a Member  or a Survivor  the Provider shall apply the Members or 
Survivors individual  Fund for the benefit  of such one or more of his Eligible Recipients 
and in such proportions  and at such time or times and in such one or more  of the ways 
set out in Rule 16.2 as the Provider  in its absolute discretion may determine (subject to 
Rule 17.1 and any other restrictions imposed by or under the Rules)."
So ReAssure now has discretion as to how the death benefits are distributed   i.e. they are 
under a discretionary trust. The reason  ReAssure  gives for this change  is that protected  
rights were  abolished by the government in 2012,  and therefore  removed the requirement  for 
protected rights to be used to provide a pension to a surviving spouse or civil partner. They  
could essentially be treated the same  way as non-protected  rights.
Ref: DRN25397112Miss D later made a will on the 1st November 2018, leaving all of her estate to her
brother Mr D and sister  Ms D. She died six days later without a spouse or partner.  The 
beneficiaries of her estate  were also her executors and therefore  complained  that they were 
expecting to receive all of the death benefits to distribute in accordance with her will. It 
subsequently transpired that this also matched her direction at the time of the original 
application she completed.
The executors completed a form for ReAssure which confirmed that Miss D had no children, 
grandchildren or parents  alive at the time of her death  but six siblings in total. A ReAssure 
employee then phoned  Ms D to explain that it would  need to write  to the other  siblings as the 
pension policy fell outside of the estate and would therefore not be subject to the will. 
After all of the other siblings confirmed they wished to be considered  as potential
beneficiaries, ReAssure made a decision to pay the lump  sum benefits to all six siblings  in 
equal shares. The two executors complained that ReAssure had distributed the benefits 
against Miss Ds wishes, and brought that complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should succeed because:
-ReAssure couldnt tell us what the original plan rules said,  but it would  be highly 
unlikely that they wouldnt include a clause  allowing future  amendments. This was 
standard industry practice.
-So the progressive amendments  to the rules  between  1990 and Miss Ds death were 
the rules that now apply, and that meant ReAssure  now had discretion over where 
the lump sum death benefits were  paid.
-The 2012 abolition  of protected rights didnt specifically require the removal of terms 
allowing direction of death benefits to Miss D estate. However its unusual to find a 
plan which doesnt rely on trustees discretion as it may cause inheritance  tax issues. 
So its unlikely Miss D could have switched her pension elsewhere to avoid this.
-There might be some  doubt as to whether  Miss D fully understood that the policy 
rules had changed and she could complete an EoW. But the rule change was in 2012 
and at that time, Miss D hadnt considered  it important to make a will.
-It wasnt clear  that Miss D would therefore  have completed an EoW even if prompted 
to do so, or that she would have named the same people  in an EoW as she later did 
in her will. 
-In any event, whilst ReAssure as trustee had to take any EoW  into account when it 
made its decision, it wasnt bound to follow  what any EoW said. It may still have 
chosen to distribute  the death  benefits six ways, whatever  Miss D had decided.
-Miss Ds six siblings  all had a very similar  standing  in terms of being  similarly  related 
to her but not financially  dependent. Whilst it was suggested that she was out of 
contact with her other four siblings,  ReAssure wasnt bound  to make a decision on 
that basis which could  equally  be open  to challenge from the other side.
Ms D said that she disagreed with the investigators  view, as she still believed her sisters 
wishes as expressed  in her will and to Ms D verbally  many  times should have
been upheld. So as agreement couldnt  be reached,  the matter was referred  to me for a 
decision.
ReAssure didnt make  any further  comments.
Ref: DRN25397113my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators overall view for much  the same  reasons as he gave.
Could Miss D have avoided the new policy terms applying?
Ms D (on behalf of the complainants in this case)  hasnt commented on the validity of the 
new policy terms, which the investigator  said replaced the terms which likely applied at the 
time Miss D took out the policy.  For completeness,  Id like to add my own thoughts on this.
My understanding of the legislation originally  governing death  benefits payable from 
protected rights is that if a policyholder who didnt have a spouse or civil partner nominated  
where any lump sum should go, that nomination was binding  on the provider. In other words 
before 2012, the provider didnt have discretion when paying a lump  sum. It would have to 
pay the lump sum to the nominated person(s) or failing that, the policyholders  estate. In 
either situation the payment would  still be counted  together  with their estate and potentially 
become subject to inheritance tax because  it was a direction that had to be made by the 
policyholder, rather  than leaving discretion to the provider.
Ive reviewed the application form Miss D completed in this light. Given  that it asks her 
whether she wanted  death benefits  to be subject to a discretionary trust, it seems to me that 
this question was likely  intended to apply to any non-protected rights  (of which  there were 
none). However  I accept  the wording is ambiguous. Miss D answered no to this question, 
in which  case the form explained that the death  benefits would be payable  to her estate. But 
as she only had protected rights,  there wasnt an alternative in those  circumstances  until 
protected rights legislation was changed  in 2012.
One possible reading of Miss Ds original application is that she had never made  a binding 
request for the death benefits to be payable to her estate  because the question she had 
answered couldnt apply to protected  rights.  Another is that she did make a binding  request 
for the death benefits to be payable  to her estate, even though they were protected rights  
benefits and the question  was poorly  worded. But whichever of the two it is, I also havent 
seen anything to suggest that Miss Ds request was irrevocable  that is, capable of being 
amended. Ill explain  why.
Typically and where non-protected rights benefits  are concerned, an instruction to put 
benefits into a discretionary trust is irrevocable, as the purpose of making that instruction is 
to take the benefits out of the policyholders  estate. HMRC will only accept  that if the 
policyholder permanently loses the ability to direct absolutely where the benefits  are paid. 
But the situation in reverse is possible:  if the scheme rules allowed  the policyholder to direct  
that benefits go to a particular person (or to their estate), HMRC rules dont prevent them  
from changing their mind later on and giving up the power to direct  by placing those death 
benefits into a discretionary trust.
I mention this to explain that there  would  have been  no logical reason for Miss Ds original 
instruction to be irrevocable  and in my experience policy rules are drafted in such a way 
that they dont  unnecessarily restrict a policyholders options (when there is no benefit to the 
provider in having that restriction).
The relaxation of legislation  in 2012 removed the requirement for a protected  rights lump  
sum death benefit to be counted as part of the policyholders estate for inheritance tax 
Ref: DRN25397114purposes. But to do this the provider would need to make provision for all death benefits to 
be subject to the same discretionary trust, so the policyholder was no longer giving a 
direction. I think that would typically be the more attractive option for most  consumers and so 
its understandable that ReAssure has drafted the latest policy  terms in this way. There was 
no expectation that it must draft the terms specifically with Miss D in mind, but I would of 
course expect Miss D to be told that the new terms applied.
As the investigator  mentioned,  we cant be sure what communications took place when 
ReAssures rules changed after 2012. Even if Miss D was sent a copy  of the new rules, 
which would be standard practice, a number of changes were being  made  at that time. So 
its also possible that the particular implications for Miss Ds previous death benefit direction  
werent as clear to her as they should  have been.
As a result Ive considered how likely it is that Miss D might have acted differently in 2012 if 
she was reasonably aware of how the rule changes might affect her. Im not in a position  to 
categorically say what  Miss Ds thoughts were on how to distribute her death benefits in 
2012, or around that time.  She hadnt  made a will. We know  she made  one in 2018, but Im 
cautious about reading too much into a decision  she made six years later when she was 
likely more aware of her health situation.
On balance, I think that what would most likely  have happened in or around  2012 is that 
Miss D wouldnt  have  sought to try and avoid her protected rights death benefits  being 
subject to a discretionary  trust. The investigator  explained that she would have  had to try to 
find another provider  she could transfer to which permitted directions (rather than discretion) 
to apply to death benefits   and in my experience it would be unusual to find such  a provider. 
There isnt strong enough  evidence,  in my view, to suggest Miss D would have done this  or 
would have been successful in doing  it. 
I say this particularly  as the alternative was to stay with ReAssure (in which  case the 
discretionary trust would then apply)  and  if these were her wishes  at that time  make an 
EoW in favour of certain siblings but not others.  ReAssure as trustee  would then take her 
EoW into account when  it made its decision. Whilst Miss D wouldnt have a guarantee that 
ReAssure would follow the EoW, I dont think there  is strong enough evidence here to say 
that she would have been totally opposed  to that as the practical solution.
Was ReAssures discretionary decision rational and might an EoW have made a difference?
In exercising their discretion, it was the role of the trustees to take all relevant information 
into account and not to consider irrelevant information. There  are often a range of outcomes 
that might  be considered  a justifiable exercise  of discretion. So providing  I can see that 
ReAssure gathered the right information and wasnt influenced by something  irrelevant, it 
wouldnt be my role to replace its judgement  with my own. 
I was therefore initially  concerned to see ReAssure referring to the law of intestacy when 
discussing its decision. It isnt bound by any law to distribute pension death benefits equally  
between all six siblings (who would  have had equal right to inherit from her estate if Miss D 
had died without  a will, i.e. intestate). I think this reference was potentially misleading  in the 
circumstances. But on balance, Im satisfied that what  ReAssure was referring  to  but 
articulating poorly  was that it wasnt bound to follow Miss Ds will either. In fact it would 
have been just as wrong  for ReAssure  to do that, given that as a result of the rule changes  
the death benefits under Miss Ds policy do not form part of her estate. 
Ref: DRN25397115The fact that Miss D left her estate to only two of her siblings, but that also (as her will 
doesnt apply  here) all six siblings  have an equal  relationship standing, are both relevant 
facts for ReAssure to take into account  in its decision. ReAssure also needed to take into 
account that Miss D had not made an EoW  in favour  of the same two siblings as in her will. It 
was then for ReAssure to decide whether to give the most weight to Miss Ds will as an 
indication of her wishes,  or to decide  to distribute the death benefits to all her siblings 
equally, in particular given that she hadnt made an EoW. 
In the circumstances I dont think its unusual or surprising that ReAssure decided to split the 
benefits equally. I think many providers would  have decided to do the same thing. However I 
appreciate that the circumstances in which the policy terms changed have left a question 
mark as to what might have happened if Miss D was better informed in around 2012 and did 
make an EoW in favour  of only two siblings.
We dont of course know that Miss D would actually have done this. Considering what Ive 
said above, its perhaps most likely  that there  would  still have been no EoW.  But if she had, 
there was arguably  more  potential for ReAssures  subsequent decision to have been 
different. However and importantly for the outcome of this complaint, I still dont think  it would 
have been an irrational decision for ReAssure  to split the death benefits  equally even if 
Miss Ds EoW said otherwise. 
Thats partly  because under a discretionary  trust ReAssure wasnt  bound  to follow any EoW 
Miss D made. But also because ReAssure still wouldnt, in my view,  have been considering  
irrelevant information  if it decided to give more weight to the fact that all her siblings had 
equal relationship standing. It would always have been mindful that its decision was equally 
open to challenge from those who were  left out of the distribution,  as it currently  is from 
those who expected to receive more. I can therefore understand why a provider would 
decide to make a payment to all parties  who held the same status in relation to Miss D  and 
as I mentioned above its not my role to substitute  my judgement  for ReAssures.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint by Mr D, Ms D and Miss Ds estate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2539711