K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a loan. Mr P says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr P aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his loan. Mr P originally took out a loan in 2003 without PPI, which he refinanced 
with a loan in 2004. PPI was added to this loan. Mr P again refinanced this loan in 2005  and 
PPI was not added to the loan.
By the time Mr P took his second  loan in 2004 he had already had a loan with Nationwide  
without PPI for some time. In addition  to this Mr Ps 2004  loan agreement  described the PPI 
as optional credit  insurance.  It also separated the cost of the PPI from the cost of the loan 
itself. Mr P has signed this document in agreement with the information on it.
Overall I think  Nationwide made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means he had available 
to make his repayments  which I think would have  included  at least statutory sick pay and 
statutory redundancy pay. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition to Mr Ps sick pay, 
and for longer, it would  also have paid out in circumstances  other than redundancy. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN22132182Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2213218