K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund  cash  machine withdrawals made using 
his debit card totalling £500. He says he did not make or authorise these payments. 
background
Mr C logged onto his mobile banking on the morning of 11 February 2019 to check his 
balance. He saw two cash withdrawals from ATMs,  for £250 each. One of the withdrawals 
took place just before midnight on 10 February and the other  one just after midnight. Mr C 
says he didnt know anything about these  so he called Barclays.  
When reporting the withdrawals, Mr C told Barclays that he couldnt  find his card but 
remembered using it in the late afternoon - the day before (on 10 February)  - for around 
£6.00 in a shop. He said he put the card back into his jacket  pocket but couldnt remember  if 
someone had seen him use his PIN. He said there  were other customers  in the shop. 
Barclays looked into the matter but declined to refund the two cash machine withdrawals. It 
felt Mr C had most likely authorised them because there  had been  no attempts to use the 
card after it had been reported  missing.  It said that whoever had the card knew  it had been  
cancelled and was therefore of no use to them. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclays  response. So he asked us to investigate.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She explored 
different possibilities in which the withdrawals  could have been  made.  However, on balance, 
she felt unable to conclude that they had been  made  fraudulently and was persuaded they 
were most likely made and authorised by Mr C: either by making them  himself  or allowing 
someone else to on his behalf.  
In reaching her conclusions that Mr C had most  likely authorised the withdrawals, the 
investigator had considered the requirements  of the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs)  as these set out whats needed for a bank to hold a customer  liable for withdrawals 
in circumstances  like this.
Mr C didnt agree with what the investigator  said. So the complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr C feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to our investigator. And thats not surprising  as these withdrawals initially  took him 
significantly over his agreed overdraft limit. 
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr C that I agree with the investigator. Barclays  doesnt have to 
refund the money taken out of his account. Indeed, there isnt a great deal I can add to what 
shes already said.  I think the investigators  set out in some detail the various things shes 
had to consider.  That said,  its important I reassure  Mr C that Ive considered  his complaint 
afresh and independently  of what the investigator has done.
Ref: DRN22139282Ive looked at Barclays records. Im satisfied  Mr Cs genuine card was used  and the PIN 
was entered correctly. However, I dont think Mr C disputes this as he says his card was 
missing. 
Of course,  this isnt the only consideration as the regulations  relevant to this case also say 
that is not, on its own, enough  to allow Barclays to hold Mr C liable.  
So I need to think  about whether the evidence suggests on balance that Mr C most likely 
made, or otherwise consented to the withdrawals  taking  place.  
Mr C lives with his wife and children. He says he asked them if they had used his card but he 
has himself ruled that out - he says they dont know his PIN. Another  explanation for what 
happened is that an opportunistic fraudster saw Mr C enter his PIN when he used his card in 
the shop on 10 February  and was then able to lift it from his jacket  pocket,  after hed put it 
back. But I dont  consider  this likely  for the following reasons:
-The opportunistic  fraudster would have to take the card from Mr Cs jacket pocket 
without him noticing. However, he hasnt provided a convincing explanation  as to 
how that might have happened. 
-Even if someone had managed to take Mr Cs card without him noticing, it wasnt 
used for several  hours. The last undisputed transaction was made at 5pm but the first 
disputed cash machine withdrawal didnt take place until just before midnight. Given 
there was a risk that Mr C might have realised  his card was missing and that he 
might also contact  the bank to stop it, I think its unlikely anyone going  to the trouble 
of stealing his card would then wait so long before attempting  to use it. 
-Mr C reported the cash machine withdrawals the next morning  when he also reported  
his card missing. However, the banks records show there werent any further 
attempts to use it. I consider its unusual the card wasnt  used again. While I have 
noted the withdrawals  had taken  Mr Cs account  over its authorised  overdraft limit, an 
unknown third party wouldnt  have  known if any further credits  had gone into the 
account to allow  for more  money  to be withdrawn or spent.  
-Finally, Mr C hasnt  disputed  that he reported fraud  on his account  twelve months 
earlier. The bank says this happened in strikingly  similar circumstances.  I do accept 
its possible that Mr C might  be unlucky in falling victim to the same  type of fraud  
twice but the timings  of the withdrawals  are in my view very similar for this to be a 
coincidence. 
All of the available evidence in my view points to the only remaining possibility. That is, it is 
most likely that Mr C withdrew the money from the ATM himself  or authorised someone  else 
to. I realise  thats a difficult  message  to give and indeed receive. But, Ive considered  
carefully the requirements of the PSRs,  and the guidance of the Financial Conduct Authority, 
around authorisation of withdrawals.  And, on this occasion, Im satisfied Barclays  can hold 
Mr C responsible for them. So I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
I realise Mr C will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we can do 
to help him.  
Ref: DRN22139283my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Sarita Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2213928