K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1995. Mrs R says Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs R took out the store  card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Rs store card application  on this I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product  and the policy has been selected  with a tick. The 
application is two sided  and on the other  side, Mrs R has signed it.
Mrs R says that the application  was completed by the sales  person   and she just signed 
where required in order to get the card. She says that she never saw the other part of the 
application. While I dont  doubt what Mrs R is saying  and its possible the application was 
completed by the sales person, it doesnt follow that the PPI wasnt clearly made optional  by 
FICL. And as Mrs R was entering in to a financial agreement, it was her responsibility to 
check over what  she was signing  before agreeing to the information on her application by 
signing. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs R has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Ref: DRN23636832Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2363683