K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) over an issue  the online banking  
platform has in saving  payee details. He wants Barclays to fix the issue  and to pay him more  
compensation for his time and for a late payment he incurred. 
background
Mr W holds a Barclays current account. He uses online banking to make  payments from this 
account to his credit card,  which is held with another bank. 
In August  2018,  Mr W reported to Barclays that when he was making  his payments to his 
credit card the details  of the card were not saving  as a regular payee.  This meant  that he 
had to enter the credit card account  details each time he made a payment. 
Around this time, Mr W entered the details of his credit card account incorrectly  so his 
payment failed and he received a late payment penalty. 
Barclays looked into this and initially did not identify an issue,  as another of Mr Ws account 
details had saved  as a payee.  Barclays said that details of payees should remain on the 
account for 6 months. Barclays informed Mr W that the reason for the failed payment  to his 
credit card was that he had entered the account  number  incorrectly.  
Mr W experienced the same issue, of the payee details not saving, over the next couple  of 
months. He contacted Barclays. 
Barclays looked into his complaint and acknowledged that there  had been  an issue  with its 
online banking service  which meant that credit  card reference details could  not be saved. 
In its final response letter  in October  2018, Barclays apologised  to Mr W and offered him 
compensation of £200 for his inconvenience.  It said that whilst it hoped the issue would be 
corrected soon it could  not give a definitive  timescale for this. 
Mr W accepted Barclays  offer of compensation. 
Mr W contacted  Barclays  again  in November 2018 as he continued to encounter the issue.  
Barclays responded, reiterating that it was working  on the issue,  and that it had nothing 
further to add to its final response.  
Mr W then contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and has set out his view to the parties. 
This was that Barclays had responded appropriately  to the complaint and made  a 
reasonable offer of compensation to reflect  the inconvenience Mr W had faced. He therefore 
did not recommend  that Barclays do anything further. 
Mr W did not accept this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN27331792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, whilst I understand Mr Ws frustration at seeing an issue continue,  I should make  
clear the limits of this service. We do not regulate  financial  businesses,  or dictate the 
actions, policies or processes they should follow. We also do not impose fines  on financial 
businesses. That is the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Our role is to consider whether a business  has provided a poor service  to its individual 
customers, and where it has, we can look at directing the business to compensate that 
customer for any financial losses  and, if appropriate,  distress  and inconvenience. 
In this situation, there is no dispute  that Barclays online banking system has an issue which  
means that, for the time being, customers have  to enter their credit card account information  
manually in order to make  a payment, rather than have this saved  in the customers  account 
as regular payees. 
Mr W has been caused some inconvenience by this, and has experienced a late payment 
because on one occasion he manually input the details incorrectly. I appreciate that this will 
have been frustrating to him, but I do not think he has been caused  severe  distress  or 
inconvenience, and he has been  on notice since October 2018 that it is an ongoing  issue  
and he will need to have  his details available when he makes his credit card payment, so he 
caninput these details  manually. 
Mr W asks that we compel Barclays to fix this issue, but as I have set out above  that is not 
our role. 
Barclays has acknowledged  the issue and apologised for the inconvenience  Mr W has been  
caused. Its offer of £200 is reasonable and is in line with awards  we would make in similar 
circumstances. I therefore  do not ask Barclays  to do anything  further.  
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr W, but I hope it clearly explains the 
limits of this service and why I am satisfied  that Barclays has acted reasonably.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint but think  that Barclays Bank UK 
Plc has made a reasonable offer of compensation. I do not ask it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2733179