K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that two payments he tried to make  towards his credit  card account were  
returned by Virgin Money  plc with no explanation  or notification. 
background
Mr N has a Virgin credit card. He had a direct debit set up to make the minimum monthly 
repayment but in October  and November 2018, the direct debit was returned  unpaid. 
Mr N tried to make  a manual payment towards his credit  card but became aware  that this 
wasnt working either. So he contacted Virgin, who told him that the direct debits had been 
returned by his bank and that hed been  using the wrong account reference  to make the 
manual payment. Because  the payments had been  missed though, Virgin  said they had 
removed Mr Ns promotional interest  free period  and reported the missed  payments to his 
credit file.
Virgin agreed that their service when Mr N was in touch with them  about the problems he 
was having hadnt been up to the standard  theyd expect  so they offered  Mr N £50 in 
recognition of this. Virgin also applied an interest waiver to Mr Ns account  for three  months, 
in January, February and March 2019.  Mr N wasnt happy with this in resolution of his 
complaint. 
Our adjudicator thought what Virgin had offered was reasonable. He said, in summary, the 
direct debits were returned because  Mr N didnt have  the funds available  in his bank 
account. And that the manual payment Mr N tried to make had failed because the correct  
reference hadnt been used. So he thought  that Virgin hadnt done anything  wrong  by 
removing the interest  free promotional rate on Mr Ns account or recording  the missed  
payments on his credit file. The adjudicator  thought the £50 that was offered was fair. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said he wants the negative information removed from his credit  file 
and compensation  of £250 - £500  to put towards  his credit card. As Mr N didnt accept the 
adjudicators findings,  the complaints been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Virgin  have 
treated Mr N unfairly. Ill explain why.
Mr N said he couldnt understand why the direct debits had stopped working,  because  theyd 
been working up until that point for the life of his account. Ive seen statements for Mr Ns 
current account. Theres a small agreed overdraft  on this account. I can see on the 
statements that on both occasions, in October  and November 2018,  on the day the direct 
debit for Mr Ns credit card was taken Mr Ns balance  was already over his overdraft limit or 
the payment for the credit card wouldve taken him over the agreed limit. So the payments 
were returned unpaid. Although Mr N says he was sure he had money in his account to pay 
the direct  debits, I dont  think  thats right based  on the statements Ive seen. So I dont think  
Virgin did anything wrong when these payments failed. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ns account say that if Virgin doesnt receive a minimum 
payment when its due theyll remove any promotional interest rate. The terms also say that 
Ref: DRN22484522if a payment is not made,  Virgin will let the credit  reference agencies know as well. As Mr N 
didnt make either his October or November 2018  minimum  payment on time, I think Virgin  
were entitled  to remove the promotional interest  free offer from his account and report this 
information to credit reference agencies.  
Mr N says hes unhappy that Virgin didnt tell him the direct debits had failed. But Virgin says 
they did send  letters on both occasions  and Ive seen  copies  of these letters. Theyre 
correctly addressed so I dont know why Mr N wouldnt have received them,  but I think  Virgin  
did try to get in touch  with Mr N about the failed direct debits. 
Mr Ns also unhappy that the manual payment he tried to make wasnt credited to his 
account. Virgins provided the transaction  record for this payment which shows  that the 
wrong reference was used and it says thats why it went missing. Its now been returned to 
Mr Ns account but I agree that Virgin could probably have done more  to locate this payment 
when Mr N first contacted them about it. 
During the life of Mr Ns account, the bank  account details for making manual payments 
have changed.  But I dont think thats  the reason either the direct debits or the manual 
payment didnt work so I havent considered this any further. 
Virgin have offered Mr N £50 in recognition of not doing everything  they couldve to find this 
payment initially  and I think  this is fair. For the reasons Ive already explained I dont think 
Virgin have done  anything wrong in relation  to the failed direct  debits,  removing the 
promotional interest  free period, or reporting what happened to his credit file. So they dont 
need to compensate him for these things. And I think  £50 fairly  reflects the additional time 
and worry Mr N spent trying  to sort out the issue  with the manual payment.  On top of this, 
Virgin applied an interest waiver to Mr Ns account so the interest free period was extended  
even though Virgin were entitled  to withdraw  it immediately.   
my final decision
Virgin Money plc has offered Mr N £50 for his distress  and inconvenience.  I conclude thats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  so my final decision is that Virgin  Money plc 
should pay Mr N £50 if they havent  already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2248452