K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  gave her loans that she 
couldnt afford.
background
Miss M took out a total of five loans with Mr Lender.
Loan Date Amount borrowed
No. of 
instalmentsDate repaid
1 12.12.15 £250 6 16.12.15
2 19.12.15 £250 3 24.12.15
3 16.05.16 £200 3 26.08.16
4 02.09.16 £400 3 25.11.16
5 26.11.16 £1,010 12 18.07.17
Miss M believes  that Mr Lender  didnt carry out careful enough  checks before making the 
loans. And she thinks that if it had done  so, it wouldnt have agreed to them. She says shed 
already taken out lots of loans, and couldnt  afford to take on further lending.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
thought that Mr Lender had carried out thorough enough checks  before making the first three  
loans. And he didnt think it had been  unreasonable to make them  in view of the information 
it had. But he thought it should have  carried out more detailed  checks  before making the last 
two loans. And he thought that if it had done so, it wouldnt  have made loan 5. So the 
adjudicator recommended  that Mr Lender refund all interest and charges that Miss M paid on 
loan 5, with interest  on the refund. And he said it should remove any negative information 
about loan 5 from Miss Ms credit file.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Miss M could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss M was borrowing, and her lending  history,  
but there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lenders told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss M. It says that it carried 
out credit  checks before  the loans were  issued, and it asked Miss M for details of her 
monthly income, which she told it ranged from £1,200 per month to £1,300 per month.
The highest  instalment repayable on loan 1 was £137.66. That was a relatively  small 
proportion of Miss Ms monthly income. And the credit  check that Mr Lender  carried  out 
didnt show anything which I think should have prompted it to look more  closely  at Miss Ms 
financial circumstances before lending. So taking everything into account, I dont think  it was 
unreasonable of Mr Lender  to go ahead and make  the loan without carrying  out more 
detailed affordability  checks.
Ref: DRN23595682Although it was set to run for six months, Miss M repaid loan 1 after just four days. Then, a 
few days later, she borrowed the same amount again, but this time the loan was set to run 
for three months instead of six. The highest instalment due on loan 2 was £165.33. While 
that was more than the highest  instalment that had been due on the first loan, it was still a 
relatively low proportion  of Miss Ms declared  take-home pay. And at this early stage of its 
relationship with Miss M, I dont think Mr Lender was unreasonable to agree to loan 2 without 
carrying out more  detailed affordability  checks.
More than four months passed between  Miss M repaying loan 2 and applying  for loan 3. 
Loan 3 was for less than the previous  two loans, and the highest instalment was less than 
£130. Again,  the credit  check that Mr Lender  carried out didnt show  anything  which  I think 
should have prompted it to carry out further  checks  before agreeing  to lend. So I dont think 
Mr Lender was at fault in making the third loan without asking Miss M for more information  
about her financial  circumstances.
But loan four marked a significant step up in the amount Miss M was borrowing from 
Mr Lender. And she applied for it only a few days after repaying loan 3. The highest 
instalment due was £220.69  significantly more than the instalments on the previous loans, 
and a more substantial proportion of Miss Ms declared monthly  income. Taking everything 
into account, I think Mr Lender should,  as a minimum, have asked Miss M about  her regular 
monthly expenditure, and her credit  commitments  in addition to her income. Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that it did so. 
So Ive looked  at what Miss Ms told us about her regular expenditure at the time, to see 
what its likely that Mr Lender  would have discovered if it had carried out what  I consider to 
be proportionate checks in the circumstances.  Miss Ms told us that she made a relatively 
small contribution to the household outgoings,  due to her levels of debt. And her bank 
statements from the time support what she says. I dont think  that even  if Miss M had told 
Mr Lender about her regular monthly outgoings, it ought to have concluded that she couldnt  
afford the loan. So I dont  think  it was at fault in making the loan.
When Miss M applied for loan 5, she told Mr Lender that her monthly income  was £1,200,  
and her regular  monthly outgoings were £750. She told it she didnt have any other loans. 
I accept that based  purely on the information Miss M provided, it would have appeared that 
she had enough  disposable income  to afford  the repayments. 
Its true that thered  been a gap of more than four months between Miss M repaying loan 2 
and applying  for loan 3. But the fact remains that loan 5 was the fifth loan Miss M had 
applied to Mr Lender for in less than a year. And I think  that by this stage, Mr Lender should 
have been concerned about whether Miss M was borrowing sustainably   in other words, out 
of her income and savings and without having to borrow to meet the repayments. She 
applied for loan 5 the day after she repaid  loan 4. And although it was spread over a longer 
period than loan 4, it was for well over twice  as much as her previous highest loan from Mr 
Lender. The highest monthly instalment due was £238.69, and Miss M was going to have  to 
sustain repayments,  for 12 months.  Taking everything into account, I think Mr Lender  should 
have taken steps to independently verify the information Miss M gave it when she applied for 
the loan.
Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements to see what I think its likely  that Mr Lender would 
have found if it had looked  into Miss Ms financial circumstances in as much detail as I think  
it should have  done.
Ref: DRN23595683I can see that Miss M was spending  very large  amounts every  month on gambling. In fact 
gambling was often taking up most of her income.  And she was using several other  short-
term lenders. So I think  that if Mr Lender  had carried out what  I consider to be proportionate 
checks, it would have realised that it was very unlikely  that Miss M would be able to afford  to 
repay the loan sustainably.  So, as a responsible lender, it would have declined her loan 
application.
This means  that Mr Lender needs  to pay Miss M some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to make loan 5 to Miss M. So Mr Lender should:
Refund any interest, fees and charges applied to loan 5. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per year to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in relation to loan 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited  (trading as 
Mr Lender) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2359568