K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1987. Mr P says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr P cant remember the sale, but says wasnt aware he had the policy.  Thats 
understandable given  how long ago it was, and that the PPI was cancelled in 2003.  
Theres a lack of evidence from the time of sale, so Im unable to say that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear  the PPI was optional, or that Mr P didnt agree to take it out. 
Ive assumed that Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for him  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like the PPI wouldve been useful for him if something  
went wrong  he had no sick pay. It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - including what he has said about the fact he 
was self-employed.  But these points dont change my decision. I dont think being self-
employed wouldve  made it any harder for him to make a claim on the policy.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Ref: DRN23535392But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2353539