K820x#14This final decision is issued by me, Carole Clark, an Ombudsman with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
My provisional decision from April 2019  explained  that I was minded not to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint, subject to any further evidence and representations submitted by the parties. 
Neither Lloyds Bank Plc nor Mr S responded with any further submissions.
summary
1. This dispu te is about the sale in 1999  of a payment protectio n insurance (PPI) policy to 
support a Lloyds Bank Plc (trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester  Plc) mortgage.
2. Mr S complains  that Lloyds did not properly explain the policys features, exclusions 
and limitations. If it had, he says he would not have  taken the policy out.
3.Lloyds says Mr S was given a choice about whether or not to take out the policy, the policy 
was suitable for him and it is more likely than not that the policys features and limitations 
were verbally explained to him in good time before the sale was concluded.
4. I have carefully consider ed all of the evidence and arguments submitted by both sides,  
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reaso nable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint.
5. This is not a straightforw ard complaint,  with both parties making  credible arguments in 
support of their position s. But for the reasons I explain in detail below, I determine  the 
complaint in favour  of Lloyds, to the extent that I do not make an award in favour of Mr 
S.
6. This is a final decision.  In summary,  based on the evidence and arguments submitt ed 
so far, my conclusions are as follows:
Mr S made his decision to take out the policy based on advice and information 
Lloyds gave them about the policy.
Taking into account the law, industry  codes of practice and what I consid er to 
have been good  practice in 1999 (there were no applicable regulations at the 
time), Lloyds should fairly and reasonably have advised Mr S with reasonable care 
and skill. In particular, it should have considered whether the policy was appropriate 
or suitable for him, given his needs and circumstances. It should also fairly and 
reasonably have provided Mr S with sufficient clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy it was recommending  to him, to enable Mr S to 
make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation and 
take out the policy.
Lloyds did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S. It did not 
advise Mr S with reasonable care and skill  it did not take sufficient steps  to 
establish whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr S (although the policy  it 
recommended was ultimately  suitable for him).  And it did not provide him with 
all the information  he needed to make  an informed decision about whether to 
take out the policy.   
Ref: DRN29701502Mr S made his decision  to take out the policy based on the recommendation and 
incomplete information. But if things had happened as they should, on the 
evidence available in this case, it is more likely than not Mr S would still have 
taken out the policy.
It would not be fair in those circumst ances to make an award to compensate  Mr 
S for the money he spent in connec tion with the policy.
7. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to 
accept or reject  my decision  before  21 July 2019.
background to the complaint
a)  events  leading up to the complaint
8. In April 1999, Mr S applied for a Lloyds mortgage. He met with a member of Lloyds 
staff who completed  a loan assessment form, a mortgage application form and a 
Payment Protection Plus proposal  form.   
9. The mortgage application form, which Mr S signed included  a section headed 
insurance.  Mr  S ticked a box to indicate that he wished  to apply  for Payment 
Protection Plus and had completed  the relevant  proposal form.  Mr  S also signed the 
proposal form and a direct debit  mandate for the policy. 
10. Due to a delay in completing on the mortgage,  meaning that his signature was more  
than six months  old, Mr S was sent a new Payment Protection Plus proposal  form 
and direct debit mandate to sign and return. He did so on 3 December 1999.
11. Mr S was taking  out a mortgage  on his existing property. He was borrowing £24,250 
over a term of 12 years.  
12. The loans  and the policy started  on 22 November 1999.  Mr G paid the £12.13 
monthly premium by direct debit. 
13. The policy ended when the mortgage  came to an end in October 2009. 
b)  Mr Ss circumstances  in 1999
14. Mr S was taking  out a mortgage  on the property he was already living  in. He was 52 
years old at the time.
15. According to the mortgage application  form, Mr S had a salary of £15,894 working as 
an HGV driver.  He had worked for his employer for just one year.  
16. Separately,  Mr S has told us that:
 
 He would  have  received between six and twelve months pay if he was off 
work due to sickn ess or accident.  I understand that he told Lloyds that this 
was six months at full pay, followed by six months at half pay.
Ref: DRN29701503 He had savings or insurance equivalent to between six and twelve months pay. 
Although I understand that he told Lloyds that he probably didnt have any 
significant savings at the time and that he had no other insurance policies.
 He did not have any health problems at the time.
17. I note for the sake of completeness that Mr S indicated on the payment protection  
insurance questionnaire  he completed during the course of the complaint that he had 
been with his employer for six years.  
18. I am, however, satisfied it is more  likely  than not that Mr S is mistaken in his 
recollection of events and that the mortgage application form provides an accurate  
record of his length of employment at the time.
c)  the policy  what  was Lloyds selling and what did Mr S buy?
19. Lloyds has provided a copy of the C&G Payment Protection Plus Statement of Cover 
which sets out the full policy terms and condit ions which  applied  to polici es like Mr Ss 
sold in April 1999.
20. The policy conditio ns were set out in an 11 page booklet . Among  other things, these 
show that:
 There were  eligibility  criteria which Mr S met  for example he had to be 18 or 
over, but less than 65 and working at the start date. The cover would end 
when he reached 65.
 The policy provided  disability cover. Broadly, if Mr S was unable to carry out the 
duties of his work (or any other work  which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably become qualified for in view of his trainin g, education and ability) due 
to injury, sickne ss or disease,  it would  pay, direct  to Mr Ss mortgage, his normal  
mortgage payment  each month. The policy would also pay an additional cash 
payment to Mr S of £3 per month for every £1,000 of the opening mortgage 
balance. The monthly benefit would continue until the disability came to an end 
or 12 payments had been made, whichever came first.
 The policy would provide unemployment  benefits. Broadly, the policy  would pay 
the normal mortgage payment each month, plus an additional cash benefit of £3 
per month for every £1,000 of the opening mortgage balance. The monthly benefit 
would continue until Mr S ceased to be unemployed or he had received 12 
payments, whichever came first. 
 The policy would have  paid out after 60 consecutive days of disability or 
unemployment.
 The insurer was Lloyds TSB General Insurance Limited.
21. To put the benefits into context, if Mr S had made a successful claim for 12 months 
he would have  received £3,829.20  made up of £246.35 per month  paid directly  to 
the mortgage account (totalling  £2,956.20) and an additional  cash  benefit of £72.75  
per month (totalling £873).
Ref: DRN2970150422. Returning to the policy terms and conditions, there were  also exclusions  for 
example, claims  resulting from pre-existi ng medical  cond itions  which  Mr S knew,  or 
should have known about, were not covered for the first 24 months  of the policy being 
in place.  
23. Part of Mr Ss complaint is that the policy was poor value because it excluded  or 
limited claims  arising from back injury and mental  health issues. Whilst the policy 
required Mr S to provide  satisfactory proof of disability to make  a claim, including  
providing a certificate from his doctor,  it did not exclude back or mental  health  
conditions, or place any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  
requirements on claims relating to back and mental health issues  than would have 
applied to any other disability.     
24. It is also of note that the Important Notes section contains information about  C&Gs 
status when selling the policy:
C&G Payment Protection Plus has been  negotiated by Cheltenham & 
Gloucester plc, an agent of the insurer, TSB General Insurance Limited.  As an 
agent, Cheltenham & Gloucester plc has agreed to comply  with the Association 
of British Insurers Code of Practice for the Selling of General Insurance.  The 
insurer accepts  liability for C&Gs  activities in this connection.
d)  the complaint and Lloydss response
25. Mr Ss representative Claims Advice  Bureau (CAB) has made lengthy and substantia l 
representatio ns on his behalf.
26. I will not restate them  all here and I will refer to some of the specific  repre sentations 
they have made at relevant times in this decisio n. But I have read and considered 
them all carefully. In essence, Mr S says:
_Lloyds did not give him the information it should have  given him about the costs 
and benefits associa ted with the policy.
 Lloyds did not tell him about the poor value of the policy, which  is illustrat ed by 
the low claims ratio  for example the Competition Commission  reported that the 
average claims ratio for mortgage payment protection  insurance  was 28%, 
meaning that around 28p in every pound  was used to pay claims, the rest paid for 
costs, profits and commission. Lloyds claims ratio is below 10%. Lloyds failure 
to explain this to him was a breach of the common law duty of utmost good faith 
and of the FCAs principles, which require firms to treat customers  fairly.
 Lloyds did not tell him about the limitations affecting the policy,  in particular:  that 
the policy would  only pay out if Mr S was unable  to do both his own job and other 
work which the insurer thought  he was reasonably qualified to do; and that 
claims arising from back injury and mental health were  subject to restrictio ns and 
evidential requirements which signif icantly reduced the cover provided by the 
policy and the prospect s of making  a succe ssful claim. This reduced further the 
policys value, particularly as those conditions are the cause of the most 
common reasons for long term absence.
Ref: DRN29701505 The commo n law duty of utmost good  faith meant Lloyds should  have done 
more than simply  draw the limitations to his attention, it should also have  
explained the significance  of them  and the impact they would have on Mr Ss 
chances of making a claim.
 The policy was not suitable because it only protected payments for the short-
term, whereas a mortgage  is generally someones biggest ever long-term  
transaction. Evidence from the National Institute of Clinical Evidence (NICE) in 
2009 confirmed  that four out of five people who are off work for six months 
actually end up being off work for five years. Most  people  could cope with a 
relatively short-term absence such as the absence this policy  protected   using 
a combination of residual earnings,  savings, family  support and a helpful 
approach from the lender. But cover under the policy would cease  at just the 
time it would be most needed.
 These  policies were  promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of 
exclusions, limitations and restrictions on the scope of the cover meant that 
this was untrue.  The adviser knew how the insurance worked and he trusted 
the adviser and was entitled to rely on what was said.
 These  were  substantia l flaws  in the sale process.  Had he known the true cost 
of the policy,  the limits  on the cover  and its poor value,  he would not have  taken 
it out  that would have been  the logical outcom e, given the seriousness of the 
failings.
 In any event , the FCAs guidance at DISP App 3.6.2E makes  it clear  that it 
should be presumed  they would not have taken out the policy  unless there is 
evidence to outweigh  the presumption. I am required  to take that regula tory 
guidance into account when deciding what is fair and reasona ble and should not 
depa rt from it, other than in exceptional circumstan ces when  there is sufficiently  
good reason to take a different approach.
 Lloyds should pay comp ensation to put him in the position he would have been 
in if he had not taken  out the policy.
27. Lloyds says:
The sale took place in branch so it is likely that it would have provided Mr S with 
advice about the policy based on the information  he provided. 
 
Mr S was eligible for the policy and the paperwork suggests that Mr S was given 
a choice about whether or not to apply for it.
The policy was suitable  for him. Mr S had a need for the insurance to protect his 
payments should he not have been  able to work, he was not affected by the 
significant exclusions and limitations  and the policy  was affordable. 
It is more likely than not that the adviser  explained  the policy features and 
limitations to Mr S and gave him appropriate documentation before the sale 
concluded.
Ref: DRN29701506Mr Ss decision to take out the policy would not have changed if it had done 
more.
It was not required to disclose the commission it received.  
the parties representations in response to the provisional decision
28. Lloyds had nothing further to add following the provisional decision..
29. Mr Ss representative also had nothing further  to add following the provisional  
decision.
my findings
30. I have included only a summary  of the complaint,  but I have read and consider ed all 
the evide nce and arguments available to me from the outset,  in order  to decide  what  
is, in my opinion, fair and reaso nable in all the circumst ances of the case.
31. Mr Ss representative has made some comments about this service having a 
standardised approach to PPI cases. I can confirm that I have considered this 
complaint on the particular evidence of this case, including  Mr Ss individual 
circumstances and what he has said about the sale of the policy.
a)  relevant  considerations
32. When considering what  is fair and reasonable,  I am required to take into account 
relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards,  and codes of 
practice; and where appropriate, what I consider  to have  been  good industry practice 
at the time.
33. This sale took place  in 1999  before  the sale of general insurance products like this 
beca me regulated  by the Financial  Services Authority in January 2005 and before 
mortgage lending  became regulated in October  2004.  So the GISC code, the FSAs 
and FCAs overarching  Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB 
and ICOBS) are not applicable to this complaint. 
34. Mr S arranged additional  borrowing  in 2006 which  I am satisfied meant  the entire 
mortgage became  regulated at that time. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out at s140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment  
in Plevi n1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA 
recently about the handling of complaints about the non-disclo sure of commission  in 
the light of the Plevin  judgment, are not applicable.
35. But there were  a number of industry codes in existence at the time, which  I am 
satisfied are applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. In particular:
The Mortgage Code
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61
Ref: DRN2970150736. The Mortgage Code  was a voluntary code followed by subscribing lenders and 
mortgage intermediaries.  Whilst predominantly  about mortgage related matters, it 
also included some insurance related commitments.  
37. Among other things,  the Mortgage  Code said that when providing information to help 
customers choose a mortgage, subscribers would give customers:
a description of any insurance  services which we can arrange  (for example, 
buildings, contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance  be taken out and 
whose responsibility  it is to ensure that it is taken  out;
whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such insurance  must be arranged  
by us;
a general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees, early  repayment charges, legal fees and insurance 
premiums).
38. Subscribing  lenders  (but not mortgage  intermediaries) also agreed to comply  with 
relevant codes including the ABI Code (below).
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code
39. First introduced in 1989 and updated in March 1996, the ABI Code set out a 
framework of general principles within which ABI members  and intermediaries  were 
expected to sell general insurance,  including payment protection  policies  like this. 
Among other things it said, that:  
It shall be an overriding obligation of an intermediary at all times  to conduct business  
with utmost good faith and integrity.   
The intermediary should: 
ensure as far as possible that the policy proposed is suitable to the needs and 
resources of the prospective policyholder.
explain all the essential provisions of the cover afforded by the policy,  or 
policies, which he is recommending, so as to ensure  as far as possible that the 
prospective policyholder understands what he is buying.
draw attention to any restrictions  and exclusions  applying  to the policy.
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
40. The ABI also issued guidance  to member companies on the application  of the ABI 
code and a note summarising the main points  of that guidance.  
41. The Guidance  Notes  for Intermediaries issued in December 1994  included:
Ref: DRN29701508When selling insurance  intermediaries must
...2.5 Explain the essential provisions  of the insurance cover, draw attention to any 
restrictions and exclusions under it, as well as the consequences of non-disclosure
2.13 If an independent intermediary, disclose commission on request
42. The Resume for Intermediaries published  in July 1999  explained how insurers  
should interpret  some of the key requirements of the code including:
Explain all the essential provisions
It is necessary for the intermediary (insurer,  if dealing  direct) to provide an overview 
of the policy. The detail will vary depending on the particular class of insurance. 
However, the proposer  should have a reasonable understanding  of what  he is 
buying, whether  this is explained  orally or whether he is given a summary and his 
attention  drawn to the main points.  In this respect, it is important to recognise  the 
responsibility under the ABI Statement  of General Insurance Practice that insurers 
will work towards clearer policy  wordings
The intermediary is not expected to go through all the provisions and exclusions in 
detail. The important  feature is to identify  the level of cover  being provided (for 
example, in the case of household contents  whether it is indemnity  or new  for old), 
that the type of policy being  sold suits the circumstances of the proposer and the 
level of protection  they are seeking  as far as possible. It is not good enough simply to 
offer, for example,  an indemnity basis of cover  without explaining the limitations and, 
indeed, that other options are available, unless,  of course, the proposer wittingly asks 
for that type of cover.
Draw attention  to any restrictions and exclusions
The same general principles outlined above  apply equally here.  Certain exclusions, 
conditions, restrictions etc under a particular policy will be common to all 
policyholders, for example, a condition about fraud. In those circumstances, it would 
not be necessary  to identify these other than by reference to general exclusions 
applying to all policyholders  of a particular  type of insurance, either  orally  or in 
policyholder documentation.
However, some will be more relevant  and, indeed, significant to certain  but not other 
policyholders. An example would  be where  benefit  to self-employed people  is either 
excluded or severely  restricted for redundancy cover under a creditor  insurance  
policy. Clearly,  self-employed  people  should be made aware of this so they can 
decide whether  the other benefits under the policy and the premium to be paid 
justifies taking out such a policy.
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
43. The ABI also published a statement in December 1996 about  PPI. Among other 
things, it said:
Ref: DRN29701509Providers will give sufficient detail of the essential provisions of the cover afforded by 
the policy so as to ensure, as far as is possible,  that the prospective insured person 
understands what he/she is buying.  
In particular:
the suitability of a contract will be explained to those who are self-employed,  those on 
contract or part time work, and those with pre-existing medical conditions;
details of the main  features of the cover as well as important  and relevant  restrictions 
will be made available and highlighted at the time the insurance  is taken  out with full 
details being sent afterwards;
all written material will be clear and not misleading;
full details of the cover  will be provided as soon as possible after completion  of the 
contract.    
The ABI and CML Statement of Practice for Sales of Mortgage  Payment  Protection  
Insurance
44. The ABI jointly published a statement with the Council of Mortgage  Lenders in July 
1999. Among  other  things, it said:
Is the policy suitable for the consumer?
The ABI Code requires  sellers of MPPI to ensure as far as possible that the 
insurance policy being proposed is suitable for the prospective insured persons 
needs and resources.
This means  the customer  should be encouraged to assess the levels  of risks they 
face as a homeowner, and particularly  how they would keep up mortgage  
repayments if they lost their income  via unemployment or ill health. Issues that need  
to be addressed during the sales process  include:
security of the customers employment, bearing  in mind the duration of 
financial commitment they are about  to undertake,
what level of sick pay they could expect from their employer if they fell ill, and
whether they have  savings or alternative sources of income
This type of information will help customers  to decide whether they need MPPI,  and 
which kind of policy would  be best for them.
Does the customer understand  what  he/she  is buying?
Sellers of MPPI must explain  all the essential  provisions of the policy,  including  
restrictions and exclusion, at the point  of sale.
The key aims at the point of sale should  be to identify:
Ref: DRN297015010The level and type of cover being  provided. This includes benefit levels and 
whether they cover  disability and/or unemployment, length of time for which  
payments will be made and the duration of the policy in relation to the 
mortgage.
All the main restrictions and exclusions. These include any eligibility criteria, 
conditions relating to pre-existing health conditions, time limits relating to 
claim payments and age restrictions.
The needs  of individual  customers may vary. For example, self-employed  or contract 
workers will need to understand clearly any restrictions that apply to them  and affect 
their cover. Wherever possible,  sellers should  take account of individual  
circumstances and adjust  the information  they provide accordingly.
45. The other codes produced by the ABI supplemented the ABI Code and I consider 
them to be indicative of the standards of good  practice expected of intermediaries  like 
Lloyds at the time.
46. So I am satisfied  it is right that I should take them  into account, together  with the 
codes Lloyds subscribed to when deciding  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of Mr Ss case.
The law
47. I have also taken accou nt of the law, including : the law relating to neglig ence, 
misrepresentation and contract (including  the express and implied duty on 
professional  advisers to give advice  with reaso nable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good  faith; and the law relating  to causatio n and 
remoteness.
48. I have also considered carefully CABs representations about  the law, and complaints 
generally, as particularly set out in its letter dated 22 June  2018.
The FCA s guidance  for firms Handlin g PPI complaints  DISP  App 3
49. I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints 
relating to the sale of payment prote ction contr acts like Mr Ss.
50. The sale took place  before insurance mediation  became a regulated  activit y in 
January  2005,  so Lloyds was required to take into account  the evidential  provisions  in 
DISP App 3 as if they were guidance  when consid ering Mr Ss complaint.
51. I note DISP App 3 includ es guidance for firms about assessi ng a complaint in order  to 
establish whether  the firms conduct of the sale fell short of the regulator y and legal 
standards expected  at the time of sale  referre d to as breaches or failings. It did not 
impose new, retrospecti ve, expectations  about  selling  standards.
52. DISP App 3 also conta ins guidance  for firms  about determining the way the 
complainant would  have acted if a breach or failing by the firm had not occurred. In 
relation to that it says:
DISP App 3.1.3G
Ref: DRN297015011Where the firm determ ines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should 
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment 
protection contract in the absence of that breach or failing. This append ix 
establishe s presum ption s for the firm to apply about how the complainant 
would have acted if there had instead been  no breach or failing by the firm. 
The presu mptions are:
(1) for some breaches  or failings  (see DISP  App 3.6.2 E), the firm should 
presum e that the complainant would not have  bought the payment 
protection contract he bought; and
(2) for certain  of those  breaches or failings (see DISP  App 3.7.7 E), 
where the complainant bought a single premium payment protectio n 
contract, the firm may presume that the complain ant would have bought a 
regular premium payment prote ction contra ct instead  of the payme nt 
protection contract he bought.
DISP 3.1.4 G
There may also be instances wher e a firm concludes  after investiga tion that, 
notwithstan ding breach es or failings by the firm, the complainant would 
nevertheless still have proceeded  to buy the payment protection  contract  he 
bought.
DISP App 3.6.1E
Where the firm determ ines that there was a breach  or failing, the firm should 
consider whether the complainant would have bought the payment 
prote ction contract  in the absence of that breach or failing.
DISP App 3.6.2E
In the absen ce of eviden ce to the contrary, the firm should presum e that the 
complainant would not have bought the payment protection contract he bought  if 
the sale was substantially  flawed, for example where the firm:
(4) did not disclo se to the complain ant, in good  time before  the sale was 
concluded, and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleading,  the 
significant exclusions  and limitations, i.e. those that would tend to affect the 
decisio ns of custom ers generally to buy the policy;
(8) did not disclo se to the complain ant, in good  time before  the sale was 
concluded and in a way that was fair, clear and not misleadin g, the total (not 
just monthly) cost of the policy  separately  from any other prices  (or the basis  for 
calculat ing it so that the complainant could  verify  it);
(10) provided misleading or inaccurate  information  about the policy to 
the complainan t;
DISP App 3.6.3E
Relevant evidence might include the complainan t's demands, needs and 
intentions at the time of the sale and any other  relevant evidence, including any 
Ref: DRN297015012testim ony by the complainant about his reasons at the time of the sale for 
purchasing the paym ent protection contr act.
Overall
53. Taking the relevant considerations  into account, it seems  to me that the overarching  
questions I need to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable  in 
all the circumstances of this complaint, are:
 If Lloyds gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr S with reasonabl e care and skill  in 
particular, whether  the policy was appropriate  or suitable  for Mr S, given his 
needs and circumstances.
 Whether Lloyds  gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  
him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highligh ting  in a clear,  fair and not mislead ing way 
 the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
 If, having considered these question s, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr 
S, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.
54. Mr S says Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably  to have gone  further  than I have 
suggested. I shall address Mr Ss represent ations  about  this later on.
b)  the sale - what actually happened?
55. Mr S attended a meeting in a branch of Lloyds in April 1999. He was looking to take 
out a mortgage on the property he owned.
56. Mr S says the policy was sold in that meeting. He says that Lloyds advised him to 
take out the policy although it did not ask him about  any existing cover he might have. 
He says there was no discussion  about  what the policys  cover  and limitations.
57. Lloyds says that as the sale took place in a branch, an adviser would  have given 
advice and made recommendations based  on information  provided by Mr S. 
58. Lloyds has provided copies  of a number of documents relating to the sale of the 
mortgage and the PPI:
 The loan assessment form, completed on the interview date of 8 April 1999, 
which included a section headed sales. This included a series  of tick boxes 
which suggest that Mr S was sold Payment Protection Plus, but was using his 
own nominated  company for buildings and contents insurance. There  are some 
notes about the loan,  but no references  to the policy or what Mr S was told 
about it. 
 The mortgage application form, which Mr S signed on 8 April 1999. This 
included an insurance section that indicates that Mr S did not want  Lloyds to 
arrange his home insurance, but he wanted payment protection cover.  The form 
Ref: DRN297015013also suggests that Mr S had chosen  his mortgage based on information 
provided by Lloyds, but had not been given advice.
 
 The Payment  Protection Plus proposal  form which Mr S signed on 8 April 1999.  
This says the total amount of the loans to be covered by the policy was 
£24,250. The third section of the form deals with how the benefit of the cover 
should be split. It states that the first customer (Mr S) was to be insured for 
100% of the mortgage  costs. It included  the statement: Full details of the terms 
and conditions of this insurance  are contained  in the statement  of cover booklet  
which will be sent to you once your proposal for insurance has been accepted. 
The end section  of the form, headed office use only notes the cost as £12.13 
per month. Mr S signed a direct debit  mandate for the policy at the same time.
 The loan agreement (although this makes no mention of the policy).
 A second  Payment  Protection Plus proposal  form which  Mr S signed on 3 
December 1999. The insurer sent this to Mr S to sign and return because,  as 
the mortgage didnt complete until November 1999, the signature  on the original 
form (from April 1999) was over six months  old. This says the total amount of 
the loans to be covered by the policy was £24,000  (Im satisfied the policy  was 
set up to cover the actual mortgage  amount of £24,250)  Otherwise it contains 
the same  details as the earlier proposal form. Mr S signed a new direct debit 
mandate for the policy  at the same time.
59. Having considered the representations  of both sides  and keeping  in mind the 
limitations on the evidence available about what happened during a meeting nearly 
20 years  ago, I find:
Whilst it is possible that Lloyds  may not have provided any advice in this case, it 
is more likely than not that it did, given Lloyds  own representations  that it 
recommended the policy to Mr S.
It is more likely than not that there were some  discussions about  the policy 
Lloyds was recommending at the meeting between Mr S and the adviser. Mr S 
may not have known  all there was to know about the policy,  but it is unlikely he 
took out the policy without  knowing anything about  it at all. 
It is more likely than not that the full policy conditions were sent to Mr S after the 
meeting.
c)  did things  happen  as they should in 1999?
60. For reasons  I shall explain, I consider it is more likely than not that Lloyds fell short of 
what was reasonably expected of it. Exactly how, and the extent  to which,  Lloyds fell 
short and its relevance  to Mr S, is in my view important to my consideration of the 
questio n which ultimately lies at the heart  of this complaint: would Mr S have acted 
differently if Lloyds  had advised and explained things properly?
61. Having considered the evidence from the time of sale and the parties representations 
about what happened, I am satisfied it is more  likely than not that Mr S agreed to the 
policy Lloyds recommended knowing that he did not have to take it out and that it was 
separate to the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN29701501462. In reaching  that conclusion, I note the mortgage application form had a separate 
section entitled  Payment Protection  Insurance  with Yes and No boxes next to the 
statement:
I have received information about  C&G Payment Protection Plus.  I wish to apply for 
cover and have completed  the relevant proposal  form.
Whilst it appears the adviser  completed the application form for Mr S to sign (and it 
seems likely he/she ticked the Yes box), I am also mindful that: there were two 
options to choose from, there was a separate insurance proposal form and direct 
debit form, and Mr S retained his own home  insurance arrangements  - it would 
appear those arrangements were also discussed.  
63. On the balance of probabilities, I consider  it more likely than not that the adviser 
presented the policy as an optional extra to the mortgage, albeit insurance the 
adviser recommended Mr S take out. I am not persuaded  it is more  likely than not 
that the Lloyds adviser incorrectly (or inadvertently) told Mr S he had to agree to the 
payment protection policy for the mortgage to be approved or that the insurance  was 
an inseparable feature of the mortgage.
64. I have  concluded Lloyds recommended the policy to Mr S, so I consider it appropriate 
to consider whether it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in particular  
whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable  given his needs and circumstances.
65. I cannot say for certain  what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr S. Mr S says that his circumstances were  not 
discussed. The adviser had information  about some  of Mr Ss financial 
circumstances, but there is not any specific evidence  to show  that the adviser took 
steps to establish  whether Mr S would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. For 
example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mr S had any pre-
existing medical  conditions. 
66. Overall, I am not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that Lloyds did all it should  
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr S given his 
circumstances. So in that sense, I am not persuaded  Lloyds advised with reasonable 
care and skill.
67. Whilst I am not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done to determine  whether 
the policy was suitable for Mr S, I am satisfied it is more likely than not that the policy  
was ultimately suitable for him given what I am satisfied were  Mr Ss needs  and 
circumstances at the time. In reaching that conclusion I have taken into consideration:
Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr S had a need for the policy   Mr Ss finances would have been put under 
strain if he were  not working   even allowing for the sickness and redundancy 
benefits he was entitled to. The policy would have helped Mr S manage the 
consequences if he were unable to work.
The monthly premium of £12.13 was affordable for Mr S. While in relation to the 
mortgage itself but in my view supportive of my conclusion,  I can see the 
Ref: DRN297015015adviser also noted the following on the loan assessment form: Well within 
income multiplier at 1.51 + well within customers affordability.
The exclusions and limitations did not make the policy unsuitable for Mr S. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ss employment  or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for him to claim. Mr S did not have any pre-existing medical  
conditions and there were  no additional  restrictions on the cover  for mental 
health or back problems. 
Whilst the policy included a requirement  that Mr S be disabled  for 60 days  
before he could make a disability claim and would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: Mr 
Ss circumstances,  the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments 
relating to his house and the potential consequences should  Mr S be unable to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against his house.
68. I have  also considered whether  when  providing  advice Lloyds gave Mr S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy  to enable Mr S to understand what  
Lloyds was recommending to him and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.   
69. I am satisfied it is more likely  than not that Mr S was given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect his 
payments if Mr S was unable to work through accident, sickness  and disability) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think it is unlikely 
that Mr S would have  taken out the policy without any sense  of what the policy was 
for and of how much the premium might  be.
70. But the evidence from the time of sale does not tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions 
and limitations before  Mr S agreed  to take out the policy.  The limited  evidence there 
is (on the proposal form) suggests  that Lloyds relied on the terms and conditions set 
out in the statement of cover booklet sent to Mr S once the proposal  for insurance 
had been accepted  to deliver that information. 
71. Whilst I am satisfied  Lloyds sent Mr S the full policy  conditions  which  gave 
information about the benefits,  limitations and exclusions after he applied  for it, I do 
not consider that means Lloyds gave Mr S the information he fairly  and reasonably 
needed to make  an informed decision about whether to follow  the recommendation 
and take out the policy. I am mindful:
Mr S did not base the decision  he made  at the meeting to take out the policy  on 
the full policy  conditions.
There is nothing to suggest Mr S was forewarned that he should  delay making  
a final decision about the policy until he had received  and considered the 
contents of that document. 
It was incumbent on Lloyds to provide him with the most important information 
he required to make his decision before  he took out the policy (see the good 
practice I set out earlier).
Ref: DRN29701501672. Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  whilst I 
am satisfied that the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S, I am not 
persuaded Lloyds did enough to present information about the policy it was 
recommending in a way that was fair and reasona ble to Mr S. I am not persuaded 
Lloyds gave Mr S all of the information he needed about the policy to make  an informed 
decision about whether to follow  the recommendation and take out the policy. 
73. I have  considered how my findings  interact  with the FCA's list of significant failings  
in its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3.
74. It seems  to me that it would be reasonable to conclude that there were  significant  
failings in this case.  Lloyds did not for example  disclose to Mr S before the sale 
was concluded  and in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading the significant  
limitations and exclusions that would tend to affect the decision of customers  
generally to take out the policy [DISP App 3.6.2E (4)]. Lloyds may also have failed 
to disclose the cost information envisaged at DISP App 3.6.2E(8).
75. I have  considered carefully Mr Ss arguments  that Lloyds should have done  more 
than I have found it should  have  done  and provided additional information.  I have  
given particular thought to Mr Ss view that the common  law duty of utmost  good faith 
meant that:
Lloyds should  have explained the low claims ratio (and what  he considers to be 
the inherent poor value) and the fact much  of the premium went  to Lloyds rather  
than the insurer.
Lloyds should  have told him not just about the limitations and exclusions,  but also 
about the significance of them.
Lloyds did have to consider the features of the policy and weigh up the significance  of 
the exclusions and limitations to ensure the policy it was recommending  was suitable  
for Mr Ss needs and resource and it also had to explain  the features  of the cover.  But I 
am not persuaded by Mr Ss view about  what the duty of utmost  good  faith required.
76. Under the law which existed  at the time, both parties to an insurance contract owed a 
duty of utmost  good faith to the other.  By way of summary  only, both parties had 
duties to disclose  material facts and to refrain from making material  
misrepresentations to the other.
77. Usually, the focus of any dispute  tends to be on the extent of the obligations the duty 
of utmost good faith places on the person seeking  insurance  to disclose to the insurer  
the information it needs to determine and calculate the risk it will be taking if it agrees 
to provide the insurance.  
78. But an insurer also has a duty to disclose:
..all facts known to him which  are material either  to the nature of the risk sought  to be 
covered or the recoverability of a claim under the policy which a prudent insured  
would take into account in deciding  whether  or not to place  the risk for which he 
seeks cover  with that insurer.2 
2 Banque Keyser Ullmann SA v Skandia (U.K.) Insurance Co. Ltd [1990] 1Q.B.  665, 772 
Ref: DRN29701501779. MacGillivray  on Insurance Law3 explains that the duty does not extend to giving the 
insured the benefit  of the insurers market experience, such  as for instance, that the 
same risk could be covered for a lower premium either by another  insurer or, 
presumably, by the same insurer  under  a different type of insurance contract; and the 
insurer is not required to perform  the role of the insureds broker  in this regard.
80. I cannot be certain, but I think it is unlikely a court would conclude an insurer  should 
have disclosed the claims ratio and value information, or contextualised the 
information about the limitations on disability cover in the way Mr S say Lloyds should  
have done by virtue of the duty of utmost good faith. In any event, I do not think  it 
would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case  to impose such  
requirements on Lloyds.  
81. Lloyds was not the insurer in this transaction. Regardless, the ABI Code also referred 
to an overriding duty on the intermediary to act with utmost  good  faith and integrity.
82. The Guidance  Notes for Intermediaries and the Resume  for Intermediaries about the 
application of the ABI Code which I have referred to in this provisional  decision do not 
refer to that duty or elaborate on what it was intended to mean.  But I think it is unlikely 
that it was intended  to place a greater or substantially different obligation on the 
intermediary to that owed by the insurer. 
83. I consider it more  likely than not that the reference to an overriding duty on the 
intermediary was a reminder  of the importance  of disclosing material information to 
both the insurer  and the insured (depending on whom  the intermediary  was acting 
for), reflecting the legal  duty those parties were under.  And it seems likely  the 
provisions of the ABI Code were in effect  intended to be practical examples of how 
the intermediary might meet the overarching principles  of utmost  good  faith and 
integrity as well as expected standards of good  practice.
84. I also note there was no expectation at the time under the provisions of the ABI Code 
that insurers or intermediaries  should proactively disclose commission.   For example,  
the guidance to the ABI Code published  in December 1994 said only that 
independent intermediaries should disclose commission on request.
85. Nor do I consider it can reasonably be inferred from the ABI Statement of Practice for 
Payment Protection Insurance  (which gave further  information about the expectations 
in PPI sales) that insurers or intermediaries were expected to disclose the kind of 
information Mr S says Lloyds should  have done.
86. So it seems very unlikely that it was ever the intention of the ABI Code that 
intermediaries should provide the kind of additional information Mr S suggests it 
should. In any event, I am not of the view that it would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the case to impose  a greater or substantially different  obligation on 
the intermediary to that owed  by the insurer.  
87. Overall, taking into account the law, industry codes and standards  of good practice 
applicable to this complaint, I am not persuaded that Lloyds ought fairly  and 
reasonably to have  provided the additional  information Mr S says it should have 
done.
3 MacGillivray on Insurance Law 14th edition  17-094 
Ref: DRN29701501888. But for the reasons and in the ways I have set out, I find the information Lloyds gave 
Mr S was insufficient.  Lloyds failed  to explain in a clear way all the features of the 
policy it was recommending, so the information Mr S based his decision on was 
incomplete. I am not persuaded that was fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances.
e)  what effect  did Lloydss  shortcomings have on Mr S?
to what extent did Mr S suffer loss or damage  as a result?
 
89. I have  found  Lloyds  did not do all it should  fairly and reasonably  have done when it 
sold this policy to Mr S, so I have considered whether it would be fair and reasonable 
to conclude Mr S suffered  loss and damage as a result.
90. Whilst I am not persuaded that Lloyds  took the steps it should have done to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable for Mr S, I have  found  that the policy 
was ultimately suitable for him. 
91. In those circumstances, it seems to me that whether  or not Mr S has suffered loss 
or damage in this case  primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds had explained 
things properly, Mr S would  have acted differently, or whether he would have  
taken out the policy in any event?
92. Mr S says he would  not have  taken out the policy and I should, in any event, 
presume  that he would not have taken it out given the substantial  failings in the 
sales process I have identified (unless  Lloyds can produce evidence  to show  he 
would have taken  out the policy,  which Mr S says it cannot because its failings 
were so fundamental ).
93. I have  considered the representations  of both sides  and the evidence relating  to this 
carefully.
94. Deciding  whether to follow advice  to take out insurance requires the consumer to 
weigh up a number  of factors  befor e deciding whether to proceed.  
95. Effectively the consumer  has to weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of 
doing so given the benefits offered in return and the potential consequences they will 
suffer if they dont  have insurance  should  the risks come to fruition. That is why it was 
incumbent on the intermediary to provide the information about the policys  features  
when  recommending  the policy,  so the consumer could  make that assessment.
96. The evidence in this case suggests  that Mr S clearly had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection  insurance.  In saying that, I do not mean he actively  sought  
insurance or that it was his inten tion to take out insurance before he applied for the 
mortgage  I have  seen nothing to suggest he did.
97. Rather,  I mean when  Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would  protect his mortgage payments in the event  he was unable to work  
because of accident,  sickne ss or unemployment, that resona ted with him in some  way 
and he concluded that he wanted  that product.
98. The issue here is that the decision he made about whether to accept Lloyds  
recommendation was based on incomplete information, meaning  what he thoug ht he 
was getting is not exactly what he got. And he would have had different things to 
Ref: DRN297015019weigh up when deciding to take out the policy if Lloyds had told him everything it 
should have done about the policy it was recommending.
99. I consider that in deciding what is fair and reaso nable in this case and whether Mr S 
suffered loss or damage as a result, the evidence  about the extent to which the 
product differed from what Mr S might reasonably have expected from what he was 
told, is relevant to the consideration  of what would have  happened.
100. In this case, as I explained earlier, I am satisfied from the evidence about Mr Ss 
circumst ances  at the time of the sale that the policy was not funda mentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him.
101. Whilst Mr S was interest ed in the policy, was eligible and had good reason for wanting 
the cover provided by a suitable  policy, the policy did not work entirely as he might 
have thought.
102. Although I consider  it more likely than not that Mr S knew  he would have to pay 
something for the policy, it does not appear  Lloyds told him the exact premium at the 
point Mr S applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr S would have 
been told the cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of 
sale, it is possible he might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered 
his decision. 
103. Overall, I am not persuaded Mr S would have found the cost unacceptable if he had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which  he agreed to the policy.
104. In addition, I am not persuaded  Lloyds made  clear  exactly  what Mr S would get back 
in return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  it is unlikely  Mr Ss likely 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet his monthly mortgage payment) were significantly different to what 
the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy actually 
paid more in the event  of a claim than he would  have expected as there was an 
additional cash payment.
105. I am not persuaded Lloyds explained  the limitations and exclusions to Mr S either. 
But I do not think it is more likely  than not that the limitations and exclusions there  
were would have  dissuaded Mr S from taking out the policy.
106. Mr S did not for example have  any pre-existing  medical  conditions  and the policy  did 
not exclude back or mental health  conditions, or place  any additional  restrictions or 
more onerous evidential requirements,  in the event of a claim on those grounds,  than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim. And I think  it is unlikely Mr S would 
have expected to make  a disability claim on the policy without having to provide some 
evidence to support  that claim.
107. More significantly I am not persuaded Lloyds  told Mr S that any claim he made would 
be limited to a 12-month period. This may have  differed from what  Mr S expected.  But 
12 months was a longer period than Mr S would  have received full sick pay for.  
108. In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr S would still have thought a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would have been of benefit to him and 
would help him manage the consequences  should he be unable to work  in the 
Ref: DRN297015020circumstances covered by the policy. The policy would  help reduce  his outgoings at a 
difficult and uncertain  time,  ensure that his home was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Ss limited sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
109. So, whilst Mr S did not know some things about the policy,  I am satisfied the ultimate 
positio n in the event  of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what he would 
reasona bly have thought from the advice and information he based  his decision to 
take out the policy on and found acceptable.
110. The terms  of the policy also differed  from what Mr S might have expect ed because  Mr 
S could only claim for disability if he was unable to do both his own job and a 
reasonable alternative. If Mr S had known this, it may have played into his thinking  
about what he would have done.   
111. Mr S provided information  in the PPI questionnaire about what  he would have done 
with more information, which I have considered carefully. He says:
I am unhappy with the insurance for the following reasons: I was never asked 
whether I had any existing cover  for my finances and I was never informed that I 
could purchase the same cover elsewhere. Also I do not feel I had the terms and 
conditions properly explained to me because I was not informed that there  would be 
an additional  interest charge for the insurance. What has disappointed me the most  
is the fact that an additional interest charge was in place  on the insurance when I 
was covered  by my employer through sick pay and did not need the banks cover 
provided.
I had sick pay provided  by my employer  at the rate of 6 months full pay, 6 months 
half pay. I had redundancy cover in place  via my employer, providing cover for both 
voluntary and not voluntary redundancy. I had savings  that could have been used 
alongside my existing cover.
There was no discussion about  what I would not be covered  for and the limitations of 
the insurance, had I of known the poor value of the insurance and the fact that I 
would not be covered  for some  of the most common ailments  that is the primary 
cause of time off work, like back ache and stress, I would not have gone ahead  with 
the purchase. The fact is, this was not discussed. I was not informed that I could  
arrange my own cover,  I am a Union member and part of my membership  is that I 
can purchase cheaper insurance through my union  than that available  on the high 
street. As I was not informed of this, I was deprived of being  able to shop around.
112. Mr S is effectively saying that as a result of what  he now knows, both about  what  he 
considers should have  happened and what he should have decided at the time, he 
would not have  taken out the policy .
113. In light of the findings I have already made, I do not think  Mr Ss represe ntations  
demonstrate what he claims because much of the information he says would have 
affected his decision  would not have been known to him at the time of the sale if 
everything had happened as it shou ld. And some of the things he has mentioned  
would not have been relevant to the decision he was making. For example:
Ref: DRN297015021There was no legal,  regulatory, code, or good practice requirement on 
Lloyds to disclose  the commission it received.
I am satisfied the require ment on Lloyds  in 1999  was to consider the features 
of the policy  and weigh up the significance of the exclusions and limitations 
to ensure the policy it was recommending was suitable for Mr Ss needs  and 
resources and it also had to explain the features of the cover  as I have 
discussed.
The policy did not  as I have already explained  restrict claims based on 
back or mental health conditions, unless they were pre-existing conditions.
The policy was paid for by regular monthly  premiums and therefore did not 
attract interest.
114. I am also mindful  that: Mr Ss recolle ctions of the sale are, owing to the significant 
passage of time, likely to be limited and his represen tations about what  he would have 
done are made in supp ort of a claim for compe nsation.
115. In deciding with appropriate information whether to follow  the recommendation to take 
out the policy, I consider it fair and reasonable to think  Mr S would have weighed up 
various other considerations, in particular  his financial circumstances and how they 
would be affected if he was not working. It is likely he would also have thought about 
whether the cost to benefit proposition still worked for him.
116. Having considered  all of the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr S would  still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  
for him, was sufficien tly close to what he thought  he was getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help him manage the consequences were he made redundant, or be 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more 
likely than not that Mr S would have taken out the policy in any event.
117. I have considered Mr Ss representa tions  about  causation and DISP App 3, including  
the general opinion of Stephen Knafler  QC referred to by CAB on behalf of Mr S. 
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consider ation I take into acco unt along 
with many other things  when  I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonab le.
118. I am mindful of the purpose of the guidance. I dont think  it was ever intended to be at 
odds with the approach I have taken. FSA explained its thinking in the policy 
statement4 at the time:
we have taken  as a starting point the typica l approach in law (which we 
understand also to be the FOSs general approach) that the custom er should be put 
in the posit ion they would  have been in if there had been no failure to comply with 
its obligations on the part of the firm. Typically that involve s considering  what the 
custom er would have  done but for the firms breach  or failing.  Firms have also 
been making  such but for judgements for many years, it being  the basic tenet of
4 Financial Services  Authority Policy Statement 10/12 The assessment and redress of Payment 
Protection Insurance complaints  Feedback on the further consultation  in CP 10/6 and final 
Handbook text  page  43 to 45
Ref: DRN297015022complaint handling. Complaints about PPI are not new or unusual  in this 
respect. We are satisfied  that the but for test is a reasona ble one in the 
circum stances.
The presumptions represent a way of judging what a customer would generally 
have done, in our view.  Havin g given  due consideratio n to responses concern ing 
presum ption s we remain of the view that the presu mptions we have set out are 
reasonable ones  fully in the tradition of, and informed by, the kinds of judgements 
that courts and ombudsmen  have long and often  been making when assessing  
claims and complaints  and the poten tial need  to put the claimant, as far as 
practicable , back  in the position they would have been in had the breach not 
occurred.
We also recognise that it would not be possible to establish in every case what a 
custom er would have  done in every individua l circum stance and that there has to 
be scope for a firm to depart from the presum ptions.  So, the presum ptions are 
rebuttable   that is, it is open to the firm to evidence that the custo mer would have 
bought the policy notwith standing the breach  or failing, in which case  no redress  will 
then be required.
119. It also said:
A recording  of the sale is not essent ial to rebut the presum ptions.  Where it is not 
available, firms must fairly assess the available evidence to make a decision about 
what they think  would likely have happened,  but for the failing, given the 
circum stances and the evidence  from the sale. For exam ple, if the firm failed to 
disclo se the existence of an exclu sion relating  to pre-existing medical conditions,  
then it may be reasonab le for the firm to rebut the presum ption that the custom er 
would not have  bought  the policy if it can be shown that the custom er did not have 
a pre-existing medical condition. It is unlikel y that a recording of the sale would 
illicit this inform ation.  The PPIQ, if properly completed, will however provide this 
inform ation.
We have  carefully considered,  in light of respo nses, the proposed list of 
substantial  flaws in the proposed Handbook  text. We are satisfied that the 
rebuttable presum ption s cover substantial flaws and that our proposals  are 
appropriate because  in each case the nature of the failing raises serious doubts  
over whether the custom er would have proceeded with the purchase if there had 
not been such a failing.
It is true that the presumptions do not make allowance for the materiality  of the 
failings. We consider that the failings amount to substantia l flaws irrespe ctive 
of their materia lity to particular consumers, and that it is reasonable and simpler 
for our guidance not to differenti ate the failings in terms of materiality.  In 
practi ce, firms are likely to be able to factor in considera tions of materiality 
when potentially rebutting the presum ptions in the case of a particular 
complaint.  For exam ple if a firm failed to disclose an exclusion, and if that 
exclusion  did not apply  to that customer at the time of the sale (som ething 
which can be eviden ced relatively straightfor wardly  with reference to the 
policy), it may be reasonable  for the firm to conclude (assum ing there are no 
other failing s) that the exclusion was not material to that customer and that he 
Ref: DRN297015023would have boug ht the policy anyway, notwithstandi ng the firms failure to 
disclo se the exclusion
120. I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance  to this complaint 
might lead to. In the language  of DISP App 3, I have found it would be reasonable to 
conclude there were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, 
DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the payment 
protection insurance  he bought unless, in the particular circumstances of the 
complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption.
121. I am satisfi ed, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption is 
rebutted in the particular facts  and circumstances of this complaint. Based on the 
evidence pertaining  to Mr Ss circum stances  I have consider ed above, I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S found  himself in as a result of the sale was 
the same position he would have  been in had the breach or signif icant failings not 
occurred.
122. But even  if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms  set out at DISP  App 3 
(which I dont consid er I am), I am doing so because  I do not consider, in this case, 
that it would represent  fair compensation to put Mr S in the position  he would  have 
been in if he had not bought the policy.
123. That is beca use, whilst I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibiliti es, it is more  likely than not that he would 
still have taken out the policy  if his needs had been assessed correctly  and he had 
been given clear, fair and not mislead ing information  about the policy he was buying.
124. I am satisfi ed it would not be fair and reasonable in those circumstances to conclud e 
Lloyds should pay Mr S redress, as that would put him in a better positio n than he 
would have  been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
125. It follows from my findings that on the balance of probabiliti es it is more  likely than not 
that Mr S would have taken out the policy if things had happ ened  as they should. I am 
not persuaded he has suffered loss or damage as a consequence of the way this 
policy was sold.
126. Mr Ss representative has referred to the Plevin  judgment,  quoting a select  passage  
from it, and asked  me to consider  how the wider considerations about fairness are 
relevant to Mr Ss complaint. I have  already  explained why I dont consider the Plevin 
judgment to be applicable to Mr Ss complaint. In any event, Ive considered the 
submissions made  by CAB and they have not changed my view about  what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ss complaint.
127. I have thought about whether it would be appropriate to make an award of some kind 
because of the flaws  I have identifie d in the sale process even though  I have found Mr 
S would still have taken  out the policy. I have not seen  anything  in the evidence 
relating to this case which leads me to conclude that Mr S suffered material distress or 
inconvenien ce because of the way the policy was sold or any other form of non-
pecuniary financial loss. In those  circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair to 
make an award.
my final decision
Ref: DRN297015024128. Overall, having consider ed all the evidence  and arguments to decide what is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasona ble in all the circumstan ces of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have set out in detail  above, my final decisio n is that I do not make an 
award or direction in favour of Mr S.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2970150