K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank  of Scotland  plc has paid to Miss S 
in respect of mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI).  
I know that when  PPI was sold to Miss S, BOS was trading as Halifax.  However, Ill refer to 
BOS for the rest of this decision because it is responsible for complaints  like this about Halifax.  
background
After Miss S made a complaint to this service, the parties now agree that PPI was mis-sold 
alongside a credit card in 2003. BOS offered to pay £475.88  (after tax) to compensate 
Miss S for that mis-sale. 
Miss S didnt agree with BOS offer. I can see she asked our adjudicator to look again  at the 
calculations BOS had made. She also disagreed with BOS decision to deduct  from her 
compensation the amount  she received when she made a successful PPI claim. 
Our adjudicator looked at the offer and he thought it was fair. In response, Miss S reiterated 
her disappointment about the deduction for the PPI claim. She also did not think  the 
commission issue had been adequately  addressed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered with care all of the information the parties have sent to us. Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss S. But taking account  of all the evidence before me, Ive decided that the 
offer BOS  made to settle her complaint was fair. Ill explain why below. 
I dont need to consider how PPI was sold to Miss S  thats because the parties already 
agree that it was mis-sold.  Im looking at whether BOS has done  enough to put things right 
for Miss S. 
There are three issues for me to look at in connection with this complaint: whether BOS 
calculation of compensation was fair; whether BOS was right to deduct the amount Miss S 
had received from a successful PPI claim from her compensation; and whether she should  
receive an additional refund for commission. Ive dealt with each matter  in turn below. 
Was the compensation calculated fairly?
When a business  makes an offer to settle  a PPI mi-sale complaint, as far as possible, I 
would expect it to put the consumer back in the position they would be in if the PPI hadnt 
ever been  sold to them. For credit cards, a business  must refund all of the PPI premiums  
that were charged  to the account,  alongside  any additional interest  that was paid because  of 
those premiums. It has to pay pack any fees or charges that were  directly caused by the 
PPI. In addition, a business will need to pay 8% simple interest to a consumer for the time 
theyve been out of pocket because of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN20855102Ive looked at the way BOS calculated Miss S refund and it is generally in line with what Id 
expect to see. I can see that it has reworked Miss S card history  to show how the account 
would have probably looked  without  PPI. When reworking the account, it has taken the PPI 
premiums off and also worked out the extra interest  she paid because of those premiums. 
I can also see that it has calculated 8% simple interest to compensate Miss S for being out 
of pocket because  of the PPI. 
So I think BOS calculation is fair up to that point. But BOS went  on to then deduct what 
Miss S got from a successful PPI claim from its offer of compensation. And Ive considered 
whether that was fair below.  
Deducting the value of the successful claim
 
The question for me now is whether BOS acted  fairly when it deducted how much Miss S 
received from her PPI claim  from its offer of compensation.  Miss S said that compensation 
for mis-sold  PPI and her successful claim were  separate matters. Her view was that the 
issues should not be combined.  
As I said above, when  making an offer to settle  this complaint, Id expect,  as far as possible,  
for BOS to put Miss S in the position she would be in if PPI had never  been  sold to her. 
BOS calculated that Miss S had received £4381.20 from her successful claim between 2011 
and 2012. So if shed never  had a PPI policy, she would never have  received  that £4,381.20. 
If I tell BOS to refund  all of her premiums and ignore  the value of that claim, that wouldnt put 
her back  in the position she would have been in if PPI hadnt been sold to her  she would 
have all of her premiums back and also have benefitted from the successful claim. 
My role in this case is not punitive. I can see that BOS has already calculated  8% simple 
interest to compensate  Miss S for the time she was out of pocket and couldnt  benefit from 
the amount shed  paid for her premiums. In making  my decision,  I have  to look at whats  fair 
for both parties. Taking account  of all the circumstances, I dont think that requiring BOS to 
now pay all of the premiums back to Miss S when she has benefitted from a successful  claim 
would be fair. 
Commission 
In her response to our adjudicator, I can see that Miss S queried why she wouldnt get any 
compensation for any commission she paid alongside her PPI premiums.  Ive  thought  about  
what Miss S said. But Ive set out below why I dont  think any more  redress  is due because 
of this. In summary,  thats because the profit share  and commission  has already been  
included in BOS  offer above. Ill explain more about  this below. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) provided  guidance and rules on how businesses  
should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains  about  the sale of PPI. 
It referred to a two-step  approach. 
The first step was that a business should look to see whether  a policy  was mis-sold and 
whether the consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy  they did. If the policy 
wasnt mis-sold,  the second  step was to look to see whether the level of undisclosed 
commission (and profit share)  received by the business created an unfair relationship 
between the consumer and the business.
Ref: DRN20855103The rules  say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission  (and profit  share)  
charged if it upheld  the consumers  complaint that PPI had been  mis-sold (step  1). In other 
words, if a business finds a consumer  wouldnt  have  bought  the PPI they did and offers  to 
put things right on that basis,  it doesnt need to go on to look at any complaint about  
commission (step 2).
So here, Im satisfied Miss S made a complaint about a mis-sale of PPI. BOS agreed it was 
mis-sold in November 2018  and as set out above,  it made an offer to settle the complaint. 
When BOS had investigated the sale of the policy and upheld  it in November 2018, it is 
important to note that the compensation offer to Miss S included  all of the commission on 
and profit share BOS received. So BOS didnt have to go on and consider whether the 
relationship was unfair. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Miss Ss particular complaint and 
circumstances that means BOS  should do something differently and I dont think  there is. 
BOS has done  what the rules  it must  follow tell it to do. So I dont need  to tell it to do 
anything more.  
I am sorry  to disappoint Miss S. I have  thought  carefully about all of the issues  she has 
raised. But having done so, I think the offer BOS made to settle her complaint was fair. 
Having said that, I can see that BOS  offer of 8% simple interest was calculated in November 
2018. BOS will need to rework that calculation to take account  of when Miss S will receive  
that interest.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 December  2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2085510