K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about how Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) dealt with her chargeback.
background
Ms S bought a car from a company I will call C in 2017. She paid a deposit of £250  on 27 
November 2017  and the balance with another debit card.  Ms S says the car was faulty and 
C refused to take any responsibility for it. She says she was told to return the car but C 
refused to take it and has an e-mail exchange as evidence of that refusal.
Ms S asked BoS to make a chargeback  request which it did. But it said it had been  refused 
as Miss S hadnt  returned  the car. Ms S says BoS hasnt provided the correct information to 
the card provider and withheld information from it which may have led to her chargeback 
being refused.  She also says the car cost about  £1,300 to repair and she would like 
compensation for that as well as for her distress  and inconvenience.
BoS says its not responsible for the chargeback rules or the decision to reject the 
chargeback. It says C defended the chargeback and the card provider scheme found in its 
favour. BoS says the reasons given were that the car was in Ms Ss possession  and C 
hadnt had a chance to inspect it before it was taken to another garage.
Ms S didnt accept that view and questioned if all of the information she provided was used 
to support her chargeback. She brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  that BoS hadnt made a mistake. She 
thought there wasnt evidence  in the e-mail exchange that C had refused to take the car 
back. And thought BoS had taken the chargeback as far as it could.
Ms S doesnt accept  that view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to similar 
overall conclusions  that BoS hasnt acted unfairly and has tried to assist  Ms S. I realise  Ms S 
will disappointed  by my decision  and I appreciate  how strongly she feels  about whats  
happened.
As Ms S knows  the chargeback rules are set by the card providers and not as in this case 
BoS. It is an informal process with no guarantee of success. We would normally expect a 
bank or building society to raise  a chargeback where appropriate and I can see thats what 
happened here.
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card schemes rules, not
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for BoS  or me  to
decide whether  the chargeback should have succeeded. BoSs role is to raise the 
appropriate chargeback, and consider whether any filed defence complies with the relevant 
chargeback rules. From what  Ive seen, thats what  BoS did here.
Im satisfied that BoS raised the chargeback but C provided conflicting information.  C said 
the car wasnt defective when it was sold and it hadnt been given an opportunity to examine 
Ref: DRN23715662the car before Ms S obtained a third party report on it. So I think  the card provider has made  
a finding based on consideration of both sides representations.
In those circumstances I cant fairly  find that BoS was responsible for that finding or could 
have done any more to progress Ms Ss chargeback.
I accept that BoS may have confused maters by attempting  to interpret  the reasons for the 
chargeback rejection. But I think that was done in an attempt to assist  Ms S. Overall Im 
satisfied BoS provided the card provider with the information and reasons for the chargeback 
but it was successfully defended. Ive not seen any evidence BoS withheld evidence that 
supported Ms Ss position.
Ive looked at the e-mail exchange  between C and Ms S and I dont think they provide direct 
evidence that Ms S tried to return the car but C refused. I think the e-mails highlight  the 
dispute between  the parties but do not provide that direct evidence  of a refusal to allow the 
car to be returned as Ms S believes. In any event  for the reasons Ive explained I dont think  
a chargeback would have  succeeded even if the e-mails contained that information as C 
raised a number of other points which the card provider accepted which BoS could have no 
control over.
I appreciate Ms Ss frustration in buying a car that required  expensive  repairs within a 
relatively short period  of time. But I dont think BoS couldve done any more  to assist her 
under the chargeback rules and no doubt  she will consider an alternative  course  of action  to 
try and resolve matters.
I can see that it appears that the deposit  of £250  was made  with her BoS debit card and the 
larger balance paid with a different account card outside  our jurisdiction. I cant fairly 
comment on any other possible  complaint that Ms S may have made.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2371566