K820x#14complaint
Miss K says Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Zebit) irresponsibly  lent to her. She says that she 
couldnt afford the loan repayments at the time of sale. She thinks Zebit shouldve found out 
about this and not lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about an instalment loan for £420  that Zebit provided to Miss K in 
November 2013.  It had a term of 211 days and it was set up to be repaid in seven monthly 
instalments of around £130. I understand that Miss K has been unable  to make the loan 
repayments and the outstanding debt is now with a third party.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ks complaint as she didnt think Miss K had been  treated 
unfairly. Miss K disagreed, she said that she had payday loans with other businesses and 
was reliant on short  term lending. It shouldve looked into this and not lent to her. It shouldve  
looked at more than income  and expenditure as she was a new customer.  
Miss K asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint and it has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Zebit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss K could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Zebit should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN20722042In the loan application Miss K said she had a monthly disposable income,  after her normal  
expenditure, of around £500. So its reasonable to say that the loan repayments  wouldve 
seemed affordable to Zebit. 
Miss K says the information  Zebit had wasnt reflective of her actual financial situation. 
Essentially she says she had other debts, and financial problems, which  meant it was 
unlikely that shed be able to afford the loan repayments. 
But Zebit relied  on the information  it had been  provided. Given the size of the repayments  
against Miss Ks declared income and outgoings, and that the loan was due to be repaid 
over a shorter term, I dont think that this was unreasonable. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Zebit was made aware  of any 
financial problems Miss K mightve  been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate her circumstances  further.  
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Zebit  did for this loan was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable. So Im not upholding Miss Ks 
complaint. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss K. And Im sorry to see that her financial 
situation isnt good. But I hope  that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
And I would remind Gain  Credit of its duty to treat Miss K positively and sympathetically. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2072204