K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about the exchange rate HSBC UK Bank Plc applied  to an international 
payment he received.
background
On 12 April 219 Mr A received a payment of around $33000 for work he had undertaken. 
This payment was received  after the relevant cut-off time for processing. So, HSBC 
processed it on the next working day, which was 15 April. 
When HSBC converted  Mr As payment from Dollars to Sterling it applied an exchange rate 
of 1.3383. This resulted  in just under £25000 crediting Mr As account. But this was £550  
less than Mr A was expecting.
Mr A wasnt  happy about this so he contacted HSBC to raise  concerns about the amount of 
money that had credited his account. But it didnt think it had done anything  wrong  because  
it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr As account  in applying its own 
exchange rate to the transaction, which it refers to as the HSBC UK Exchange  Rate.
Mr A wasnt  happy with HSBCs response  to his complaint and referred it to our service.  He 
felt HSBC hadnt been clear about the exchange  rate it would apply to his payment.  And to 
resolve his complaint he wanted HSBC to compensate him the £550 loss he feels  he 
incurred. He also wanted our service  to tell HSBC to change  the way in which it informed 
customers about the exchange  rate it applies.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and empathised with him. Overall, they didnt 
think HSBC had acted  unfairly or unreasonably,  or needed to do anything more. But Mr A 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The crux of this complaint is whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in applying the 
exchange rate it did. Ive carefully considered what HSBC and Mr A have said here.  And I 
understand that Mr A is frustrated by the exchange  rate applied by HSBC to his payment. 
But Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
There isnt a single exchange rate for a currency that banks must track  or replicate because 
each bank sets its own exchange rate, which is based on market  conditions. So, exchange  
rates can differ  from bank to bank.  
Here, HSBC applies its own exchange rate at the point  that money is received. HSBC calls 
this the HSBC  Exchange Rate , which is derived  from the market rate with its own margin  
applied. This explains  why whilst its possible to see higher exchange rates elsewhere HSBC 
will use its own rate.
Mr A believes the information HSBC  provides  about  its exchange  rates is unclear. He thinks  
reference to an HSBC exchange  rate is ambiguous and misleading  and he wants  the way in 
which this information  is presented online and in customer  documentation to be changed.
Ref: DRN29386392With this in mind Ive thought about  whether the information about  exchange  rate is 
ambiguous and potentially misleading to customers.  But Id like to make it clear to Mr A that 
our service  cant  tell a bank how information  should be presented to a customer on its 
website or in the documentation it produces because thats a matter  for the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. So, I dont have the power to tell HSBC  to change  the way it 
presents exchange  rate information  to its customers in the way Mr A would like. 
The terms and conditions  that apply to Mr As account clearly outline  that any funds received 
in a foreign currency  will be converted into Sterling first using the HSBC Exchange Rate  at 
the time it receives  the cash. This persuades me that HSBC provides its customers  with 
clear and unambiguous  information that it will use its own exchange rate to convert foreign 
currency into Sterling. It follows that I think Mr A ought reasonably  to have known  this. And I 
also think if he wasnt sure what this meant it would have been reasonable for him to contact 
HSBC to check before he received his payment in Dollars. So, I cant  fairly find that HSBC 
did anything wrong  or that it gave Mr A ambiguous  or misleading information.
HSBC received Mr As funds on 12 April. But it couldnt convert the money it received  until 
15 April 2019 due to it being received after the relevant cut-off  time for processing. It 
converted Mr As money during the next working day. And I can see that HSBC  converted 
those funds from Dollars to Sterling using an exchange rate of 1.3383. HSBC has shown our 
service evidence that this rate was its own historical exchange rate from 15 April 2019. 
Based on the evidence  Ive seen Im satisfied  that when HSBC  converted the money Mr A 
was paid it used  the exchange  rate that applied at the time the money was received.  This is 
in line with its procedure  for payments like this. As HSBC has acted  in line with the terms of 
Mr As account in applying this exchange rate I cant fairly find its done anything wrong.
I understand Mr As frustration that he feels hes lost out on £550 as a result of the exchange 
rate HSBC  used. While he wants HSBC to disclose the margin  it applies to exchange rate 
transactions its declined to share  this as thats  commercially sensitive information. I can 
understand that Mr A feels this is unfair. But HSBC is under no obligation  to tell Mr A its 
margin, as much as he wants to know. Our service cant  tell it to share this information  with 
him and I dont think itd be fair for me to ask HSBC to elaborate any further.
I can see that HSBC has suggested  that Mr A may wish to consider opening an HSBC 
Currency Account in US Dollars for any future  inward payments in that currency.  I think this 
is reasonable advice because that should  avoid  any concerns he may have about  receiving  
a payment in Dollars  in the future.  
Finally, Mr A has referred  our service to some  examples of fines  imposed against banks in 
relation to foreign exchange  transactions. But this service considers complaints on an 
individual basis. So its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mr A has 
raised. And its also not our role to punish businesses. 
I appreciate that Mr A feels very strongly  about the issues raised in this complaint  and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. While I appreciate the reasons why he brought  
his complaint to our service Im satisfied  that HSBC hasnt done anything  wrong. It acted  
fairly and reasonably here. So, Im not going ask it to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN29386393my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2938639