K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 2001 alongside a credit card. Mrs H, who is represented by a third party, says 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. From what Ive 
seen about the card application process,  I think Mrs H made a decision to take out the 
policy when she applied  for the credit  card by post. Ive seen that on her application form 
shed ticked a box to show she wanted to take out PPI. And I think, given  that she filled 
out the application in her own time, she had the opportunity  think about whether she 
wanted PPI to go with her new card and decided she did. 
 BoS say it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so didnt  have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs H got the information she needed  to decide if 
she wanted to buy the PPI. Ive seen that the application form had some basic 
information about the cost of the cover plus it looks as if BoS provided her with the policy  
details alongside  her application form.
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it would have 
been useful to her if something went wrong.  I say this because although Mrs H has told 
us she enjoyed good benefits from her employer  of up to six months  full pay if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness - the PPI would also pay out in addition  to 
and most  likely for longer than her employer would.  And it would also pay out if she lost 
her job. So she wouldnt have to rely on other sources of funding to help out. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Mrs G off taking  out the cover.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  And although Ive thought  about  the points 
made by those representing Mrs H in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  they dont affect 
my decision.  
So BoS doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to 
give Mrs H back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN23944812From what  Ive seen, it looks as if BoS will have paid this to Mrs H by now,  but if not BoS can 
make arrangements  to pay the offer sum to Mrs H now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2394481