K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about how Aviva Insurance  Limited has handled his claim for a damaged 
door under his home  insurance policy.
background 
In early 2018, Mr Ss front door was damaged during a burglary. Aviva  arranged for its agent  
(who Ill refer to as B) to repair the door.  
Everyone agreed that the repairs hadnt been done  to a satisfactory standard.  B initially said 
it would  only replace the door frame as the door was fit for purpose. But Aviva agreed to 
cover the cost of a replacement door as well.
Mr S exchanged several emails with B and Aviva regarding his requirements for the door.  Mr 
S complained to Aviva that the specification B had sent him wasnt  fit for purpose and it was 
taking too long. Aviva offered Mr S the choice between a cash settlement or for B to do the 
work. Mr S said he wanted  B to replace the door.  
A few months later, after further correspondence  with Mr S, B told Aviva  it wasnt  willing to 
carry out the repairs anymore. Aviva  offered  Mr S a cash settlement for £3,731.34 and told 
him this was the only way his claim could be progressed. Mr S didnt  accept the cash  
settlement because he wanted  B to carry out the repairs. He brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ss complaint. He said he didnt think  Aviva had treated Mr Ss 
situation sympathetically. He said Aviva  should either arrange for Mr Ss door and door frame  
to be replaced, or for him to be reimbursed the cost of organising  it himself.  He also 
recommended Aviva  pay £250  for distress  and inconvenience.
Aviva accepted our investigators view. Mr S had already arranged for his door to be 
replaced before our investigator had sent his view,  so Aviva offered to pay the £2,182  it had 
cost him. And it paid him £250 for distress  and inconvenience.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Avivas offer. He said his replacement  door was of inferior quality to 
his original door. So, he didnt feel that Aviva reimbursing him for this was putting  him back in 
the position he was in before the burglary. He said the door B had left him with wasnt  
secure, so hed had to replace it. He couldnt leave the door unsecured while  he waited for a 
decision from us. He wasnt  able to replace the door with one of the same  quality as the 
original because it was a specialist job, beyond his capability, budget and timeframe.
Mr S also mentioned issues with his burglar alarm  and out of pocket expenses. He said B 
discarded parts of his burglar alarm with the broken  door.  He arranged a temporary  
workaround to address  the damage  but it proved unworkable and his burglar alarm has not 
worked properly since  Bs substandard work. He also said B had offered him £50 for out of 
pocket expenses, but these had never been paid to him.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 December 2019 where  I explained why intended  to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN24677162The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer should handle  claims promptly  and fairly.
Both parties  agree that the initial repairs to Mr Ss door werent completed to a satisfactory  
standard. This was distressing for Mr S who was concerned for his familys safety and well-
being, after a traumatic event. It meant that Mr S was left with a door which  he felt was 
unsecure and he had the inconvenience to trying to arrange for it to be repaired again. I think 
the £250 Aviva has paid Mr S since he brought his complaint  to us is fair compensation for this.
The policy terms say that Aviva can choose  to settle  a claim by replacing, reinstating, 
repairing or payment.  They go on to say that replacement will be on a like for like basis or 
based on the nearest equivalent  available in the current  market.
This means  Aviva was allowed to choose  how to settle the claim. So, I think  it acted fairly 
when it offered Mr S a cash settlement.
The policy terms also say if we can repair or replace  property but agree to make a cash  or 
voucher settlement we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it. But it 
was Avivas choice to make the cash settlement (rather than Mr Ss) so in this case  a fair 
settlement would need to reflect the likely cost to Mr S of replacing the door with one of a 
similar standard to his original door. 
I dont know how Aviva arrived at the £3,731.34 it offered Mr S. But it must  have  thought it 
was a reasonable amount  to settle the claim.  And Mr S hasnt disagreed with the amount of 
the settlement.  From what I understand, he rejected Avivas initial offer because he wanted it 
to arrange the replacement  of the door. Mr S says the door was a specialist job. He felt it 
would be difficult for him to arrange this himself.
Aviva says its no longer  willing to pay Mr S the £3,731.34  it previously offered. It says it will 
only consider the cost Mr S paid for the door hes installed  because it was Mr Ss decision to 
do so. But Mr S says he installed the lower  quality door because he was worried about 
security and he didnt  have the capability  or budget to install a door that was of the same  
quality as his original door.
Keeping in mind  that the replacement door Aviva  had arranged  wasnt  of a satisfactory  standard,  
its understandable that Mr S wouldnt want to wait for a decision on his complaint before making 
his property secure. And Mr S has explained why he chose a door that was of lower quality to his 
original door.  Under the terms of policy, Mr S was entitled to a replacement door on a like for like 
basis or the cash equivalent. So, if Aviva  only reimburses Mr S the amount he paid to replace his 
door with one of inferior quality,  it wouldnt  be settling his claim in line with the terms of the policy.
To put things right, I intend to direct Aviva  to pay Mr S the £3,731.34 cash  settlement it had 
previously offered him. This is in addition to the £250 payment  it has already made for 
distress and inconvenience.
Ive considered what Mr S has said about  his broken burglar alarm and his out of pocket 
expenses. But I dont intend  to award  Mr S any additional  redress  for this. As Ive said, I dont  
know how Aviva  arrived  at the amount it previously offered as a cash settlement. But it is 
over £1,500 more  than Mr S has paid for his replacement door. So, looking at everything 
together, I think the £3,731.34 is a fair settlement, taking into account Mr Ss replacement 
door not being of equivalent quality to the original,  the cost of him now replacing his burglar  
alarm and him having incurred some  incidental expenses .
Ref: DRN24677163Both parties  have said they accept the findings  Id made in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  said they accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Aviva  Insurance  Limited 
to pay him £3,731.34. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr S has accepted  my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020. 
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2467716