K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  him the PPI. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Halifax in the rest of my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr L says he didnt  know  PPI existed on his credit card account. Both Mr L and Halifax  
agree that the PPI was sold on the phone. Halifax doesnt have the recording of the call. 
This isnt surprising or unusual  given how long ago this took place. 
So Ive looked  at what we know about Halifax  and these  types  of sales. And having done 
that, I think its most likely  Halifax made  it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI 
and he chose to take it out. 
Its also worth noting that Halifax  have  given me a copy of Mr Ls signed credit card 
application. Though its largely unreadable, I can see a printed  cross next to the PPI on 
it. This would likely have  been  sent after the sale took place on the phone,  and suggests  
that PPI was discussed and opted for before Mr L signed for it. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he most likely chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what hes said about  family and 
friends helping  out if he needed. But help from other  cant be guaranteed   there 
circumstances may change over time. So these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr L paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Mr L back some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr L now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN26562612my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26562613
Ref: DRN2656261