K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that AllClear Insurance  Services Ltd quoted  them an 
excessive premium for their travel insurance  when  Mrs B was diagnosed  with a further 
medical condition.
background
Mr and Mrs B had an annual travel policy, which they bought through  AllClear and which  
was renewed in June 2018. In January 2019, Mrs B phoned AllClear  to explain she had 
recently been diagnosed  with gallstones and needed her gall bladder  removed once  she 
returned from a pre-booked  holiday.
AllClears adviser went through the underwriting questions from the insurer and quoted Mrs 
B the addition premium  of £632.28. Mr and Mrs B thought this was excessive and didnt want 
to pay this. So they then cancelled their holiday by moving it to the end of the year instead.
They then complained to AllClear also claiming the cancellation of their holiday and moving it 
back caused some additional costs.
AllClear apologised for the confusion caused given its advisor didnt fully explain the 
additional premium  would  be pro-rata  over the policy year.  This would have reduced  the 
additional premium  payable to £266.42.
Mrs B was also confused  about the questions, as really she hadnt suffered  any symptoms of 
her gallstones, they were  picked up via a blood test and scan. So she had her GP certify her 
as unfit to travel, whereas her consultant was happy  to do the operation after her holiday. 
 AllClear provided compensation for the lack of clarity of its adviser in the pro-ratad amount 
of the premium, by way of shopping  vouchers worth  £30.
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy and brought their complaint to us. The adjudicator thought  
AllClears compensation wasnt adequate and asked it to pay a further £50 compensation, 
which it did.
However, Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied  so their complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint on the same  lines as the adjudicator did. Ill now explain why.
AllClear didnt set the extra premium it told Mrs B she would have pay because she 
developed gall stones which required surgery. This is because AllClear merely administers 
this policy  on behalf of the insurer. Therefore, in this decision I cant comment on the extent 
of the premium increase, or why it was chargeable in these circumstances. I can only look at 
what AllClear did wrong and whether  its now done enough to put things right.
Its clear from the call recording  of 18 January 2019,  on the basis  of the questions  AllClears 
adviser asked and Mrs Bs answers that an extra  premium needed to be paid of £632.28. 
Ref: DRN25722572This was because this was a mid-change adjustment given the changes in Mrs Bs health. 
Its also clear  Mrs B said at this stage she hadnt  many symptoms and the gall stones had 
been noticed a scan.  And its clear  that the adviser did initially say the extra premium 
amount could be pro-ratad down, since Mrs B was at least halfway through  the policy year.  
Mrs B queried why any additional  premium was payable midway through  the policy year and 
the adviser explained why.  Then  the adviser went through the questions  again, this time Mrs 
B said she could answer no to the question about symptoms and both she and adviser  
agreed she had better make sure by asking  her doctor about  it. The adviser said if the 
answer to the question  about symptoms was no the extra premium would only be £177.00 
and that could be pro-ratad down. The call clearly ended with Mrs B saying she would speak 
to her doctor and come back to him.
But Mrs B didnt do that. Instead,  she and Mr B decided to transfer  their holiday to later in the 
year. And on the Monday 21 January, she phoned  AllClear again saying she had spoken to 
her doctor and had been turned down flat so she wouldnt  be going on holiday. She advised 
she was now at high risk to travel  as confirmed by her doctor and advised not to travel. 
So in my view its clear  to me to that Mrs B was told both amounts  of the premium increase 
(depending on her answer to the question  about  symptoms) could be pro-ratad down given 
how far through the policy year Mrs B was. I do agree  with AllClear  that its adviser could 
have made  it clearer, but I consider the call recording was clear  enough  on the issue. 
Further, Mrs B left it that she would discuss this with her doctor and come back. She didnt 
do that but decided instead  to have her GP certify her as unfit so she could claim the costs  
of the cancellation or rather the costs  of changing the holiday date.
AllClear was not involved in that decision with Mrs B, so it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
hold it responsible for the consequences. In her email to one of her doctors she says in view 
of the extent of extra  premium  she was asked to pay, she believed it was only option to 
cancel the holiday. But in call of 19 January she was given two options depending  on which 
was the correct answer to the question  about symptoms and she was told the cost of both 
could be pro-ratad down. Whilst I can sympathise that it was a shock  that she would have to 
pay any extra premium, in the circumstances of the contents of the call recordings and her 
emails to her doctors, I consider that its not fair and reasonable to hold AllClear  totally 
responsible for the consequences.
Mr and Mrs B said, as it was nearing the time they would have to pay the balance of the 
holiday so they needed to make  a quick decision. But bearing  in mind the contents of the call 
recording of 19 January, I think it would have been  more prudent for Mr and Mrs B to go 
back to AllClear as agreed in the call of 19 January, before making the ultimate  decision.  Mr 
and Mrs B didnt do this and I cant consequently hold AllClear  responsible for that decision 
made by Mr and Mrs B.
Therefore, I concur that in view of the relatively minor lack of clarity, further compensation 
needed to be paid as shopping  vouchers  isnt an adequate means of compensation. And I 
consider the sum of £50 to be fair and in line with what I have awarded in similar complaints. 
As AllClear have already  paid this to Mr and Mrs B, I dont require it to anything more.
Ref: DRN25722573my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. But as AllClear  
Insurance Services Ltd has already  paid the required compensation I dont require it do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2572257