K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the performance of the investment held in his personal pension with 
Standard Life Assurance Limited. He says the returns on his investment have been very low, 
and are much less than was projected  when he first took the pension  out. 
background
Mr P opened  his pension with Standard Life in 1997.  He contributed around  £34,000 to it in 
that year, and contributed  a further amount of around £10,000  in 1998. He was invested 
equally between Standard Lifes managed and with-profits  funds until 2008, when the whole 
pension was switched  into the Sterling Fund (now called the Money  Market  Pension Fund). 
In December 2017 Mr P wrote to Standard Life to express concern about  the return  his 
investments had achieved. At that time, his pension  was worth about £75,000. He said this 
was a very low return, given the time involved. 
In reply, Standard  Life said,  to July 2008,  the return on Mr Ps investments had been at an 
average of around  4.3% per year. It explained the growth had been  relatively  modest, as 
there had been  a lot of market ups and downs over the period of investment. Standard Life 
further explained that the return had been  much lower - around 0.7% per year on average -
after July 2008,  because the pension  had at that time been switched into the Money Market 
Fund, and interest  rates had been 0.5% over most of the period Mr Ps pension  had been  
invested in that fund.  Standard Life said that fund was not meant  to be a long term 
investment vehicle, and was not designed to match the returns  paid by retail  deposit 
accounts. It said it was unable to offer Mr P any compensation,  but he was able to invest in 
any of a range of over 300 funds if he wanted  to. 
Mr P was not happy with this response, and so referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into the complaint, and concluded  it should  not be upheld. She said, in summary:
The Money Market  Fund  was the most stable investment offered by Standard Life, 
and did not offer high returns.  It was not meant for longer  term investment. 
The fund has suffered a drop in 2009,  but Standard Life had paid money onto the 
fund to correct this drop,  because  it had given assurances the fund was safe. 
It was Mr Ps choice where to invest  Standard Life could not change the investment 
fund for Mr P. 
Mr P had been sent annual statements, which showed him how his pension was 
performing.   
The prediction of returns  Standard  Life had offered was based on Mr P remaining 
invested in the managed and with-profits funds. These funds offered a much  higher 
return than the Money  Market  Fund.  
Mr P did not accept this view. He said Standard Life should be held responsible for a loss to 
his pension caused by the low return hed received,  and that it should  have advised him to 
switch away from the Money  Market  fund. He also said he had not received everything 
Standard Life sent him, and it had not replied to requests for information. Mr P later 
submitted a copy of a final notice issued by The Financial Services  Authority to Standard  Life 
in relation to the Money Market fund, in 2010, and an article detailing problems with the fund 
in 2009. 
Ref: DRN28931572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I should say that I have read the decision made by another ombudsman in 
relation to another complaint made by Mr P about this pension.  Like the investigator, I think 
that consideration of this current complaint should  be restricted  to the return Mr P has 
received on his pension, because the other ombudsman  has considered the other concerns 
raised by Mr P under the other complaint. And were not able to consider things  again,  once 
a final decision has been issued. 
Turning to the point under consideration here, like the investigator, I do not think there  is 
sufficient evidence to say Standard Life has done anything wrong. 
The available evidence does not suggest  Mr Ps pension  was mismanaged. Rather that it 
achieved returns commensurate with the objectives  of the fund he was invested  in, and the 
prevailing market conditions. 
Mr Ps complaint is focussed on the return received from his pension  after 2008   specifically 
the low level of that return and the difference between  it and what  Standard Life had earlier  
projected. I can understand Mr Ps disappointment with the returns  he has received.  But he 
was invested in the Money Market Fund over this period, which was invested largely in short  
term cash instruments, with the primary objective  of providing liquidity and protection  from 
significant market  movements. The fund was intended as a short  term park  for money,  
rather than longer term investments. Its nature meant the returns it offered were low. In my 
view the low returns Mr P has seen are because of this, rather than Standard  Life doing 
anything wrong. 
I also think it likely Mr P was aware, or ought  to have been aware, that the growth that had 
been predicted initially, when he was invested in the managed and with-profits  funds, was 
not likely  to be achieved,  and the Money  Market Fund was only paying  him a low return. Im 
satisfied that Standard  Life sent Mr P statements for his pension. It has provided copies of 
these statements, and they are correctly addressed. I think it unlikely that Standard Life 
would have produced these statements and not have sent them.  And, given the volume of 
correspondence between  Mr P and Standard Life over the period, I think  it unlikely these 
statements were not received  by him. 
In my view the statements made  it clear  that little growth was being  achieved by the fund 
Mr Ps pension  was invested in. So I think Mr P had sufficient information to take action, if he 
was not satisfied with the returns being achieved. And, as Standard Life was not Mr Ps 
financial advisor, it could  not tell him what to do. The onus was on Mr P to seek  advice  if he 
wanted to  and I note he did have  a financial advisor recorded on his pension. 
Ive considered the article Mr P has sent us about  the 2009  fall in the value of the Money 
Market Fund. But that is about an unexpected  5% fall in the value of the fund, and the action  
taken by Standard Life to correct it. Mr P benefitted  from this corrective  action,  as his holding  
in the fund was increased in value to correct the fall in price. So the low return  he has 
experienced is not a result of this problem. 
I have also considered the FSA final notice issued  in 2010. But, again,  I dont think the 
problem this relates to is what has led to Mr Ps pension achieving  a low return. The notice is 
Ref: DRN28931573about the (corrected) 5% fall in value the above  article mentions, and about the way the 
underlying assets  and risk of the fund were described in marketing material.
Overall, whilst I can understand Mr Ps disappointment with the return his pension has 
achieved, I have not seen sufficient evidence  to show this low return  is a result  of a mistake 
by Standard Life. Rather, I think it is the result of Mr Ps pension  being invested for a long 
period of time in a fund which only offered a low return. So I am not going to ask Standard 
Life to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2893157