K820x#14complaint
Miss S says PDL Finance  Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, (PDL), irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one short term loan for £150  which PDL provided to Miss S on
11 September 2013. The loan was payable by one repayment of £202.50 22 days after it 
was taken out. Miss S hasnt repaid the loan.
PDL initially  offered to reduce the outstanding  loan balance  to £87.53. And before Miss S 
sent her complaint to this service,  it offered  to recall the loan from a debt recovery company 
and reduce the outstanding balance to £70.53.  It said this would mean that if Miss S paid 
this amount, she would  only have repaid it £133  with no interest needing to be repaid.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  But he repeated the 
offer PDL had made to Miss S before shed sent her complaint to this service.   
Miss S disagreed and responded by asking  for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Miss S borrowed her loan from PDL the regulator was the Office  of Fair Trading and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG).  
PDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably  have done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN22966642There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the ILG defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
PDL did a number of checks before it lent to Miss S. It asked her for details of her income 
and expenditure.  PDL said that Miss Ss declared  monthly income was £822  and that her 
declared disposable income was £472.  
PDL also checked Miss Ss credit file before agreeing to the loan.  PDL has provided  us with 
a very brief summary of its credit checks which showed a credit  score and that she wasnt 
bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement. PDL said that Miss S had an average 
credit score.
I can see that we have received a copy of Miss Ss credit report.  This showed that Miss S 
had two outstanding short term loans with another lender at the time of her application for 
Loan 1. Im aware  that when  a lender carries  out a credit check, the information  it sees 
doesnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit report will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, Miss Ss other  short term 
loans may not have  been identified by PDLs  credit check. So, this may explain any 
differences between  the information provided by PDLs credit check and Miss Ss actual  
situation.
I can see that the loan repayment amount of £202.50 that Miss S needed  to make was 
relatively modest compared  to the income  that she declared to PDL. I dont think the 
repayment amount  was so large that its obvious it wouldve caused Miss S financial 
difficulty.
So given Miss Ss repayment  amount  for Loan 1, what was apparent about her 
circumstances at the time, and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for PDL to ask her for the amount of information  that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And at this stage I dont  think  there  was anything  in the information  Miss S provided or the 
information PDL shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I dont think PDL was wrong to give Loan  1 to 
Ref: DRN22966643Miss S.
I note that Miss S has referred to a loan application she made  to PDL around seven months 
before Loan 1 which it declined. It referred  to her having a number of outstanding loans at 
that time.  I think it was reasonable for PDL to have seen the seven months gap as an 
indication that Miss Ss finances had moved on from whatever situation had required her 
previous application.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss S and I dont  doubt that she was struggling financially at the 
relevant time but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that LS acted unfairly  in lending 
to her. I leave it to Miss S to decide whether she wishes to accept PDLs offer to recall  the 
loan balance  from the debt recovery company and to reduce the balance to £70.53. I think  
this appears to be a reasonable offer. 
Id also remind PDL to deal with Miss S positively and sympathetically in working  with her to 
come to a suitable repayment plan for the balance outstanding. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2296664