K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs D. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Mrs D the policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs D and her representatives have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. I 
can see that there is a special  section on the credit application form for PPI, and 
Mrs D has ticked  and signed there, to say she wanted it. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ds 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But I dont think,  in her circumstances, full information  
about costs and benefits would  have affected whether she took the PPI. And it 
doesnt look like shed  have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs D about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN20525332my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs D any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2052533