K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  the administration of her mortgage account  by Mars Capital 
Finance Limited.
background
Mrs L has a mortgage  originally taken out with another lender  and transferred  to Mars on 
1 March 2015. The secured property is a flat which  appears to have been  rented out for 
some years and is presently occupied by tenants  on a two-year tenancy which began in 
April 2018. Rent is paid by the Department of Work and Pensions direct  to Mrs L.
In March 2018 the direct debit for the mortgage payment was twice returned unpaid.  In order  
to avoid charges  for multiple unpaid direct debits, the instruction was cancelled. Mars 
required an original signed  direct debit mandate in order to reinstate the instruction.  Although  
Mrs L sent a faxed copy, this wasnt acceptable.  Mars  records  show its attempts to contact 
Mrs L about this.
Mars records also show that on 20 March  2018 there was a request for a landlord licence, 
which Mars noted should be rejected, as this is a residential mortgage.
A payment was made in May 2018, and by November 2018  only four payments had been 
made in the previous year. The account  is now substantially in arrears.
After a field agent visited the property  and found tenants there, Mars considered  appointing  
Law of Property Act Receivers. Thats because the tenants had confirmed the DWP was 
paying the rent to Mrs L, but this wasnt being paid.  I understand that action has been put on 
hold pending  the conclusion of this complaint.
Mrs L complained about the way Mars has dealt with her account. Shes unhappy that the 
direct debit mandate was cancelled. Mrs L has explained that shes uncomfortable making 
payments over the phone.  Shes also unhappy that the Receivers actions have caused her 
problems with receiving  the rent from the DWP.
An investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Mars had acted unreasonably. 
Mrs L disagreed. I summarise below the points shes made:
when there were insufficient funds in her account, she was notified by other  creditors  
of when they were  about to re-present their direct  debits, so Mrs L could make sure 
there were funds in her account to cover the payment.  But Mars didnt do this.
Mrs L had no choice  but to accept that she had to complete another direct  debit form. 
Although she faxed the form and sent the hard copy in April 2018, Mars didnt tell her 
they hadnt received the hard copy in the post. Instead Mars told her it couldnt 
accept the faxed copy.
Payment for May 2018 was made by bank transfer. Mars said that the April 2018 
payment wouldnt  be overdue until May 2018. Mrs L was hoping  that, even if the 
direct debit  hadnt been set up by the end of April 2018, that it would be set up in May 
2018 and the account would then start to run properly again.
Mrs L didnt want Mars trying  to contact her by phone or text message. She doesnt  
think there is anything wrong  with wanting contact only by post.
Ref: DRN20660402Although Mars was sending out direct debit mandates for her to complete, she didnt 
return these because  Mars had never  told her in April 2018 that it hadnt received the 
hard copy.
In October 2018 Mrs L contacted us and although wed asked Mars to put matters  on 
hold, it didnt do so. It appointed  Receivers  and contacted the tenants.
Mars is responsible for the tenants rent arrears  by sending a field agent  to the 
property.
All this began when  Mrs L was away  at Easter 2018. As soon as she became aware 
of what happened, she completed and returned  the new direct debit mandate. 
Mars has acted deliberately with the intention of causing Mrs L stress and to damage 
her credit  rating.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. My reasons are set out below.
I appreciate Mrs L says she returned  the direct debit  mandate in April 2018. The faxed copy 
wasnt acceptable and Mars didnt receive a hard copy  in the post. Nevertheless, Im 
satisfied that when Mars sent out further  direct debit mandates  in September  and November 
2018 and  Mrs L ought to have realised that there  wasnt  a valid direct  debit in place.
Furthermore, Im satisfied that Mrs L, as a landlord, should have known from her bank 
statements that the mortgage on this property wasnt being paid. I think  Mrs L would, or 
should, have been aware after May 2018 that she had about  £650 per month more in her 
bank account  than she ought to have had, because the mortgage payment wasnt  going out 
of the account  each  month.
I can see from the account notes that Mars tried to contact Mrs L to discuss  the direct debit 
and arrears on the account  from March 2018  onwards.  After  Mrs L requested  no further 
phone contact on 30 April 2018,  Mars had no option  but to write  to her.
In the absence of any response, Mars instructed a field agent to visit the property in 
September 2018. Im satisfied this was a reasonable course of action  for Mars to adopt. 
Mars was entitled  to ascertain whether the property was occupied,  by whom, obtain  
information about their circumstances and report on the condition  of the property. 
Having noted  the property  was being  rented out without its consent, Im also satisfied Mars 
was entitled to decide to appoint Receivers. Thats because the tenants  had confirmed  that 
the rent was being paid by the DWP direct to Mrs L, but the mortgage hadnt been  paid since  
May 2018.
I note that the field agent spoke to Mrs L in September 2018 when she confirmed she had 
the money to bring the account up to date and would then set up a new direct debit going 
forward. Mrs L also acknowledged  that she knew the mortgage hadnt been  paid since  
Ref: DRN206604031 May 2018.  Although direct  debit mandates were sent to Mrs L in September 2018,  and 
again in November 2018, she has yet to complete and return  a new direct debit mandate.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied, for the reasons given  above, that Mars isnt responsible 
for the mortgage  arrears, or for any problems arising for Mrs L with rent arrears, or for there  
being no direct debit in place to pay the mortgage from April 2018.
Despite what Mrs L told the field agent  in September 2018,  she has still not brought the 
account up to date or set up a new direct debit.  Im assuming Mrs L has set aside the money  
to clear the mortgage  arrears, and Id urge her to do so in order  to avoid Mars taking action  
to recover possession of the property.
Im satisfied Mars has acted fairly  and reasonably  in the way its administered  Mrs Ls 
mortgage account. Its Mrs Ls responsibility to pay the mortgage  and, as Ive explained 
above, Im satisfied she was aware  it wasnt being  paid. In the circumstances, the 
consequences of Mrs L failing to pay the mortgage  each month are entirely of her doing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2066040