K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1995. Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs B took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs B says that she wasnt aware  that PPI had been added to her account, and she didnt 
know she had it  she also says that she didnt fill in her store  card application, and only 
signed it. FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Bs store  card application  and I can see that the 
policy is presented  as optional, and has been  selected with a tick. Mrs B has then signed the 
application. While I dont  doubt what Mrs B is saying  and its possible the application was 
completed by someone else,  it doesnt  follow that the PPI wasnt  clearly  made optional  by 
FICL. And as Mrs B was entering  in to a financial  agreement,  it was her responsibility to 
check over what  she was agreeing to by signing.  
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said, including what  shes  said about  not making a 
claim on the policy when  she was involved in an accident. She says that if shes been aware 
of the PPI she wouldve made a claim.  
I dont know why Mrs B didnt make a claim on her policy  but as Ive explained above, at 
the time it was taken  out, I think that FICL  had made  it clear that the policy  was optional and 
gave Mrs B a choice in taking it out. So this point doesnt change my decision,  and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN23486632my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2348663