K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a store card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold  this complaint. Mrs O
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs O says the PPI was added to her account without her knowledge and consent. Ive 
thought about this but Ive also seen a copy of the store card application  form Mrs O saw 
and signed which  included a section for PPI. In this section Mrs O has signed to agree to 
the cover. This signature is separate and additional to her signature to agree to the 
credit. And there is nothing on the form to indicate that she had to sign in the PPI section 
 so I think Mrs O wouldve known she couldve left this section blank if she didnt want  
the cover.
So based  on what Ive seen I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs O didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this.
Mrs O says the PPI was recommended to her, but FICL says it didnt provide any advice 
or recommendation. Based  on what  weve seen  of these types of sales in the past,  these 
were usually  sold on a non-advised  basis. And Ive not seen any persuasive  evidence 
that anything different  happened in this sale,  so I think its likely this was an non-advised 
sale. This means FICL didnt have to check if the policy  was right for her but it did have 
to make sure Mrs O got the information  she needed  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs O says the PPI was of no use to her because she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer at the time. However, for no more than £1.00 per £100  of the outstanding 
balance the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Os outstanding monthly balance 
until she returned to work or the outstanding balance had been paid off. And the PPI 
Ref: DRN22567902wouldve paid out in addition to and for longer than Mrs Os sick pay wouldve lasted. 
Overall I still think  the PPI wouldve been  useful for Mrs O.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2256790