K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester  (C&G) in 2009. The mortgage  was a 
joint one issued in the names of Mr F1 and Mr F2. But only Mr F1 was covered by the MPPI.  
He says this cover was mis-sold to him because he didnt even know he had it.
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  But Mr F1 and Mr F2 
disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
Mr F1 and Mr F2s main  point of complaint is that the MPPI cover was never  discussed or 
even agreed to. They also say Mr F1 (the policyholder) had a good job with strong benefits, 
so MPPI wasnt something  he needed.
I dont doubt that Mr F1 and Mr F2 now genuinely  and honestly feel the MPPI was mis-sold. 
And I accept  its possible they may not remember exactly  what happened 10 years ago at a 
meeting about  their mortgage. But Im afraid theres  quite  a bit of evidence which says there 
was a discussion about this type of cover and that the policy was agreed to at the time.
I say this because  it looks  like a demands  and needs document  was completed.  In my 
experience, this type of form is used when discussing the financial circumstances of 
consumers and assessing the types  of products an adviser might  recommend to them.
I also see that a specific  MPPI application  was filled out which asked for cover in respect  of 
Mr F1 only.  In my view,  its clear  enough what this application is for and Mr F1 signed it.
Next, I looked at the mortgage offer Mr F1 and Mr F2 were given. This is an important 
document so I do feel that they would  have wanted  to read it quite carefully. I note there is a 
section on this about insurances  and under a heading which says Optional Insurance  I can 
see the MPPI is set out. Theres a brief description of what  the cover is for and how much  it 
costs. Mr F1 and Mr F2 both signed and dated this document too.
Its not disputed  that the MPPI  was recommended  as part of an advised sale. This means 
C&G had a duty to ensure the policy was suitable.  I think it was.
I think this because Mr F1 was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I agree he had a good and skilled job. But 
this doesnt make the MPPI unsuitable  for him. The mortgage was secured against  their 
home and so the consequences of not being  able to make the repayments couldve been 
Ref: DRN29038972serious. In the event  of a successful claim, the MPPI  wouldve paid the mortgage for up to 12 
months. This would have  been in addition  to the other means  they already had in place.
I therefore dont  think recommending  MPPI was unreasonable  in this case and I think the 
cover was suitable for Mr F1.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what wouldve been said at the meeting(s)  and its possible C&G  could have  done  a 
better job in explaining things. But from what Ive seen,  I think  the disclosure of information 
looks relatively comprehensive. It would also have been easy  to see the cost of the monthly 
MPPI premiums. 
I also think its likely theyd have been given documents explaining  the terms and I was sent 
copies of these.  So I think Mr F1 and Mr F2 had enough information  on which to make an 
informed choice about what they wanted  to do.
Im very sorry to disappoint them but I dont think the MPPI policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr F1 and Mr F2 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2903897