K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr and Mrs E say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. The PPI covered Mr and 
Mrs E for unemployment. 
In my provisional decision of 29 March  2019 I explained why I wasnt minded to uphold  this 
complaint. In response to that provisional decision Santander had no further comments to 
make, but Mr and Mrs E set out several  reasons why they disagreed  with my findings.  
my findings
Ive once again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
The evidence Ive seen  suggests that the PPI was sold during a telephone call. 
Unfortunately a copy of the call recording  isnt available and very little paperwork has been 
provided to show me how the PPI was presented following the call. But I dont  think  thats 
surprising given how long ago this policy was sold.
Mr and Mrs E have  said they were not aware they were taking out PPI, didnt know  it was 
optional, and that nothing about  the policy was explained to them. They also say that the 
suitability of the policy for their particular circumstances was not discussed. As Ive said, 
theres very little information from the time of the sale, but what  I can see is that rather  than 
taking accident,  sickness and unemployment  cover   which is what  a PPI policy  would 
usually cover  Mr and Mrs E only took unemployment cover. I can also see that they 
selected to split the cover between them 80/20.  
So it appears that Mr and Mrs E did select a particular level of cover. This suggests to me 
that they wanted the cover and chose to take it out having spoken with Santander about 
what their needs were.  Ive also seen  a welcome  letter that was sent to Mr and Mrs E on 5 
February 1999 which explained  the cost of the PPI they had taken and confirmed they could 
cancel the policy if they no longer wanted it  had they not agreed  to take the PPI, I wouldve 
expected them to have questioned why theyd received this or cancel it if they didnt want  it.
Of course I cant  know exactly what was discussed  at the time,  but where I have limited 
information I need to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence  and 
information I do have.  And, on balance, I think  that its more  likely than not that Santander 
made it clear  that Mr and Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out 
 although I can understand  why they may not remember this.
Santander has said it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E so it had to check  that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  
that it was. For example  they werent  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover.
Ref: DRN28244662And while I note that Mr and Mrs E have both said they had excellent sick pay, they chose 
not to take accident and sickness cover, which suggests their sick pay was taken into 
account in deciding what level of cover was right for them. Mr and Mrs E have  also said they 
had a large amount of savings at the time, although  weve not been told how much exactly 
this might have been. But, in any case, the PPI policy would have  meant that if either of 
them did become unemployed then their savings  would have been available  for other 
essential expenditure. And given that the mortgage  was a significant  financial commitment 
secured against  their home, I still think the PPI could have provided them with a useful 
benefit.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Mr and Mrs E also say theyre unhappy  with how Santander has handled their complaint. Ive 
thought about this, and while  I accept the complaint process may have been frustrating at 
times, I think that Santander did respond to Mr and Mrs E within  the timescales we would 
expect. And while  those responses may not have been from the CEO of Santander  as Mr E 
had requested, I dont  think its unreasonable for complaint handling  to be delegated to a 
specialist team, as appears to have happened  here.  
I can see that Santander did fail to log a complaint  in early December when Mr E spoke with 
them about  his concerns  with the service  he was receiving, but Santander has apologised 
for that, and I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. I also appreciate  that Mr and Mrs E 
may not have received the answer  they wanted  from Santander, but I dont think  that means 
that Santander didnt handle the complaint appropriately. 
Mr and Mrs E responded to my provisional  decision  to raise a number of points that still 
concerned them. Specifically,  they feel that given the lack of evidence from the time of the 
sale, it is unfair to presume that the PPI was sold correctly   particularly in light of the well-
publicised issues around the sale of PPI. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Es strength of feeling  about this matter, but I must also bear in 
mind that this PPI policy was sold twenty years ago. I wouldnt expect a business  to keep 
paperwork or call recordings for that length  of time, so I dont think  its unreasonable that 
there isnt much evidence  from the time of the sale. I should  also explain that we look at 
every case  on its individual merits, and not all PPI policies were mis-sold. Sometimes PPI 
did provide a useful  benefit and was sold in an appropriate way. I think  that is the case here.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  the limited evidence I do have suggest that the PPI 
policy was tailored to Mr and Mrs Es needs, and that they were  sent a letter  confirming the 
cover they had taken  and that they could cancel it if they no longer wanted  it. I understand 
that Mr and Mrs E say they dont agree they made any selections relating to PPI, and 
dispute that the letter was sent to them. But if Mr and Mrs E hadnt discussed  the PPI with 
Santander at all then its not clear  why they would only have taken out unemployment cover, 
rather than the whole  PPI package including  sickness  and accident cover.  And given that the 
letter explaining  their PPI cover was posted to their correct address at the time, I have no 
reason to doubt that it was sent to them. 
Ref: DRN28244663I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs E are giving me their honest recollections of what they think 
happened, but this all took place 20 years ago. And I think the evidence Ive seen from the 
time of the sale suggests it is more likely that a discussion  about PPI did take place  and that 
Mr and Mrs E chose  to take the PPI.
Turning to Mr and Mrs Es comments about  the level of service they received from 
Santander in its handling of their complaint, what theyve said hasnt changed  my view that 
Santander acted  appropriately in handling  their concerns. 
I know this will be very disappointing to Mr and Mrs E, but my decision remains  unchanged; I 
dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2824466