K821x#15complaint
Ms K complains  about poor customer service  by British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) in 
respect of repairs it carried out to her fridge under  her home  emergency  insurance policy.
background
Ms K has had a home emergency  policy  with BGI since 2001  which  covered a number  of 
events including  breakdown of kitchen  appliances. In 2003  she bought a fridge. In December 
2017 her fridge stopped working  and she called on BGI under her home emergency policy.
BGIs engineer initially thought the starter relay on the compressor  was faulty.  But when he 
replaced this, the fridge still didnt work. The engineer decided  that the fridge was beyond  
economic repair. The only diagnosis/reasoning he wrote  on the job sheet was:
"Compressor has been replaced  previously.  It has been connected  up wrong."
Ms Ks policy provided that BGI would repair an appliance, or it would  provide  a contribution 
towards a replacement appliance  if it couldnt  repair it, or it decided  it would cost less to 
replace than repair. If the appliance was three or more years old its contribution would be 
30%.
BGI offered Ms K a contribution of 30% towards the cost of a replacement fridge. She didnt  
accept this. She said only BGI engineers  had worked on the fridge  since she bought it. The 
latest engineer  was saying on his job sheet that it was broken now because of previous 
faulty workmanship. So she thought BGI should pay the full cost of replacing the fridge.
BGI didnt  agree.  It said there  was nothing in its records confirming incorrect  wiring.  It 
confirmed it would pay a 30% contribution towards  a new appliance,  and offered a goodwill 
payment of £30. Ms K didnt accept this and complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. From documentation  in 
Ms Ks possession it seemed the compressor had been replaced in 2011. The investigator  
thought it more likely than not that BGI had arranged this repair. She said this because:
Ms K had held a home emergency policy with BGI since  2001, and it wouldn't  make  
sense to pay a third party to repair the fridge  when she was already paying BGI for 
this service; and
BGIs  work schedule  for the time of the repair seemed to have entries relating to the 
fridge, and mentioned  an engineers name which also appeared on a parts  invoice for 
the replacement  compressor which Ms K held.
The issue  then was whether the fridge  was now irreparable because of a faulty repair  in 
2011. The only evidence  on this was the comment  written  on the job sheet by BGIs 
engineer.
Ms K had asked another engineer to examine  the fridge and say what was wrong with it. He 
reported that part of the fridge connected to the starter  relay on the compressor was missing.  
Without this he couldnt  say what was wrong with it, or whether it could be repaired. 
Ref: DRN27595752The investigator said that while it might be unusual for it to take almost seven years  for a 
faulty repair to stop a fridge from working, it wasnt impossible.  On the basis  of the BGI 
engineers comment,  she concluded that the current fault was the result  of the 2011 repair.
The investigator recommended  that in the circumstances it was fair and reasonable that BGI:
make  a 100% contribution for a like-for-like replacement of Ms Ks fridge subject to 
the policy terms for such a replacement;  and
pay Ms K £200 as compensation for the trouble and upset BGIs service failures had 
caused her. In saying this, the investigator  noted  that Ms K had then been without a 
working fridge for six months.
Ms K accepted the investigators recommendation. However BGI responded to say, in 
summary, that:
looking again at its records, it thought  the 2011 repair  had been carried out by the 
manufacturer of the fridge;
although its records showed there  had been   further repairs to the fridge  since 2011, 
none of these related to the fault reported  in 2011; 
it didnt think it was possible for the fridge  to work properly for over seven years, and 
then develop a fault linked  to the repairs carried out seven years before; and
it had offered a 30% contribution for a replacement  fridge,  plus £30 goodwill gesture, 
in January 2018. So it didnt agree that the delay in Ms K replacing her fridge  was its 
fault, or that it should pay her £200 compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  the investigator mentioned, I think its most likely that when her fridge broke 
down in 2011, Ms K contacted BGI and claimed on her BGI policy. Whether the repair  was 
dealt with at the time by the manufacturer or another  repairer,  I conclude  they were acting for 
BGI as its agent under the policy. So BGI is responsible  for any faulty repair  that was carried 
out at the time.
BGI doesnt  think its possible that the fridge could break down in 2017 because  of a faulty 
repair in 2011,  having performed properly for some seven years in the meantime. However I 
remind BGI that its the evidence of BGIs own engineer that it suggesting this is what 
happened. 
Ms K complained to BGI immediately its engineer condemned the fridge. But BGI seems to 
have made  no effort  ask its engineer to explain his diagnosis, or to arrange  for another of its 
engineers to inspect  the fridge  and decide  what was wrong with it and whether it was indeed 
beyond economic repair. This would have been  possible  because  Ms K still has the fridge. 
So as a result of its own actions, BGI isnt now in a position to contradict the evidence of its 
own engineer.
Ms K made her own attempt to throw  light on the issue.  But the engineer  she instructed 
couldnt diagnose what was wrong  because a part was missing.  I think its most likely  that it 
was removed by BGIs  engineer when he was working on the fridge.
Ref: DRN27595753I dont think it was unreasonable  for Ms K to delay  replacing the fridge  while she waited for 
this service to consider  her complaint.
On the evidence available to me, I conclude that the fridge is now irreparable because of a 
faulty repair carried by BGI or on its behalf  in 2011. I think  its fair and reasonable that BGI:
make  a 100% contribution for a like-for-like replacement of Ms Ks fridge from its 
approved supplier subject  to the policy terms for such a replacement. In accordance  
with the policy terms Ms K should be given the option of contributing  towards an 
alternative model of her choice from the approved supplier; and
pay Ms K £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  BGIs service 
failures have caused her.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1.make  a 100% contribution for a like-for-like replacement of Ms Ks fridge from its 
approved supplier subject  to the policy terms for such a replacement. In accordance  
with the policy terms Ms K should be given the option of contributing  towards an 
alternative model of her choice from the approved supplier; and
2.pay Ms K £200 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience  BGIs service 
failures have caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2759575