K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  Zenith Insurance Plc provided incorrect  information about the source 
of a leak. They want to it to cover the cost of additional damage they feel this caused.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs M made  a claim on their Zenith  home insurance policy.  Rain 
water had been coming through  their roof. This caused damaged to the building itself and 
some of its contents. 
Zeniths surveyor inspected the property. He considered the claim under the storm part of 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy. But he said storm wasnt the cause of the damage.  So Zenith refused 
to cover any damage to the roof. And it said Mr M didnt  have  optional  accidental damage  
(AD) cover. So it said wouldnt pay for damage  to the inside of the property.
Mr and Mrs M say the surveyor said the leak was coming from around  their chimney. So 
they paid for repairs to that part of the roof. But water continued to get in the property. It 
damaged a different room and some  of its contents. Mr and Mrs Ms contractors found the 
leak was actually from a flat roof on their dormer,  not around the chimney.        
Mr and Mrs M dont  want me to consider Zeniths  refusal of their claim. Instead  they feel its 
responsible for making them pay for unnecessary  repair work to the chimney. And they feel 
by not identifying the actual source of the leak Zenith caused additional and unnecessary 
damage to the inside of their home and some contents. So they want  me to require it to 
cover these costs.
Zenith refused  to pay Mr and Mrs M anything. It says the chimney repair was required as 
maintenance anyway as their policy requires the property  to be kept in good condition.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Zenith pay for the chimney  work or additional  damage.  
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept that. So the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making Zenith  
pay Mr and Mrs M or do anything differently.
The surveyors role was to establish  if Zenith had any liability,  under the terms of policy, to 
cover any loss or damage that had occurred. The surveyor found there wasnt any liability  
under the policy.  Based  on the information available, including the second surveyors report, 
that seems to have  been a reasonable assessment. The surveyors  role wasnt  to diagnose 
the source of leak for Mr and Mrs M. Often a diagnosis of the problem is a useful by-product 
of a surveyors inspection,  but its not its aim. So I cant fairly  find the surveyor, and so 
Zenith, at fault for not diagnosing  the exact location  of the leak. That means  Im not going to 
make it pay for the repairs to the chimney or cover  any losses that happened  after the first 
surveyors visit.
The surveyor did indicate the leak was coming from around the chimney. Zenith says the 
area needed some maintenance work. So Mr and Mrs M would have needed to have spent 
money on that it at some  point anyway. That seems reasonable  to me. That the work was 
Ref: DRN23515212carried out suggests it did need  doing.  But if they now think it didnt then they should  speak 
to the builder who did the unnecessary work.   
The surveyors and so Zenith found  the damage wasnt  covered under the policy  terms. 
Mr and Mrs M dont  seem  to disagree with this. They accept it wasnt  storm damage.  Based 
on what Ive seen I dont  think  it was either. For example, it doesnt seem there were storm 
conditions in Mr and Mrs Ms area around  the time of the damage. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Zenith  Insurance Plc pay Mr and Mrs M or do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2351521