K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that BUPA Insurance  Limited (BUPA) declined to refund his private 
medical insurance premiums after he moved abroad.  
background
Mr G said his father took out a BUPA private  medical insurance policy for him over 25 years 
ago. The policy had renewed each year. And Mr Gs father had been  paying the premiums 
by direct debit. 
In 2018 Mr G contacted  BUPA and told it hed moved abroad. He said he believed  he was 
only eligible for cover under the policy while he lived in the UK. And he asked  for a refund of 
all of the premiums hed paid back to the time when he moved  abroad  in 2005. After  not 
receiving a response, Mr G complained. 
In his complaint  Mr G said he said he didnt recall  receiving  any correspondence about  the 
policy when he was still living in the UK. He said his father had been paying  for the policy by 
direct debit, and that hed also not received any correspondence. He said his father had tried 
to contact BUPA, but it wouldnt speak to him about  the policy.  
In response to Mr Gs complaint, BUPA apologised for the delays in responding to his 
original request for a refund. It said it was unable to refund premiums  because Mr G hadnt 
told BUPA  hed moved. BUPA  said the policy terms required policyholders to notify it if their 
address changed,  or if they left the UK. 
BUPA said it sent policy documents to the address it held for Mr G each year,  and none were  
returned undelivered until 2017. It also said it had no record of any contact from Mr Gs father. 
But confirmed it wouldnt have been  able to speak to him as he wasnt  the policyholder. 
BUPA cancelled the policy  and refunded the premium for that year from the renewal date of 
1 July 2018. But it said it wouldnt refund any further  premiums. 
Unhappy with the response from BUPA,  Mr G brought his complaint to us. 
Mr G said he thought  the policy was invalidated  by him moving abroad. And said he didnt 
think BUPA  could deny  him a refund just because hed not told it about  his change of address. 
Mr G also provided  some  evidence that he took out medical insurance abroad between 2005  
and 2018. He said that as he had this insurance, he wouldnt have attempted to claim on the 
BUPA policy. He said he wanted a refund of the premiums paid from September 2005 to 
July 2018, with interest. 
BUPA provided some additional information. It said Mr Gs policy was taken out as part of 
the HM forces scheme and that the premiums were discounted. 
Mr G said hed never worked for HM forces. And BUPA said despite this, it would have paid 
an eligible claim. 
And so its for me to make a decision.
my provisional decision  
Ref: DRN27931802I issued a provisional decision and in summary I said: 
Mr G was ineligible for the HM forces scheme  policy, as one of the requirements  was that 
the insured person needed  to work for HM forces,  and Mr G said he hadnt.  However,  BUPA 
said it would  have still provided the policy, but Mr G wouldnt have qualified  for the 
discounted rate.
BUPA said despite  him having moved  abroad, it would have met a claim from Mr G for 
eligible treatment. Mr G disagreed with this and said he thought  BUPA would have refused 
any claims. So I asked  BUPA  to explain.  
BUPA said Mr G would  have been  eligible  under the policy  to claim  for treatment he received 
in the UK. And it said as he was covered under the HM Forces  scheme (albeit  incorrectly)  he 
could have used  the overseas benefit available. As such, BUPA said he would have  been  
able to claim for treatment  received while living abroad. And based on this, I was satisfied 
that Mr G could have  made  an eligible claim. 
Mr G provided  evidence  that he took out medical  cover abroad after he moved away  from 
the UK. However,  I said I noted  that health  insurance cover is compulsory in the countries 
where Mr G was living. And the cover he took out may not have been equivalent to the 
BUPA policy. So, as the BUPA cover  was available to Mr G, I said it would have been 
possible for him to rely on it in the event of a claim.  
BUPA said it didnt know Mr G had moved  away. And it explained what  itd done after 
a mailing was returned undelivered  in 2017.  I thought BUPA had made reasonable efforts to 
get in touch with Mr G after it became aware  the address it held was no longer correct. 
BUPA said prior to this, the items  it sent by post hadnt been returned, and the premiums 
were continuing  to be paid. So I didnt think BUPA had acted unreasonably in continuing  the 
policy. 
Mr G said his father attempted  to contact BUPA about the policy.  However I didnt think  it 
was unreasonable for BUPA to refuse to speak to someone who wasnt  the policyholder. 
And, as Mr G said his father  attempted to contact BUPA  only a month before his own 
request to cancel in July 2018,  I didnt  think it made  a difference. 
When Mr G first asked  about a refund of his premiums,  there  was a delay in BUPA informing 
him of its decision. BUPA  accepted it caused  a delay  and apologised.  So, I didnt think it 
needed to do anything more about  this. 
Based on the evidence  Id seen, I was satisfied  Mr G would have been able to make an 
eligible claim  on the BUPA policy after he moved abroad.  And I didnt think BUPA  did 
anything wrong  in continuing  the policy, as Mr G didnt cancel it and the premiums continued 
to be paid. So I said it wouldnt be fair for me to ask BUPA to refund more than it had 
already. 
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr G responded to my provisional decision.  In summary he said: 
he was unaware  of any premium refund following  the cancellation of the policy;  
Ref: DRN27931803he was eligible for the policy up until age 24 due to him being  in full time education 
and his father serving in the forces; 
it would  have been clear to BUPA  that he was no longer  eligible once  he reached 24, 
and he should  have been contacted at that time;
he finds it highly unusual that BUPA said it would have paid a claim considering he 
believes several points  of the terms and conditions show he would have been 
ineligible; 
he wouldnt have made a claim on the BUPA  policy due to having medical cover 
abroad, and said hed made no claims against any of his medical policies; and 
he doesnt see the relevance  of my reference  to health insurance  cover being 
compulsory in the countries where he was living.
BUPA didnt  respond. However,  I asked it to comment on Mr Gs points about  the refund of 
the premium paid in July 2018 and his eligibility for the discounted policy  up to age 24. And 
in summary it said: 
the last premium collected  in July 2018  was refunded in October 2018; 
it no longer had sufficient records to confirm the eligibility criteria of the HM forces 
scheme at the time the policy was taken out. But it said it thought it was likely that 
what Mr G said is correct - he would  have been  eligible  until he was 24;
it had made an error in continuing  Mr Gs policy under the HM forces scheme but 
said he continued to benefit from significant  premium discounts because  of this; and
it had sent information  annually about  the cover  Mr G had, and it hadnt previously 
been notified that anything was incorrect. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of the response to it.
BUPA has shown me that it refunded the last premium paid by direct  debit in July 2018. The 
refund was made in October 2018,  back to the account the payment was originally  taken 
from. If Mr G is still unable to trace receipt  of the refund, he should  contact  BUPA directly to 
resolve this. 
Mr G has said he was no longer eligible for the HM forces  scheme policy after he turned 24. 
And BUPA accepted it made an error  in continuing  with the policy  under the discounted 
scheme. However, Im not persuaded that this means BUPA  should  refund all of the 
premiums paid after that point. Ive seen  no evidence  that Mr G queried the policy  with 
BUPA, or asked it to cancel the policy, either  when  he turned 24 or at any other point  before  
2018. And the premiums continued to be paid. So I dont think BUPA  would have known that 
it had made  a mistake. And Mr G had the benefit  of cover and received a considerable 
premium discount which  he otherwise wouldnt  have  been entitled to. 
Ref: DRN27931804Mr G doubts BUPAs assertion that it would have paid an eligible claim, as he said he didnt 
meet the policy terms. I accepted what BUPA said about what it would have done in the 
event of a claim from Mr G, because its in line with what  we expect an insurer  to do in this 
situation. The relevant rules  and industry guidelines  require  insurers to act fairly and not 
reject claims unreasonably. And in the circumstances of this case, I think  it would have been 
unreasonable for BUPA to have rejected a claim on the basis  of Mr G not meeting the policy 
criteria specific  to the HM forces scheme.  
In my provisional decision I noted  that health  insurance cover was compulsory in the 
countries where  Mr G was living. I said this because Id considered this might be the reason 
Mr G had taken out that additional cover. And this didnt preclude a claim under the BUPA  
policy.
Mr G said he hadnt made  any claims on any of his medical insurance policies. However,  Im 
still of the opinion that Mr G had the benefit of cover under the BUPA policy,  and could have 
made a claim. 
The points Mr G has raised  havent  changed  my mind, so I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision and summarised above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint and I make 
no award against BUPA Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2793180