K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  Zenith  Insurance plcs service following a claim on 
their motor insurance policy.
Mr M is the policyholder and Mrs M a named driver on the policy.  Mrs M has taken the lead 
in bringing this complaint. So where  I refer to her comments and actions below those  should  
be read as being  on behalf of both herself  and Mr M.
Reference to Zenith includes  its agents.
background
The rear glass on Mr Ms truck shattered and he made a claim on his policy for the 
replacement glass. Zenith arranged to replace the glass  under the repairing and replacing  
glass  section of the policy and Mrs M paid the appropriate £100 excess. But the glass 
replacement affected  other parts of the car including,  amongst others  things, the locking 
mechanism and rear brake light. An auto-electrician  looked at the car but said that he 
couldn't fix it because  of the quality of the glass and materials used. 
Mrs M complained. Zenith had sourced the glass form the trucks manufacturer  so it couldn't  
do anything about  the glass quality. And it was apparent that to put things right would require 
substantial more work to the truck. Zenith  said it would arrange  the repairs  but said those 
would go beyond a glass claim. It offered Mrs M two choices. The first was for Zenith  to sort 
out repairs, as a new claim under the general  terms of the policy  with Mrs M paying the 
appropriate excess and effect on no claims discount (NCD). The second  was that it would 
refund Mrs M the £100 excess she paid for the glass claim and remove the record of the 
claim.
Zenith also acknowledged that not all of its service was of a standard it would wish to 
provide so it offered to reimburse Mrs M for the £53.75 shed  paid for a brake light, £36 for 
the fee shed paid to the auto-electrician and, on receipt of evidence of payment, £200  for a 
dog box that Mrs M had to buy because  the repair wasn't complete. It also offered £250  to 
address Mr and Mrs Ms distress and inconvenience  arising  from its handling of the claim.
Mrs M didn't think that went  far enough and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought Zenith's proposals to put things  right were reasonable. Mrs M didn't agree so the 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ms made a number of detailed points and I've considered  
everything shes said. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
Given that the damage to Mr Ms truck initially was limited to glass  I can understand why 
Mrs M thought that Zenith should deal with it under the glass  section of the policy.  I note that 
the glass technicians  initially said, prior to carrying  out the work, that an auto-electrician  
Ref: DRN20008232may be needed to reconnect the remote locking once the glass was installed. But its since 
become clear that, in order to carry out a thorough repair the amount of work required goes 
far beyond  what would generally be involved in a glass repair.  And it now seems that in 
order to complete the repair  the trucks full canopy might require replacement. And I don't 
think that was because of anything Zenith got wrong when attempting  to fit the glass  initially. 
It ordered the glass from the appropriate manufacturers source, and the glass had to be 
imported especially. And the auto-electricians concerns that I've seen  say that the problem 
lies with the quality  of materials. So any concerns about the quality of the materials  aren't 
because of anything  Zenith got wrong.  It follows that I don't think its fair to hold Zenith  at 
fault if the repair can't be completed  as a glass repair  because  the glass  itself is causing  an 
issue. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy says that their NCD won't  be affected by a claim where the only 
damage is to glass. But its apparent that the glass smashing has led to significant other 
damage to some of the cars other  components. And in those  circumstances I don't think  its 
reasonable to expect  Zenith to deal with this claim under the glass  section of the policy.  It 
follows that I think Zeniths offer to deal with the repair under the other  sections of the policy 
- and so attracting the appropriate excess and effect on NCD - is fair.
Also, Zenith has acknowledged that not all of its service was as good as it could have been. 
And its offered  to reimburse Mrs M, on receipt  of appropriate evidence, for the rear brake 
light, auto-electricians fee and dog box. Its also offered £250 compensation to address 
Mr and Mrs Ms distress  and inconvenience  arising from any failures  in its service. And I 
think that's reasonable in the circumstances as that sum is similar to awards we make in 
cases of similar seriousness. So Im not going  to instruct Zenith to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2000823