K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc incorrectly advised him to add his 
daughter S to his personal  account and his business  account. S transferred over £130,000  
from his personal account in August  2018.  Mr G would like NatWest  to refund the money.  He 
is also unhappy that NatWest are charging him a monthly fee for his account ending 3392 
even though he isnt using  it because  its blocked.
Background
Mr G had two NatWest  personal accounts.  A Premier Saver account ending 7671 and a 
Premium Black account ending 3392.  
In December 2013, Mr G asked NatWest to add S, his daughter, as a joint account holder to 
the Premium Black account ending 3392. 
Mr G added S to the Premier Saver account ending 7671 on 14 March 2017  as a joint 
account holder.
In August  2018,  S transferred £130,000 from the Premier Saver account  ending 7671 into 
accounts in her sole name and her daughters sole name. Mr G says he didnt agree to this 
transfer. 
On 12 December 2018 Mr G complained  to the bank and made the bank  aware that there 
was a dispute between him, and S. In his complaint Mr G said that NatWest  gave him 
incorrect advice regarding  how to remove S from his personal accounts and online banking.
Mr G said he was unhappy that S had been added as a joint account holder when he 
intended her to be added as a third-party mandate. He thought  this was the reason why S 
had been able to transfer money from the joint account into her own account.
Once NatWest was aware of a dispute it blocked  Mr Gs Premium Black  account ending 
3392 but continued to charge  him fees on the account. 
The bank said it hadnt done anything wrong  in adding S to the account or allowing her to 
withdraw funds from the Premier Saver account  ending  7671. 
NatWest also said that S would have been  able to transfer funds whether she was a joint 
account holder  or held a third-party mandate.
NatWest agreed they hadnt given Mr G good  customer service, they had given him wrong 
information about the consequences of removing S from the personal account and had 
provided him compensation for this as well as for loss of interest  and late payment fees as a 
result of the account  being blocked. 
Mr G disagreed with the bank and complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint. Our investigator  thought  NatWest  had 
done nothing wrong in allowing S to withdraw funds from the joint saver  account ending 
7671.She also agreed with NatWest that the £31 monthly fee was correctly charged and 
both Mr G and S were receiving the benefits from the Premium  Black account ending  3392. 
Ref: DRN22544832As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Transfer from Premier  Saver Account  ending  7671
I have looked  at the evidence and I can see that Mr G added S to the account on 
14 March 2017.  At that time there  was no dispute between Mr G and S. The documents  
show that Mr G applied  for S to be added as a joint account holder.  The documents  were 
signed by Mr G, so I think that he was aware  at the time that S was being added  as a joint 
account holder.  In any event I have considered whether the outcome would have been  
different had S been added as a third-party mandate as Mr G says he wanted. NatWest 
have shown that third party mandate would give S the same  access  to the account. So, I am 
satisfied that S whether a joint account holder or a third-party mandate  holder, would have 
had full access to the account and therefore  been  able to carry out these  transactions. 
S transferred £30 000 and then £100 000 from the Premier Saver  account  ending 7671 to 
Ss own account in August 2018.  I have looked at the terms and conditions of the account  
and I can see that either party to a joint account  can withdraw from the account  without  the 
permission of the other account holder. Because S was a joint account holder, I am satisfied 
she was entitled  to make the transfer  and it follows NatWest havent done  anything wrong in 
allowing S to withdraw that money. In deciding this, I have taken into account that NatWest  
didnt know of the dispute between Mr G and S at that time.
Incorrect advice  from NatWest?
Mr G has said that he was given  incorrect advice about how to remove  S from the accounts 
by his personal account relationship manager who I will refer to as Ms P. Mr G says that he 
met with Ms P after his illness and requested that S be removed from his personal bank 
accounts. I have  looked  at the evidence provided by the file, I can see that Mr G met with 
Ms P on a few occasions. Following the death  of his first wife in 2013, they met and at that 
point added S to the account ending  3392.  The next meeting was in February  2016  when  
Mr G met Ms P in branch  and two weeks later at home. They met to add his second wife J to 
the account. I think its unlikely Mr G would have discussed removing S from the account at 
this stage as there is no evidence of a dispute between  them  so much so that Mr G added S 
to the Premium Saver account ending 7671  in March 2017.  
According to the bank  case notes  the next meeting with Ms P was on 16 August 2018. The 
notes said they discussed the transfer S had made out of the account  and Ms P said Mr G 
was made  aware  that as the money  came  from the joint account the transfer was 
acceptable. Mr G agreed  he would discuss the issue with S. From the notes and the date of 
the meeting its clear  S had already  transferred the money out of the account. 
I note that Mr G requested advice  from the bank in December  2018 on how to remove  S 
from the account. This was after the transfer  was made by S. Mr G has suggested that the 
advice he was given  was incorrect. The bank has accepted that they provided Mr G with 
confusing and incorrect information regarding S being removed from the personal accounts 
and the business accounts. However, as the advice was sought after the transfer was made, 
Ref: DRN22544833I cant see how any advice given by the bank in December 2018 could have made a 
difference to the transfer being made  in August 2018.
Although the bank  has accepted its advice was confusing the advice was given after the 
transfer so I will not be asking the bank  to do anything else.
I am aware  the bank paid Mr G £690  in refund of charges and compensation for its incorrect  
advice and confusion  it had caused  Mr G. I agree that this amount is fair compensation in 
the circumstances. 
Charges on Premium Black account  ending 3392
The account  was blocked when a No Operations marker was placed on the account when 
Mr G let the bank know  of his dispute with S. However, he was still being  charged the 
account fee. Having looked at the terms and conditions  of the account I am satisfied that the 
bank is acting fairly in charging the fee. In deciding this, I have considered if its fair for the 
bank to charge  the fees on the account  if it was blocked. I think the bank acted fairly in 
charging the fee, I say this because the account holders were still receiving the benefits from 
the bank account. I therefore dont think the bank have done anything  wrong  in charging the 
fees and I wont  be asking it to refund the fees.
Taking everything into account,  I am satisfied that the bank have done nothing  wrong  in 
allowing S to transfer money out of the joint account.  Although  the bank have accepted  that 
it provided confusing  advice about how to remove S from the accounts, I am satisfied  that 
the advice was given after the transfers took place and therefore  had no material effect  on 
the transfers. In respect of the fees being  charged on account  ending 3392 I find that the 
bank acted fairly in continuing to charge the fee as the account holders were  benefitting from 
the bank account services.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2254483