K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Cash On Go Limited (trading as Peachy) gave her loans  that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Ms F was given two loans  by Peachy in March and May 2015.  She first borrowed £170 that 
was due to be repaid  in three  monthly instalments. That loan was repaid in May 2015. On 
the same  day Ms F took her second  loan for the amount  of £150. That loan was due to be 
repaid in six instalments. After making  four repayments Ms F told Peachy she was facing 
some financial  problems.  So she deferred  her last two repayments by paying  only the 
interest that was due. She then finally repaid her loan in February 2016.
Ms Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  that the checks 
Peachy had done before lending to Ms F had been sufficient. And since those checks  
suggested that Ms F could afford to repay  the loans he didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld.
Ms F didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Peachy was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Ms F 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Ms F was borrowing, and her lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Peachy had to do.
Peachy has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms F. Before each loan it asked  
her for details of her income, and her normal expenditure.  Peachy also says that it checked 
Ms Fs credit file before  agreeing each loan. Peachy hasnt been able to give us the full 
results of those checks but says that they didnt give any indications that Ms F might  have 
been experiencing financial  difficulties.
I think that the checks Peachy did before lending to Ms F were proportionate. The loans  that 
Ms F took were relatively modest compared  to the income she declared to Peachy 
particularly considering that she would  be making her repayments over three and six months 
respectively. And the repayments she agreed  to make appeared to be easily affordable  
based on what shed  told Peachy about her disposable income,
I appreciate that Ms F now says she was in a difficult financial situation when she took these 
loans from Peachy. But that wasnt  something she told the lender when she asked for the 
loans. And it isnt something that I think Peachy should have discovered from the checks it 
needed to do. I think  it was entirely  reasonable for Peachy to base its affordability 
assessment here on the information  that Ms F provided. And that suggested that the loans  
were affordable for her.
Ref: DRN24554422my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Cash On Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2455442