K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about National Deposit  Friendly Society Limited. (NDFS)
background
Mr D arranged two medical policies through a broker.  He has brought three  complaints to us, 
one against each insurer and one against  the broker. The one against  the broker has closed 
as Mr D agreed a settlement there.  I am dealing in this case only with the issues  against  
NDFS. 
Mr Ds complaint is that two policies  were arranged to provide extensive cover, partly (at 
least) so he didnt have to pay a policy  excess.  He says this hasnt really  worked and not 
only has he been asked  to meet some payments, the administration  and general delay here 
has caused him problems. 
One of out investigators looked  into the matter but didnt  uphold the complaint. They  felt 
NDFS had done  enough. Mr D didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a 
second look.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would be making an award  against  NDFS either,  Ill explain why. 
Mr D has an unusual arrangement set up by his broker. As his complaint about  his broker  
has been settled  I cannot comment on that settlement, look at or re-open that case. So, I can 
only look at NDFS role here, and the other  insurer to my companion decision to this one. 
As the broker arranged  the policies it would be for them (the broker)  to make sure they 
worked together to cover Mr Ds needs,  in an effective and efficient way. If they did not that 
would be a matter  for the broker. Which as I have  explained, I cannot comment  on. 
With that in mind it does  appear that NDFS whilst getting in some confusion  over the issues  
here, didnt  create any major problems. Faced with the unusual scenario of dual insurance  I 
think NDFS has done enough in trying to make this work. I would also add that if I thought 
they were at fault here,  and I dont, the redress would be a refund of premiums minus  any 
claims. I believe  from the figures  suggested  that this would  leave Mr D in a negative position. 
So, whilst it does appear Mr Ds insurance  arrangements havent  gone smoothly I think a lot 
of this is down  to the original arrangement here,  for which the broker is responsible.  As I 
cant look into that, as that case is settled, I cant say if the compensation paid in that case  is 
sufficient or not. But I dont think an addition award  is required against  NDFS. 
Ref: DRN28684572my final decision
I make  no award against National Deposit Friendly  Society Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2868457