K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Barclays Stockbrokers Limited delayed  the transfer of their 
account to a new broker.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs E decided to transfer  their joint account holdings with Barclays  to an 
account in Mrs Es name with her SIPP provider. Mr E says he decided to transfer  equities  
first as there  were only two holdings, and then to transfer the fixed  interest  holdings  they 
had. Barclays accepted the transfer  was delayed. It offered  £100  for lost interest, £200 for 
the inconvenience caused and £100  for the delay in dealing with the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In short I made the following findings.
Barclays had provided no evidence that six to eight  weeks  was the normal timescale  
for transfer as it had suggested.
It was reasonable  to use four to six weeks as the normal  timescale for transfer.
Because of the issues that arose with its SmartInvestor platform there was an 
increased amount  of work which meant the normal timescales  couldnt be kept to.
It was reasonable  to use 27 October  2017  as Barclays had done  as the date the last 
holding shouldve been transferred -10 weeks from the start of the transfer process.
If there  had been no delay all but one holding wouldve  transferred  by 26 September  
2017 and Barclays  isnt responsible for the additional time taken  to transfer the last 
holding.
Barclays should pay:
oInterest of £164 for delay in payment unless it shows  the payment was made  
earlier, on 8 November  2017  in which case it should  pay £135.
o£134 for additional tax payable unless Mrs E shows she wouldnt have 
incurred any tax in which case  it should  pay £268.
o£300 for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs E.
o£100 for the delay in dealing with the complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing any further information they 
wanted me to consider before making  my final decision. Mr E said he had nothing further to 
add and it was time to draw a line under the matter. Barclays said it had offered £400 for 
distress and inconvenience and would stick to that figure rather than the £300  I had 
suggested but didnt otherwise disagree  with my provisional decision or provide any further 
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party  has provided any further information that would lead me to change  my 
provisional decision my findings  remain as set out in that decision.  In short Barclays  delayed  
the transfer of Mr and Mrs Es account  and has to pay the redress  I set out. 
Ref: DRN21453692I note Barclays has said that it will stand by a distress and inconvenience payment of £400 
rather than the £300 I said it should pay for the delay in transfer. This is for it to decide  and I 
have not awarded  £400. But I would point out that the £300 doesnt include the £100 
Barclays agreed to pay for the delay in dealing  with the complaint itself which  is an additional 
amount payable.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons set out above and in my provisional  decision. 
Barclays Stockbrokers Limited  has to pay the redress I have set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN21453693COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Barclays Stockbrokers Limited delayed the transfer of their account  to a 
new broker.
background
In 2017 Mr and Mrs E decided  to transfer their joint account  holdings with Barclays to an account  in 
Mrs Es name with her SIPP provider.  Mr E says he decided to transfer equities first as there were 
only two holdings,  and then to transfer the fixed interest holdings they had.
The transfer  of the equities took around nine weeks. When they first started the transfer Mr E said the 
estimated time for completion  was only four weeks but Barclays then said it could take up to six 
weeks, and then eight weeks. The transfer of the fixed interest holdings started on 17 August  2017 
and completed on 3 January 2018. 
Barclays accepted the transfer couldve been quicker  and that the communication  with Mr and Mrs E 
couldve been  better.  It said it received the transfer request on 18 August 2017 and would expect  to 
complete this within eight weeks. But that it wasnt completed until 14 December 2017.  Barclays 
accepted that Mr and Mrs E couldnt trade online  but wasnt willing to pay any trading  losses because 
they couldve traded over the phone if they wanted.
Barclays said there was an issue with Mr and Mrs Es address but that this was identified on 19 
September 2017 and rectified two days later, so it didnt significantly increase  the time taken to 
transfer. Barclays offered  £100  for lost interest based on a rate of 8% simple  per annum for the period 
of delay  between the latest the transfer shouldve  completed and when it did complete. In addition  it 
offered £100  for the delay  in responding to the complaint and £200  for the inconvenience caused  so 
a total of £400.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and initially thought the offer made by Barclays was 
reasonable.
But the investigator  then gave a further opinion,  after further comments from Mr E, in which he said he 
didnt think the amount offered by Barclays fully compensated Mr and Mrs E. He said Barclays should  
pay the additional tax Mr E had to pay for dividends  and interest  payments that shouldve been in Mrs 
Es name  only. He also thought  it should recalculate interest  payable plus 8% compensatory interest 
as well as pay the £400 previously offered for distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Mr E said he agreed  with the investigators  opinion  in principle subject to Barclayss calculations.
Barclays didnt agree  with the investigators  further opinion. It referred  to the timeline of the transfer 
and made  the following points:
It didnt  agree the transfer shouldve been completed by 13 October  2017 as it couldnt start 
the transfer until it had acceptance from the new broker. But it accepted there was an initial 
delay and said it couldve been completed by the 27 October  2017.
Its normal timescale for transfer  from a Barclays Stockbroker account  is six to eight weeks 
and despite a thorough  investigation it could find no record of Mr E being  told the transfer 
would take four weeks.
There was no need to re-register the shares before transfer and this isnt a service it wouldve 
carried out. It would be for the new broker to do this.
The tax figure Mr E has used of £730 - which he says has been incurred  because  of the delay 
in transfer - is wrong even if all payments shouldve  been made to Mrs E. Giving Mr and Mrs 
E the benefit of the doubt only two payments were made which  should have been paid to Mrs 
E only. These amounted  to a total of £1,337.50
Ref: DRN21453694The tax payable of £1,337 if it had been paid only to Mrs E wouldve been  £267.50 compared  
to the tax payable on joint receipt of £401.25. It was willing to pay the difference of £133.75.
It had previously offered  interest of £100 based on interest at 8% for a 25 day period of delay 
but it is willing to pay interest of £135.68 based on interest  at 8% over 34 days.
It stands  by its offer of £100 for delay  in dealing with the complaint and £200 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
So it is willing to offer a total of £569.43.
The investigator provided  Barclays  response to Mr E who didnt agree  with its offer and the 
investigator didnt change his opinion  so the matter has been referred  to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint revolves around  the period of time that it took to transfer Mr and Mrs Es holdings from 
Barclays to a new broker. Barclays  accepts there was a period  of delay  but the amount of delay and 
the redress  payable  for this isnt agreed. 
When should the transfer have been completed?
Mr E has said he was told the transfer would take four weeks. He accepts  he has no evidence to 
support this and Barclays has said this isnt the timescale  for transfer of holdings for an account such 
as Mr and Mrs Es.
The only timescale I have seen in the terms and conditions Barclays has provided, dated  March  2017,  
is 30 calendar  days to transfer  an ISA account. The terms state that the ISA regulations allow for this 
period - although  the regulations actually  refer to 30 working days with a shorter timescale for cash-
ISA transfers. So Barclays appear to allow a shorter period for ISA transfers than the industry  as a 
whole. This is still not four weeks and I think it is unlikely  Barclays had a shorter timescale for non-ISA 
accounts.
That doesnt  mean  Mr E has said something he knows to be untrue or has misremembered. But if he 
was told this I think it is more  likely  than not to have been a mistake and I dont  think it is something 
Barclays is bound by.
But I have also seen no evidence that the normal timescale for transfers such  as that of Mr and Mrs E 
is six to eight weeks. In response to my request  for evidence it referred to its SmartInvestor brochure  
which indicates that typical transfer  for non-cash holdings is four to six weeks but could take up to 12 
weeks in times of high demand or with complex products -so there is reference to a minimum four 
week timescale within the brochure which might be what he was told. 
Barclays has provided  no evidence of six to eight weeks being the normal timescale  for transfer of 
any account  despite my request for it to provide  this, and its explanation of the timescales  has been 
contradictory. I think it is reasonable to use four to six weeks as a reasonable normal  time for transfer.
But what happened in the second  part of 2017  meant  Barclays wasnt able to keep to normal 
timescales. Barclays explained in its email to me that it was quoting six to eight weeks to customers 
because it had already received increased  volumes  of requests as a result of the change to its new 
SmartInvestor platform.
I accept Barclays did have to increase the expected timescale for transfer because  it wasnt coping 
with the volume of transfers within four to six weeks. I acknowledge Barclays isnt blameless for the 
problems that arose. But I think an additional  couple of weeks isnt unreasonable given the increased 
volume of work it had to deal with at the time.
Ref: DRN21453695Barclays has calculated  that the transfer couldve been completed by 27 October  2017 instead of 
when it did complete  on 14 December  2017. This is based on it taking 41 days to complete  the 
transfer once it had received acceptance of the transfer from the new broker. 
27 October 2017 is 10 weeks, not eight, from the date when Mr and Mrs E requested the transfer. But 
27 October allows for the time taken to transfer the last holding which took a bit more time to 
complete. The rest of the holdings had been  transferred more than four weeks before this and well 
within eight weeks. In the circumstances I dont think Barclays  proposed timescale is unreasonable. 
If there  had been no delay it wouldve  meant that all but one holding wouldve  been transferred by 
around 26 September 2018 based on Barclays  timescale - which would only have been around five 
and a half weeks  from when the transfer request was made   and is a reasonable time for transfer.  Im 
not satisfied  that Barclays delayed the transfer of the last holding. 
What were the consequences of delay?
Mr and Mrs E didnt have online access to their account whilst the transfer was in progress, so 
couldnt make  any trades online.  But it was possible to trade over the telephone, as Barclays has 
pointed out. Its possible  there would  also have been issues  with this given the significant overall  
problems Barclays was having at the time. But I have not seen any evidence Mr and Mrs E were  
prevented from making any specific trades because they didnt have online access.
Mr and Mrs E were not able to do anything with the money in their account  of £18,208 until this had 
been transferred. Barclays has said this was on 8 November 2018 but I think it is referring to when  the 
first holdings were transferred.  Mr E has said the money was transferred on 13 November 2017 which 
is the date I have used.
In its response to the investigators revised opinion  Barclays offered  to pay interest at 8% for a period 
of 35 days, amounting to £135 based on its calculation of when the money  couldve been transferred 
using its timescale  which it said wouldve been 21 September 2017.  Given  I have said the transfer 
date was 13 November  2017 I think the period of delay is around 41 days  so I think  Barclays should 
pay interest at 8% for that period which  amounts to (rounded up) £164.  If I am wrong and the date 
was actually 8 November 2017 then I agree Barclays figure of £135.
Mr and Mrs E were transferring into an account in Mrs Es name  only for tax reasons. Mr E argues 
that they have ended up paying tax on dividends/interest  at his highest rate of 40% when  this 
shouldve been at Mrs Es rate of 20% if the transfer hadnt been delayed.
He calculated the total dividend/interest payment  as £3,638 and that £727 was payable at 40% on 
half of this which he thought  Barclays should be responsible for. I dont think his calculation  is 
necessarily right for a number  of reasons. I note that he has said that the tax position is elementary. 
But I dont think that it is necessarily straightforward.
My understanding is that the payments were a combination of interest and dividend  payments. In 
2017/2018 as well as personal allowances there was a dividend allowance  (£5,000  for higher rate 
taxpayers and £500 for basic rate taxpayers) and a personal savings allowance (£500  for higher rate 
taxpayers and £1,000 for basic rate taxpayers).
Also my understanding is that any tax that was payable on dividends wouldve  been at 32.5%, not 
40%, for a higher rate taxpayer, and 7.5% for a basic rate taxpayer.
Barclays has offered to pay additional tax but only for the last two payments received  which amounted 
to £1337.50. I think these  were interest payments.   If half of the payments were  taxed at Mr Es rate 
and half at Mrs Es the total tax payable is £401.25. 
If the transfer hadnt been  delayed  and these payments were in Mrs Es name only she wouldve paid 
£267.50. Barclays  has offered to pay the difference of £133.75. But this is based on Mrs E having  to 
Ref: DRN21453696pay tax on these  payments.  It is possible she wouldnt  have had to because of the allowances she 
was entitled to. If there is evidence she didnt have to pay tax on these payments then the amount 
payable is £267.50.
Of the other payments  one of the payments  amounting to £625  was due on 20 September  2017,  
although it was paid on 29 September 2017. I agree with Barclays that as this was due to be paid 
before the transfer  of the holding wouldve  taken place, but for the delay, this shouldnt be taken into 
account. 
Barclays has explained that it hasnt allowed for any additional tax payable  by Mr and Mrs E for the 
other three holdings because these wouldve been taxable at Mr Es tax rate anyway. It says this is 
because who pays tax on the interest/dividend is determined by the ex dividend date, which 
determines who is the owner of the holding  for the purposes of the payment of interest/dividend.
 
I agree that the date of payment does  not necessarily determine  who is entitled to the 
interest/dividend and who then is liable  to pay tax. Im not satisfied that the relevant  date is the date of 
payment. Subject to evidence showing that only Mrs E wouldve been entitled to the payments if there 
hadnt been a delay Im not persuaded any additional tax has been paid on the three holdings as a 
result of the delay.
What should Barclays do to put things right?
I think  Barclays should  pay interest  of £164 on the delay  in payment  of the money  in the account  
unless it shows the date the money was paid was 8 November 2017 in which  case it should  pay £135.  
I also think  it should  pay £134  for the tax payable  on the last two payments that would not otherwise 
have been payable but for the delay  - unless Mrs E provides evidence she wouldnt have had to pay 
any tax in which case  I think Barclays should pay £268.
I have considered what amount should  be paid for distress and inconvenience. Barclays offered £200 
for the impact of the delay. I think that is a reasonable amount if only Mr E was complaining. But Im 
mindful that this is a joint complaint, and although Mr E has been responsible for corresponding with 
Barclays Im not satisfied that distress and inconvenience wasnt caused to both of them because of 
the delay. I think a total of £300 is a reasonable amount in the circumstances. Barclays also offered a 
further £100  for the delay in dealing  with the complaint.
my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reason  I have  explained.  Barclays  Stockbrokers Limited has to pay the 
redress as I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2145369