K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax,  mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs L bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a joint-mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch of Halifax. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L only, for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay around £531  a month towards  Mr and 
Mrs Ls mortgage balance  in the event  of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £28.14 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a pharmacist. The sale was obviously a long time ago, 
but Mr L recollects that he was entitled  to sick pay with his job of between 3  6 months and 
also redundancy pay. I note, however, that Mr L had only been  in his job for a short time, so 
these work-related benefits do sound quite  generous to me  any redundancy pay, for 
example, would have been very unlikely  for someone who had only just taken up a new job a 
few months before. 
Mr L also said he had suffered from high blood  pressure  in the early 1990s and also had a 
bad back, he thinks in around  1996.  Ive considered all these circumstances  carefully when 
assessing this complaint.  
Mr L thinks he made a claim on the policy which was rejected, but Halifax has no record  of 
this. Mrs L wasnt covered by the PPI.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that this mortgage account started in 1999 and 
closed in 2004. Mr and Mrs Ls representative has made lengthy and substantial  
representations on their behalf.  I will not restate  them all here, but I have  read and 
considered them all carefully. In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs L 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ls representatives  believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs L 
and the impact they would have had on Mr Ls chances of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN23785762The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs L received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator told Mr and Mrs L some  time ago that they didnt think we should  uphold 
their complaint  both parties have seen  and provided their responses to the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  for several reasons. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved informally, it has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ls. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding about the complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN23785763The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs L with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs L, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what  extent they suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN23785764damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs L 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs L know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  I think theres reliable evidence 
that this happened.  
On their mortgage application, Mr L separately signed a section  to confirm he wanted PPI 
cover. It would have  been equally open for him to not sign this section and proceed with only 
the mortgage application part. Another  application  form was then filled out as a consequence 
of that selection.  This form was specifically about PPI and this was also signed. It 
apportioned 100% of the cover to Mr L, rather than to Mrs L.
Finally, I see the mortgage quotation  summarised  all the products that Mr and Mrs L had 
agreed to buy, and this included a description  of the PPI and how much  it cost. So, taking 
everything into account, I think Mr and Mrs L knew the policy was optional  and they agreed 
to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax concedes that advice was provided during  this sale and this accords with my 
knowledge of these types of sale. This means  it had to advise Mr and Mrs L with reasonable 
care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  
and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs L. The adviser had information about  some  of their financial circumstances 
as part of the mortgage application. Its possible a demands and needs exercise was also 
completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs L had a need  for the policy   by asking 
questions about  their wider circumstances  such  as any health issues and existing means. 
However, I havent seen  evidence  which shows enough was done  to ensure the PPI was 
suitable. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs L given their circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
But while Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr L met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
Ref: DRN23785765-Mr and Mrs L had a need for the policy  Mr L was the main wage earner and it 
seems likely his and Mrs Ls finances would be put under strain  if he were not 
working  even allowing for any sickness  benefits he was entitled  to. So, the PPI 
policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs L manage  the consequences  were Mr L unable 
to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs L. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ls employment or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. Ive given  thought  to the pre-existing  medical conditions  Mr L 
has told us about. The high blood  pressure was not mentioned on the PPI application  
form he signed but the circumstances of this condition mean that it doesnt appear to 
have been caught  by the policy limitations and exclusions  anyway. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, disability  or unemployment , it still provided useful  cover  given Mr and 
Mrs Ls circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr L was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs L 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. The costs were  also set out on point of sale documents  Ive 
seen and described above.  But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether 
Halifax gave sufficient information about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs L 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs L, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs L all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ls representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ls. Ive considered  these  carefully and summarised  them as:
Ref: DRN23785766-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ls representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs L about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ls representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good  
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs L have suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs L? To what extent  did Mr 
and Mrs L suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  might  not have done all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs L. So, I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs L would  have  still taken out the policy, had Halifax done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs L, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr 
and Mrs L have suffered  loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax  
had explained  things properly, Mr and Mrs L would have acted differently, or whether they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs L say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs L had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr L 
was unable to work  because  of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they may have made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. And 
Ref: DRN23785767as Ive also already  explained, the information Mr and Mrs L were given about the cost 
and/or benefits  was clear enough, in my view. But the information about other aspects of the 
policy, such as limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs L thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs L pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable. Mr L was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable should the insured 
risks have become  a reality. Although he says he had a medical  condition,  I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest he would have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions. So 
I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
L might reasonably  have  expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs L from taking  out the policy,  Mr and Mrs L, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  Mr and Mrs L pause  for thought   although its possible they may 
not have been overly  concerned given  that if Mr L was unable (through disability) to carry on 
his own occupation  the chances  that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  fully pointed out to Mr and Mrs L that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 24-month  period. However, 24 months  was a much longer  period  than Mr L 
would have received full sick pay for. In those  circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs 
Ref: DRN23785768L would still have  thought  a policy that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would 
have been of benefit to them  and would help them manage the consequences should Mr L 
be unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  The policy  allowed for multiple  
claims to be made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time and 
ensure their home was not placed  at risk
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs L would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable  for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr L was made  redundant, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr 
and Mrs L would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP  App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs L would not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs L found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs L believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs L in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs L compensation, as that would  
Ref: DRN23785769put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs L think Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ls representative  says a court might take if 
it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs L and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs L in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2378576