K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Valour Finance Limited, trading as Savvy.co.uk, provided him with a
loan that was unaffordable.
background 
Mr K took out an instalment loan from Savvy on 26 April 2016.  The loan was for £1,000
repayable by 18 monthly instalments of £91.68.  The loan hasnt been repaid. Mr K said that 
the loan repayments took so much of his wages that he had to borrow from other lenders. 
He also said that his regular expenditure was greater than his normal  income when the loan 
was issued. Mr K said that Savvy should have realised from its credit check  that he had 
other unpaid  loans, late payments and defaults.
Savvy said that it carried out bank validation checks and income  verification  checks.  It
considered what  Mr K told it about  his daily living costs (rent,  housekeeping, household bills,
travel and socialising). Savvy also said that it had received  Mr Ks payslip to confirm  his
monthly income was £1,857 and that his declared  living costs  were £670. It had also
confirmed the living costs in a call with Mr K. It had also examined Mr Ks credit file. Savvy
said that there were  no missed or late payment markers or recent defaults. It noted that Mr K
was spending  £791 per month on his debts.  This didnt concern Savvy as long as Mr Ks
accounts were well maintained. Savvy noted that Mr Ks disposable income was £396 and
concluded that the monthly repayments of £91.68 were  affordable  and sustainable.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  should be upheld.  She had considered all
the information Savvy had gathered. She was satisfied that Savvy  took reasonable steps to
verify the information  Mr K provided about  his monthly income  and expenditure. But she said
that Savvy shouldve  asked Mr K more questions  following receipt of his bank statements
about his circumstances. And had Savvy done this, she said that it wouldve seen the loan
was unaffordable.
The adjudicator noted that Mr Ks normal monthly living costs totalled around  £1,247.This
included a large payment of £600. She thought it was likely Savvy wouldve known this was
his rent. She also said that Mr Ks regular financial commitments totalled  around £479, and
his short  term lending  totalled £760. The adjudicator noted that Mr K said he would use the
loan to consolidate four loans. So instead  of four repayments totalling  £407, he wouldve
only had one repayment of £91.68. But from what shed seen about  Mr Ks circumstances,
she still didnt think he had enough disposable income to meet and sustain his repayments 
even with a consolidation loan. So she recommended that Savvy  should:-
- Refund  all interest and charges on Mr Ks loan
- Remove any adverse information  about  the loan from his credit file
- Close the loan as settled.
Savvy asked  the adjudicator to send her income and expenditure calculations to it.
Savvy disagreed  with the adjudicators view. It noted  from the adjudicators calculations that
shed referred to Mr Ks rent as £600. But it said that Mr K had told it in a call that his rent
was £200. It also said that Mr Ks bank statement didnt identify the £600 payment as rent. It
also noted that the adjudicator had included a credit reference agency payment and an
Ref: DRN21147182entertainment app payment  as essential  living costs. These totalled £22. Savvy also noted
that Mr Ks credit card payments included  overpayments whilst it normally  included a small
proportion of credit card balances in its assessments. Savvy also said that Mr K had told it
that the purpose of the loan was for loan consolidation and that the loans to be repaid
shouldnt be included in the calculation of Mr Ks expenditure.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to Savvy on 1 March 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
Id noted that Savvy  was required  to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks  to make 
sure Mr K could afford to repay  the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr K was borrowing, the length of the agreement
and his lending  history. But there was no set list of checks  Savvy  had to do.
I explained that the Financial Conduct  Authority was the regulator  at the time Mr K borrowed 
from Savvy. Its regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make repayments  without undue
difficulty, and that this means borrowers should  be able to make  their repayments on time
and out of their income and savings without  having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
So, the fact that the amount borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low in
comparison with Mr Ks income, didnt necessarily  mean the loan was affordable for him.
Savvy had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr K. It had carried out a credit  
check. It also asked  Mr K for details of his income  and his regular expenditure and then 
spoke to him to verify the information hed given them  and what it had seen in his credit  
check. It had also received Mr Ks bank statement from around two months  before his 
application.
Id noted that Savvys  credit check showed that Mr K had loan balances  of £3,124 and credit
card balances of £4,655.  It said that he had 19 active accounts  with ten accounts opened in
the previous six months. But he had no delinquent accounts and no defaults in the previous
three years. The check showed that Mr K had eight loan accounts. But as four of these were 
to be repaid from its loan,  this would have suggested that Mr K would have needed to make  
a total monthly  payment of around  £239  on the remaining four loans.
The check  also showed that Mr K had around  seven credit  card accounts on which  he was
making a total monthly payment of around £340.
Id also seen Mr Ks credit  report.  I could see that three  of Mr Ks loans were repaid before
Savvys loan was taken out. Hed also taken  out a large loan of around £3,628 four days
before Savvys loan.
But I said I was also aware  that when a lender carried out a credit  check,  the information it 
saw didnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit report  would and 
it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
Ref: DRN21147183file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, Mr Ks other  loan 
might not have been identified by Savvys credit  check. So, I said that this might explain any 
differences between  the information seen by Savvy in its credit check and Mr Ks actual  
situation.
Overall, I could  see that the number of credit accounts held by Mr K might have suggested to
Savvy that Mr Ks finances  were  under  pressure.
Id noted that Savvy  phoned  Mr K about its credit check and the information hed provided  to 
it about his income  and expenditure. Id listened to a recording of that call. I noted that 
Savvys agent ha asked Mr K about some of his loans and their purpose.  I noted that Mr K 
told Savvy  that hed got into a bit of financial difficulty and he was trying to get out of it by 
taking out loans. Hed said that this wasnt the best way but he was trying to sort it out. So 
whilst Savvy might not have been over concerned  about the number of credit accounts  held 
by Mr K and that they appeared to be well maintained, Id thought it should have been  
concerned about  Mr Ks admission of his financial difficulties and sought more  information 
about the affordability of its lending. This was especially the case as the loan was to be 
repaid over an 18 month period.
I said that it couldve done this in a number of ways. It couldve asked for evidence  of Mr Ks 
income and expenditure such as payslips and bills, or it couldve looked at things like his 
bank statements.
Id noted that Savvy  obtained  a bank statement from Mr K for the period 27 January 2016  to 
27 February 2016. This was around  two months  before  the loan application. So I didnt think  
it would  have necessarily  provided an up to date picture of Mr Ks financial situation. But Id 
considered what  that statement showed. Savvy had told us that Mr K had declared regular 
living costs  to it of around £670.This  included  £200 for rent. I could see from the bank 
statement that there was no payment expressly designated as rent, nor was there a payment 
for £200. There was a large payment for £600. I thought in the circumstances of this case  
that it would  have been reasonable for Savvy to have questioned Mr K about the £600 
payment. I couldnt see that it did this. I thought it likely that Mr K would have told Savvy that 
the £600 shown on the statement  was for rent if specifically asked.
Id also noted  from the statement that Savvy would have seen that Mr Ks normal  income 
was around £1,857. There  were some other payments to Mr K for additional  work  but it 
seemed that Mr K didnt consider, or declare these  as his income. I also noted that Mr Ks 
normal living  costs were  somewhat higher than hed declared  around  £1,447  including 
£600 for rent. 
I didnt agree with Savvy  that the payments for the credit reference agency and the 
entertainment app shouldnt be included within Mr Ks outgoings. These were payments that 
Mr K was making regularly and so I thought they should be included  within  his regular  
normal expenditure.
I also noted that Savvy used an amount for credit card repayments  in its affordability
assessment to reflect minimum repayment amounts.  This seemed  reasonable to me.
So if Savvy had taken  into account  Mr Ks actual living costs, the minimum credit card
repayment amounts  on his credit cards and the outstanding loan repayments of £239 it was
aware of from its credit  check (not including the loans  to be repaid from the consolidation
Ref: DRN21147184loan), I thought  these  would have suggested that the loan wasnt sustainable.
I said that I would normally review a borrowers bank statements for the month before a loan 
to independently check the information  a borrower  had provided. So Id tried to do this here 
by looking at Mr Ks bank statements at the time of this loan,  to see what  better and more  up 
to date checks would have shown Savvy. These again showed that his normal  living  costs,
regular financial commitments  and short term lending were higher  than Mr Ks normal
income. So, if Savvy had reviewed a more recent bank statement, I thought it was likely that 
it would  have also concluded that the loan wasnt sustainable.
In summary  I thought  better checks would have  suggested to Savvy that it shouldnt have 
given Mr K the loan and I thought it needed  to pay Mr K some  compensation relating to this 
loan.
Id also noted  that the adjudicator said that the outstanding principal balance  should be 
written off. But since the adjudicators view, I understood  that Mr K had repaid the 
outstanding principal balance. I thought it was reasonable for Mr K to have repaid the 
principal balance as he had had use of this money. But I didnt know  if Mr K had paid any 
interest and charges on the loan. If he had done  so, I said that these should be refunded  
with 8% statutory interest paid on any refunds  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. I also understood that Savvy was saying that it was willing to write off the 
remaining balance and update the credit file agencies to say the loan had been satisfied. But 
it wasnt willing to remove the adverse  information from Mr Ks credit file. As I thought  that 
Savvy shouldnt have  given  Mr K the loan,  I thought  Savvy  should  remove  any adverse 
information about the loan from Mr Ks credit file.
Subject to any further representations by Mr K or Savvy my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order Valour Finance Limited,  trading as 
Savvy.co.uk, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr K paid on the loan;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from the loan;
4. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan
    and  pay any balance to Mr K; and
5. Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest.  Savvy must give
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If Savvy intends
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Both Mr K and Savvy responded to say that they accepted my decision. Savvy  also said that 
Mr K should  send it his bank details and ensure no further payments were  sent to it by 
Mr Ks debt managers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN21147185Given that both Mr K and Savvy have accepted  my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  the 
complaint and require Savvy to pay Mr K some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Valour Finance Limited, trading  as Savvy.co.uk,  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr K paid on the loan;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date
    of settlement;
3. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from the loan;
4. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on the loan
    and  pay any balance to Mr K; and
5. Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Ks credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Savvy to take off tax from this interest.  Savvy must give
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If Savvy intends
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2114718