K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC hasnt treated them fairly now theyve 
come to the end of their interest  only mortgage  term.
background
Mr and Mrs H have an interest only mortgage and associated mortgage  current account. The 
term came  to an end in early 2018. Mr and Mrs H first asked Barclays to extend the term, but 
Barclays refused. Mr and Mrs H then asked for a new mortgage on repayment  terms to 
replace the old one (with the balance reduced by around £100,000) but again Barclays  
refused.
Another ombudsman  has said that the complaint  about the refusal to extend  the term on an 
interest only basis was made  out of time, but we can consider the later refusal of a new 
mortgage on interest only terms.
Our investigator didnt  think that Barclays had dealt with that application unfairly,  because  it 
would result in a significant  increase  in their monthly payments which  Barclays had 
reasonably concluded would be unaffordable. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said Barclays 
had obligations  to help borrowers  at the end of their term who couldnt repay their mortgage. 
And they said Barclays hadnt  considered  their application properly. So the case comes  to 
me for a final decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H took their mortgage out many years ago, and they agreed  it would  be repaid in 
2018 when the term expired. I dont know exactly what  their repayment strategy was when 
the mortgage was taken  out  there are suggestions in Barclays notes that they intended to 
use their pensions but they werent  big enough.  Though Barclays has also recorded that 
they had an endowment policy which they cashed in around five years before the end of the 
term.
At any rate, whatever  their original plan, Mr and Mrs H wanted to extend rather  than repay 
their mortgage by 2018.
They told Barclays that they were self-employed, and were directors of their own wholly-
owned company.  The company owned  land which could  be sold for development. But they 
didnt want to do that until they were  ready  to retire, which they anticipated being in around 
ten years time. When Barclays  refused their application for a term extension on an interest 
only basis, they applied  for a repayment mortgage  instead.
Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage  over a 21 year term, taking them  to when Mr H would 
be 85 years  old. The monthly payments would be around £1,500  per month   their existing 
interest only monthly payments were just over £400  per month.
The application records  that they had a joint monthly income from their business of £1,700 
per month. In addition  Mr H had pension  income  of around £3,000 per year (so around  £250 
per month).  
Ref: DRN23996232The application says that their monthly  disposable  income was almost  £8,000   but this 
doesnt match their regular income. It is recorded that they also take shares  of the business 
profit. In the year before the application,  Mr Hs share was £450,000  but that seems  to 
have been a one-off resulting from the sale of an asset. The previous year, his share was 
£8,000 and Mrs H took around £26,000 in both years combined.  
The rules  of mortgage regulation require Barclays to carry out a detailed and rigorous 
affordability assessment  when granting  a new mortgage  or varying an existing one. That 
assessment can only be set aside for existing customers not borrowing more  money,  where 
it is in their best interests to do so.
Mr and Mrs H were existing customers, and the new repayment  mortgage wouldnt involve 
extra borrowing. 
But its clear to me that based on their regular  income alone the mortgage wasnt  affordable.  
The new payments would  be around four times as much as the old payments. They  would 
take up almost all their business  income, leaving them reliant  on Mr Hs small pension  and 
the regular profit share for all their other  costs of living. And as their stated retirement  age 
was 75, the business  income and profit  shares would end ten years before the end of the 
term. They were heavily  reliant on a £10,000 current account overdraft at the time of the 
application.
As I say, the results of the affordability assessment can be set aside where its otherwise in 
Mr and Mrs Hs best interests  to grant them the mortgage. But Im not persuaded that is the 
case here.
Granting this mortgage would tie Mr and Mrs H in for a further 20 years, based on income  
that appears to be barely enough  to pay the mortgage and their costs  of living. Even  on the 
lower interest only payments they were  dependent on their overdraft. 
At the same time, only a year or so before  the application Mr H had taken out of the 
business enough profit to clear the mortgage  balance entirely  (or  even if that payment was 
before tax, to very substantially reduce it). They told Barclays the company had other  assets 
that could be sold and raise perhaps £2million, in addition to the £450,000 Mr H took in 
2017. Mr H told Barclays that one reason for applying for the mortgage was that if it was paid 
off by using these assets there would be a significant tax liability   which wouldnt be the 
case if they converted it to repayment  and cleared  it gradually.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs H didnt want to incur that liability. But at the same time 
they had known for many years that their mortgage  fell due in 2018.  They  had time to put 
arrangements in place to repay the mortgage  and, it seems,  had the means to do so. And I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Barclays to wait ten or twenty years for the mortgage to be 
repaid when Mr and Mrs H could repay it now so they can pay less tax.
As I say, based on their income  alone   which is the basis  of an affordability assessment  
converting to repayment wouldnt be affordable. I dont think it would be in their best interests 
to commit them to paying an unaffordable mortgage  until theyre 85. And, as it appears they 
have the means  to repay it without putting  themselves in that position, I dont think it was 
unfair for Barclays to refuse their application.
Ref: DRN23996233Mr and Mrs H are right that the regulator  has given guidance to lenders on fair treatment of 
borrowers coming to the end of an interest only mortgage. The guidance requires lenders to 
work with borrowers  to try and ensure the mortgage  is repaid  in an orderly  way. It doesnt  
require lenders to grant any particular application   all depends on the circumstances of the 
individual case. Ive explained  why I think Barclays has acted fairly in this particular case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2399623