K822xcomplaint
Mrs C says she was misled  as to the list price of a new car she acquired under a hire 
purchase agreement  with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).  This has 
resulted in Mrs C unexpectedly being  charged  a higher amount for the cars vehicle tax by 
the DVLA.
background 
In March 2018 Mrs C acquired a new car via a four year hire purchase agreement  with 
MBFS. She had attended the dealership with her son, and says that they were both clear 
with the salesperson that they wanted  a car costing less than £40,000 so as not to attract  the 
higher rate of the vehicle  tax.
Mrs C and her son were  reassured the car they had chosen was under £40,000. This was 
also reflected in the cars sales invoice and in the hire purchase agreement which set out the 
cost of the car.
In February 2019  Mrs C received a notice from the DVLA  that the cars vehicle tax would be 
due shortly and that she was required  to pay the sum of £450. This was more than shed 
expected and meant the car had fallen into the category where an additional supplement 
was due because  of the cars price. Mrs C complained to the dealership  that she had been  
misled about the cars value. The dealership said that that tax amount was incorrect  and 
then failed to respond  to further enquiries  made  by Mrs C.
Mrs C complained to MBFS. MBFS didnt uphold her complaint, it said the cars list price was 
below £40,000  and Mrs C should  contact the DVLA for an explanation.
Mrs C was unhappy about MBFSs view and complained to this service.  She said she 
wanted to reject the car as it had been  mis-sold to her. Our adjudicator  partially upheld Mrs 
Cs complaint as although she agreed Mrs C had been given misleading information about 
the cars  price she still thought Mrs C would have proceeded to enter into the hire purchase  
agreement.
Our adjudicator said that after investigating  the cost of the car and obtaining  information  from 
DVLA she was satisfied  that the list price  for the car was over £40,000. This was because  
DVLA receives the list price for cars from the manufacturers and it adds the cost of any 
options fitted by the manufacturer as well as VAT. It also ignores any discounts that may 
have been offered by the dealership.
Our adjudicator said that although the invoice for the car gave  the list price  below  £40,000 it 
hadnt factored  in a large discount on the cost of the car that been provided by the dealer of 
over £8,500.
Our adjudicator said she was satisfied that Mrs C had spoken  with the salesperson  about  the 
cost of the car and the information provided had been incorrect.  However, she wasnt  
satisfied that Mrs C had been induced by the misrepresentation about the cars value to 
enter into the contract.  She said looking at the size of the dealers contribution  and the cars 
actual value she thought it was more  likely  than not that Mrs C would have still proceeded to 
acquire the car as the discount  was substantially  greater than the cost of the extra car tax.
Ref: DRN23535832Our adjudicator said that being  provided  with the incorrect information had caused  Mrs C 
inconvenience and distress as she had received an unexpected charge from the DVLA for 
the cars  vehicle tax. She said she thought £100 compensation would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
MBFS agreed with our adjudicators view. Mrs C disagreed she said if shed been aware that 
the cars  list price had been over £40,000  she would have proceeded to purchase a cheaper 
model. Mrs C also said the amount of compensation wasnt  sufficient for being misled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its accepted  that Mrs C had wanted  to acquire a car below the £40,000 list price 
threshold in order  to avoid having  to pay the additional amount thats applied to the cars  
vehicle tax. I also think its accepted that this was part of her discussions with the 
salesperson at the dealership.
Ive seen that the dealership informed  her that this car fitted her price requirement and that 
this was matched  by the figures  provided in the sales invoice and hire purchase agreement.  
However, Ive also seen that this car was available with a large discount provided  by the 
dealership. Im aware the DVLA  doesnt  take into account any discount off the cost of a car 
when assessing  whether  the £40,000 threshold rule applies  to the cars  vehicle tax.
Mrs C says as the car was misrepresented  to her it would be fair for her to now reject it. But 
when looking at complaints of misrepresentation  I'd need to be satisfied that the dealer 
probably told Mrs C something that wasn't  true and that untrue statement on its own 
induced Mrs C to take out this hire purchase agreement. 
Looking at the evidence,  I accept that it's likely  there was an untrue statement by the 
dealership as to the list price of the car being under £40.000. And I'm reasonably sure 
that the statement from the dealer about the cars  value would have been  an important 
factor in Mrs C taking out the hire purchase agreement. But I'm not sure it was the only 
one.
Mrs C says had she known the true list price of the car she would have arranged  to take a 
cheaper model instead. But looking  at the size of the discount  provided, and that this 
enabled her to have a car of a higher specification and value at a monthly  cost that she 
was happy with, I think its reasonable to say Mrs C would have still entered into this hire 
purchase agreement.  The amount of the discount was considerably more than the 
additional road tax that would fall due. So I cant reasonably  say that this agreement was 
financially detrimental to Mrs C. And I think this is an important factor to take into account  
when considering whether the inducement  to take out the agreement was only due to 
what had been said about the list price of the car, or whether there were other influences 
involved.
I appreciate  Mrs C has been  disappointed  about  how the dealership  handled  her 
complaint  but I cant  hold MBFS  responsible  for that. However,  I do accept  that receiving  
the vehicle  excise  duty reminder  from the DVLA  would  have  been  a cause  of frustration  
Ref: DRN23535833and upset  to Mrs C. And I think  £100  compensation  is reasonable  to reflect  the impact  
the misleading  information  has had on Mrs C. 
So for the reasons  given  Im partially  upholding  Mrs C complaint.
my final decision
As set out above Im partially upholding Mrs C complaint and Im asking Mercedes-Benz  
Financial Services UK Limited  to pay Mrs C £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused for being misled about  the list price  of the car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2353583