K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as 
Barclaycard) didnt  act responsibly when they increased his limit on his Barclaycard 
accounts. 
background 
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of my final decision.  
I explained I was intending to uphold  this complaint. In summary I said I didnt think Barclays  
did enough to make sure the final increase in the credit limit was affordable for Mr P and that 
there were signs he was increasingly  relying  on credit to get by. I pointed to a number of 
factors that I thought should have indicated this including  Mr Ps income, a high level of 
spread betting  activity  and Mr Ps reliance on other credit, such  as personal loans taken out 
by both him and his wife, Mrs P. 
I didnt think it was fair for Barclays to write off the debt but I thought they should  refund 
interest and charges from the 4 April 2013 and add 8% simple  interest  from the point the 
credit was taken out to the point of settlement.  
Barclays responded to ask for clarification about  the application of interest as they referred 
to our general approach - which is to award 8% simple interest  when theres a credit  balance 
once the refund has been calculated. Once  the refund  for the interest and charges was 
calculated the account was left with a negative balance of just under  £900. So there wasnt a 
credit balance. Having  considered the wider circumstances, Barclays agreed to write  off the 
outstanding debt altogether. 
Our adjudicator explained to the executors  the 8% wouldnt be added  because there wasnt 
a credit balance but that Barclays had agreed to write off the outstanding amount. The 
executors responded with their comments.  In summary they said:
The banks offer was completely unfair
 
Our service needs to take a holistic  approach to all the complaints were considering 
There is no mention of spread betting as an addiction or sophisticated investment 
strategy 
My summary of the complaint is watered  down  and the executors verbatim response  
should be published
The executors  should  have the opportunity to meet with me face to face to make their 
case
Loans taken  out before 2011 should  be taken into account  as there is a pattern of 
behaviour demonstrated  by Barclays which shows a disregard for the rules
They havent had access to all of the information provided to our service by Barclays
Ref: DRN26176632My assessment of spread betting  is misinformed  and incomplete for a number of 
reasons
The principal amounts should be refunded  if this doesnt happen its unjust, unfair  
and contradicts the approach taken  by the courts and our service in other  cases
The decision should  state the executors arent bound  by it and no real monetary 
award has been made in recognition of the late Mr P and Mrs Ps losses.  
They want a fair settlement which reflects  Barclays unfair and unjust behaviour.  The 
open and transparent  position is that there is no real loss for Barclays  for their 
irresponsible behaviour
They want a sincere apology from Barclays. 
The executors also made  a counter  offer in which they proposed Barclays should pay all 
amounts outstanding, the amounts awarded  by me (not offset against anything)  and half the 
principal amounts of all loans open  since the death of Mr P. Barclays didnt agree to the 
executors proposed resolution and so I need  to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision and in a letter to the executors I dont think  its 
necessary to meet with them. Our service is informal and I think  theres enough evidence for 
me to be able to make  a decision without a hearing.   
Im sorry  to hear that the executors feel Ive watered down their comments and responses. 
Whilst I havent specifically referred to each and every point in their detailed comments and 
responses I have taken all of the information  into account. I appreciate the executors want  
me to detail their verbatim response  but Ive summarised the key points theyve raised that I 
think are relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
The complaints do need to be dealt  with separately because they involve different legal 
entities. But, as I explained in my provisional decision, I have taken into account the wider 
circumstances of the late Mr P and Mrs P. I referred  to this in my provisional decision and it 
formed part of my findings.  
Barclays have agreed to refund the interest  and charges  and applied  this to the outstanding 
account balance.  The total credit card debt was over £10 000 and, once the interest and 
charges were refunded, the outstanding  debt is around £900. Barclays has agreed  to write 
this off given the wider  circumstances  of this case. This goes beyond  the settlement I was 
intending to direct Barclays to make. 
The further comments from the executors havent changed my thoughts about the outcome 
of this complaint  and I think the offer from Barclays is fair because: 
Ref: DRN26176633I dont think that its fair to direct Barclays to refund the charges and interest  to the 
executors directly or to refund them for the principal amounts.  Mr P spent the money 
he borrowed in the manner he chose, which included the legitimate activity of spread  
betting. The evidence  Ive seen suggests  that this formed  part of Mr Ps way of 
managing his overall finances. So Im not persuaded by the representations that Mr P 
didnt have the benefit of the money;  
The amount  owed was in excess of £10 000 which  is a significant amount of money.  I 
think it is fair the refund is applied to the account  to cover the outstanding balance. 
As Barclays has agreed to write off the remaining balance  the executors wont  need 
to make any further payments from the estate which I think  is fair in the 
circumstances. If the executors dont want to accept this offer they can reject  my 
decision; 
Its not for me to make a specific finding about whether Mr P was a gambling addict. 
My role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case  
taking into account any relevant  law and guidance - and to decide whether a 
business acted  fairly  and reasonably.  Ive explained why I think  there should have 
been warnings  signs to Barclays that Mr P was experiencing financial difficulties. 
That included Mr Ps spread betting history and the wider financial circumstances I 
set out in my provisional decision;
I explained why I didnt think I could consider the lending  which  took place before 
2011. Whilst I appreciate that the executors would like me to take that into account I 
remain persuaded that its outside  the relevant  time limits to bring  a complaint for the 
reasons I set out in my provisional  decision;  
I dont think its appropriate for me to direct  that Barclays issue a sincere apology in 
this case. What amounts to a sincere apology is often subjective  and I think  its in 
everyones interests to draw a line under these events and allow all parties to move 
forward. 
putting things right
I think the settlement  Barclays has suggested in response to my provisional decision is fair. 
This means  that the refund of interest  and charges should be calculated  from the 4 April 
2013 and deducted from the current outstanding  balance. 
Barclays should then write off the outstanding balance  on the account as thats what theyve 
said theyll do  that goes beyond what I set out in my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN26176634my final decision
Im upholding the estate  of the late Mr Ps complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK Plc and 
direct it to put things  right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate to accept or reject  my decision before 
20 July 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN26176635COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint 
The estate of the late Mr P has complained that Barclays Bank  Plc didnt  act responsibly when they 
increased his limit on his Barclaycard accounts. 
background
Our service has been  asked  to consider a number of complaints relating to the late Mr P and his wife. 
This complaint is about  Mr Ps Barclaycards.  However, Ive taken  into account all of the relevant 
information Ive been provided with in relation to each of the complaints before making my decision. 
Mr P took out a number of personal loans with Barclays and so did his wife. But he also had a 
Barclaycard which had a balance of over £11 500 when he died. His estate has bought a complaint 
that Barclaycard were irresponsible when lending  Mr P money because they say that he had a spread 
betting problem  and overall debts of around £25 000 when he died. Barclaycard didnt agree  and said 
that the account  was well maintained and they didnt know that Mr P was having issues with a 
gambling addiction. They said that increases  to Mr Ps credit limit were  commercial decisions  that 
were made in line with the account terms and conditions. 
Our adjudicator looked  into what  happened. She found that Mr P had two credit cards with Barclays 
and that one had been closed  in 2010 with a nil balance. There was also a card 
Mr P had taken out in 1994  which had an outstanding balance of over £11 500. She thought that the 
account had been well managed and that there were significant reductions in the balance when Mr P 
made credits towards it. So she didnt  uphold the complaint. 
The executors responded to say that they didnt agree and provided a detailed  response. In summary  
they said that: 
Theyd not had sight of all of the evidence  that our service had relied  on 
There was a steady increase in the credit limit which was mainly used for spread betting  
Although the balance did decrease at certain points it did increase again, for example in 
March 2013
The figures our adjudicator had relied  on as representative of Mr Ps income are wrong
Barclaycard  didnt  do enough to check Mr P could afford  the borrowing 
Mr P didnt make  a profit on spread betting 
Mr P was unwell and this would  have been evident to Barclaycard
Barclaycard  didnt  undertake a proper  risk assessment 
So I now need to make  a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As Ive outlined in my other decisions the executors have asked  to speak to me about  the complaints 
theyve raised. But I dont  think thats necessary  in the circumstances of this case. Ive received very 
detailed submissions  in relation to all three complaints  and Im satisfied theres enough information for 
Ref: DRN26176636me to make  a decision  based  on the available  evidence. Im also aware  that the executors feel that 
theyve not had access  to all of the information that our service has considered.  The adjudicator has 
shared with the executors the information shes relied on when reaching her decision. 
There werent set checks that Barclaycard had to complete before  deciding whether  to lend money to 
Mr P or when  increasing his credit limit. But they did have a responsibility  to carry  out proportionate 
checks taking into account a range of factors  including  the amount of money that they were lending, 
the lending history  and what they already knew about Mr Ps circumstances. The relevant  industry 
rules and guidance point to a number of factors  which might indicate that a customer  is experiencing  
financial difficulties for example, not being able to meet repayments or entering into a debt 
management plan. 
limit increases before 2011
I havent considered  the lending which took place before 2011. Our rules  say that we cant look at a 
complaint if it was made more than six years after the event complained of; or if later, three years 
from when the customer was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware of cause  for complaint. 
The rules do allow me to look at complaints made out of time if the failure to comply  with the time limit 
was as a result of exceptional circumstances
In this case, the events complained about are the increased to Mr Ps limit which took place  more 
than six years ago. And I think Mr P would have known  that he had cause to complain at that point if 
he was unhappy with the increases. Ive not seen evidence of exceptional circumstances so Im not 
intending to consider the limit increases made before 2011 although  I will refer to them as part of the 
background to the complaint.  
 
increases in the credit limit after 2011
Mr Ps credit  limit increased from £2540  in 2008 to £11 500 in 2013.  It remained  at that level until Mr 
P died in late 2016.  Between  2011 and 2016 Mr P took out a series of personal  loans with Barclays 
and his wife also took out loans with them too. The final increase in the credit  limit was in April 2013 
when it increased from £9820 to £11 500. 
Im not persuaded  that Barclays did enough to ensure that the lending  was affordable for 
Mr P and I think that there were signs that Mr P was increasingly relying on credit to get by in April 
2013 when the final increase took place. I say that because: 
Mr Ps limit approximately doubled between 2011 and 2013. And Mr Ps credit file would have 
indicated that since August 2011  hed taken out a total of three personal  loans with significant 
levels of borrowing. Each of the loans was for more  than 
£10 000 and the final loan was for over £18 000. And Mr Ps wife also took a £13 000 
personal loan in March  2013 which  was just before  the final increase to the credit  limit. I think  
its likely  that information would have been captured on Mr Ps credit file because  she was 
financially linked  to Mr P; 
I cant see that any further information was obtained about Mr Ps income and expenditure at 
that time. The information on the original application  form from 1994 said that he earned £11 
500. But I cant see that more in depth checks were carried out to ensure that Mr P could 
afford such a significant increase in his borrowing  on the Barclaycard;  
Mr and Mrs Ps income was around £50 000 which  was made up of rental  income, benefits 
and pensions. But I think that by March 2013 their borrowing pattern  and increasing level of 
indebtedness ought  to have raised some  concerns as their personal loans at that time 
amounted to over £30 000 between them. Whilst Mrs P wasnt  on the account  she was 
financially linked  to Mr P and their income  was joint. When the limit was increased their total 
debt was going to be in excess  of £40 000 which  was a significant  amount of their total 
income; 
Ref: DRN26176637Barclaycard  say that Mr P was regarded as an affluent customer. But even a brief look at Mr 
Ps credit  card statement history wouldve indicated  that he was participating  heavily  in spread 
betting and spending tens of thousands of pounds on that activity. He used his Barclaycard 
largely to carry  out transactions of this nature and I think that would have been very evidence 
from even  a brief review  of his statements.  The level of spread betting transactions on the 
Barclaycard increased  from the summer  of 2012 which  was before the final increase to his 
limit; 
Spread betting is a legitimate activity, which Mr P was entitled to use his money  to fund.  But, 
when considered  alongside all of the other information that wouldve been available  to 
Barclays, I think the level of usage here ought to have  reasonably prompted a wider 
discussion with Mr P about his wider  circumstances such as the reasons  for the increasing 
level and frequency of his borrowing.  Mr P was retired and his wife wasnt working but they 
continued to borrow more money from Barclaycard and continued to take out personal  loans. 
So I think  there were  a number of indications that things werent quite as they seemed on the 
surface; 
If Barclaycard  had asked for more  information about Mr Ps circumstances  I think that they 
are very likely to have realised Mr Ps finances were  becoming more  strained  Theyd have 
seen that Mr P had borrowed money from other lenders to pay off his Barclaycard balance  but 
that he quickly ran up his credit card balance again, largely on spread  betting. And if theyd  
asked for more information about his income  and expenditure I think its likely  to have 
indicated that he could comfortably afford his daily expenses, except for the money  that he 
was spending on spread betting. But I also think that, given the individual circumstances here, 
Barclays should have gone into more  detail about why Mr P wanted the borrowing  and how 
he might use this. I think if a proportionate approach like this was taken, then Barclays would 
and should have had serious concerns about  whether further lending  was the appropriate 
thing to do after March  2013.  It strikes me that what Mr P really  needed  was an honest and 
frank discussion about his financial  situation, or to be referred to a suitable organisation to 
help him with this.
During 2015 Mr P defaulted several times. He made a number of payments on the account  in 
June 2015. But the source of this money seems most likely to have been a personal loan that 
Mr P took out with Barclays at around that time. He largely cleared the balance but by August 
had spent  over £8500.  Most  of the transactions were  related to spread  betting. And by 
September 2015 he was in default again and was at his credit limit. There continued to be 
late payments and over limit fees applied  over the following year until Mr Ps death  in 2016; 
I dont  think that its fair for Barclays to write off the debt. Mr P had the benefit of that money 
and I think its fair that its paid back. But I think that all interest and charges 4 April 2013 
should be refunded. They should also pay 8% simple  interest  from the date that the loans 
were taken out to the date of settlement.
 
putting things  right
I think  that Barclaycard ought to have realised by March 2013 that Mr Ps financial circumstances 
were becoming more strained and shouldve done more to ensure that they werent lending to him 
irresponsibly. So Im upholding the complaint from that point onwards.  
Barclaycard needs to put things right by refunding all interest and charges applied  to the account from 
the 4 April 2013 and adding 8% simple  interest from that point to the date of settlement.   
Ref: DRN26176638my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold the estate of Mr Ps complaint  about Barclays Bank Plc for the reasons that 
Ive outlined above. The estate of Mr P and Barclays should let me know by 18 October 2018 if they 
have any other information that they think may make  a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2617663