K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Zurich Assurance  Ltds predecessor company wrongly sold 
them a 15 year mortgage insurance  policy which they didnt need (and werent aware  of), 
especially given they already had general insurance cover. They  also say that the company 
only discovered theyd  wrongly recorded  Mr Ds age in 2001, something which resulted in a 
higher premium and lower  cover.
background
Zurich rejected the complaint, and disagreed  with a number of Mr and Mrs Ds points. It said 
its advisor had recommended the policy in 2001 and that the £30,000 sum assured  was 
specifically designed  to protect their mortgage  during  its 15 year time commitment.  It said 
the plan had been adjusted in 2004, due to confusion over Mr Ds age, and was retained till 
its expiry in 2016.
Since this complaint was referred to this service there has been lengthy exchanges between 
Mr and Mrs D, Zurich and the adjudicator about this policy and their earlier one, with some 
continuing uncertainty about which policies were recommended, when and why along with 
certain key details. In particular, when Zurich sent Mr D a copy  of this policys details last 
year, Mr D noted that his date of birth was wrong and his employment  history incorrect along 
with other  factual errors. He said it also wrongly  said the mortgage was a decreasing  one 
hence the cover decreased to match this commitment,  but has now admitted the mortgage  
was interest-only.
The evidence suggests Mrs D took out a whole-of-life policy  in 2000 and surrendered  this in 
2005, receiving  a modest surrender sum. While there is confusion  about Mr and Mrs Ds 
place of residence at the time and Mr D is adamant  that they did not ask for the policy  to be 
cancelled the evidence suggests that this is what happened. The evidence also suggests  
that Mr and Mrs D took out a new policy  in 2001  providing level term cover of £30,000 for 15 
years, the cover being  reduced to £25,000  in 2004 due to the age mistake.
Mr D reiterated that they had never  agreed to the second 2001 policy. He said the advisor 
who had set up the original policy met them by chance in the street;  they told him they were 
temporarily living at a different address and he agreed to change  the policy details 
accordingly. Instead he fraudulently set up a new policy with forged signatures,  something 
they were unaware  of till this policy expired in 2016.
Overall, the adjudicator did not feel there was sufficient evidence  to uphold  the complaint. He 
accepted there was still some uncertainty about some key facts  and recognised  that Zurich 
had initialled denied that Mr and Mrs D had ever taken out an earlier  policy  something it 
had eventually acknowledged. But he felt the evidence indicated  that Mr and Mrs D had 
started a direct  debit  for the complained-about policy in 2001 and were therefore  aware,  or 
ought to have been aware, that they had taken  it out.
Mr and Mrs D did not agree, and said:
Zurich denied, for a long time,  that they had ever had life insurance  prior to this new 
so-called mortgage protection  policy
Theyve not been able to obtain the history of the letters allegedly  sent to them about 
this policy or to which addresses they were sent to
Zurich has withheld evidence about  these issues
Ref: DRN22211952They were given  a crime number in relation to the false  signatures and inconsistent  
dates etc.
They had sufficient  funds in the bank  and did not need  this policy; also £30,000 
would not have paid off the £89,990  in question
They had no access to the property where Zurich  allegedly  sent documentation
Given the life cover  they had at the time they had no need for this extra  policy 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons.
Overall, I do not think there  is sufficient  evidence to safely conclude that Zurich did 
something wrong.
I acknowledge that there  is considerable dispute  about where Mr and Mrs D were living at 
key points and whether  Zurichs predecessor company sent crucial documentation to the 
correct address. But given the passage of time and the limited  information available, I dont 
feel able to reach a definite verdict about  these issues. Nor do I think I need  to in order to 
reach a fair conclusion  about the merits of this complaint.
In essence, this complaint centres on whether Mr and Mrs D chose to take out this plan,  
whether it was suitable at the time plus whether, as they allege, the advisor  falsified 
documents to set up this policy without their permission.
From what  Ive read, I simply  dont  believe  there is sufficient evidence to reach  such  a 
conclusion. While I do not dispute Mr Ds recollections, the key events took place nearly  20 
years ago, and there is no other persuasive evidence  to support his case. Therefore, I 
cannot fairly conclude  that the advisor  in effect   faked signatures or set up direct debits 
without Mr and Mrs Ds permission, something that would have been necessary to start this 
policy without their permission. What little evidence that does  remain suggests Mr and Mrs D 
did agree  to this new policy,  even if they might have  thought it in some  way replaced their 
earlier one.
Given this, its impossible  to assess whether this policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds 
objectives at the time and whether this policy was suitable for them. I recognise the sum 
assured does not appear to match either their mortgage or another identifiable debt and that 
other details  appear  to have been  wrong. 
But I think Mr and Mrs D ought reasonably to have been aware  that they were starting to pay 
for an additional life insurance policy, given a second direct debit started to be taken from 
their bank account. So they ought reasonably to have queried this at the time. As they didnt 
do so I think it is now too late, given the time lag, to fairly assess the specific suitability of the 
policy in question.
Ref: DRN22211953my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2221195