K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) failed to cancel her 
term assurance policy when she asked it to, causing  her financial loss.
background
In June 2009, L&G arranged a term assurance policy for Mrs K. In August 2012, Mrs K 
received a letter from L&G informing her that it had been notified by her bank that the 
monthly premium could not be collected  by direct  debit. Shortly  after receiving this letter, the 
policy was cancelled. 
Mrs K complained to L&G in June 2018, saying  she sent the cancellation form soon  after 
taking it out and so it shouldnt  have  taken premiums. She provided a copy  of the 
cancellation form which is signed  19 June 2009.  In its response to her complaint, L&G 
explained it didnt  receive the cancellation form. According to its records, Mrs K contacted  
L&G on 22 August 2012  shortly  after it sent her a letter about the failed direct debit  and 
cancelled the policy. L&G says at this time Mrs K also made a mis-sale complaint. But she 
was redirected  to the seller of the policy.
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs K contacted our service for help. Our investigator didnt 
uphold this complaint.  She explained  there was no evidence that L&G received the 
cancellation form in 2009. And that theres  no record of Mrs K referring  to it when she 
phoned L&G to cancel the policy in 2012.  
But Mrs K didnt agree with the investigators  conclusion. She explained that she was told by 
L&Gs customer services helpline that at the time it was moving offices. So its possible the 
form was lost in the post.  She  also said she had only recently noticed payments coming out 
of her account. Our investigator  asked  for a copy of her statement showing the payments, 
but none were  received. Instead  Mrs K provided  a copy of the aforementioned letter from 
August 2012 about the failed direct debit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, much  for the same 
reasons as the investigator,  Im not upholding this complaint. 
I know Mrs K feels very strongly  about this, but Im not persuaded the evidence  provided is 
sufficient to show that L&G received the cancellation  request in 2009 or that it failed to act on 
it. 
Mrs K says she was told L&G was moving offices at the time. But the letter Mrs K received 
from L&G three years later in 2012  came from the same address as that shown on the 
cancellation notice.  Ive also done some  research and can see that L&G still operates  out of 
that office in 2019. Whilst there  is a possibility that the form could  have been  lost in the post, 
this is generally very rare. 
In any event, I would have expected Mrs K to have  chased L&G if her instructions had not 
been acted on. Mrs K has told us her health  circumstances were such that she didnt notice  
the monthly payments on her bank  statements.  Whilst  I acknowledge the impact this has had 
on her, Mrs K did become aware in 2012 that premiums were still being  taken.  But I cant  
Ref: DRN24551942see that a complaint about the cancellation  instruction not being  acted  on was made then. In 
the absence of any persuasive  evidence L&G received the cancellation notice Im not 
persuaded it did, or that it failed to act on it. 
In summary,  I dont find L&G has acted unfairly  as Im not persuaded it received  the 
cancellation instruction in June 2009.  For this reason, I make no award  against  L&G.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2455194