K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold  them an interest-only mortgage. They 
also complain that they are left with a balance  of around £25,000 still to pay after their 
request to change this sum to be on repayment terms went unanswered.  
Mr F has led the complaint throughout.  
background
In 1982 Mr and Mrs F took out an interest only mortgage with an endowment policy.  Around 
2006, Mr and Mrs F took out further  borrowing for home improvements and later that year, 
switched part of their mortgage to repayment terms. 
By 2006, the mortgage was split into five sub accounts. The repayment  parts  of the 
mortgage had a term of 10 years, and the interest  only parts  had a term remaining of one 
year and six months so were due to end in 2007.  The term for the interest only parts was 
then extended  until 2013 and Lloyds  Bank  contacted Mr and Mrs F to ask for payment by 
September 2013. 
Mr and Mrs F wrote back explaining that they would not be able to meet this timeframe  and 
that they thought the end of the term would  have been the same as for the repayment part in 
2016 and so asked for the term to be extended until this point, or at least for a further 12 
months to allow them  time to repay.  This letter went unanswered. 
In 2014, Mr F wrote  to Lloyds Bank  again  to ask for the mortgage  to be changed to 
repayment terms and to keep his payments of £510.  Again,  this appears to have been  
unanswered and later that year Lloyds  wrote to them  to explain that the term had expired 
and that they needed  to contact it to discuss how to repay this. 
Lloyds Bank  instructed a field agent in early 2015 who visited  Mr and Mrs F at their home. 
Mr F remembers this visit and explains  that they discussed transferring the mortgage to 
repayment terms and completing an income  and expenditure  report. He says that the field 
agent told him he thought it likely  this could be agreed. Lloyds Bank have provided records 
to show this meeting  took place, but it has no record of what  was discussed  or agreed. 
Lloyds Bank  sent a letter in 2016 which explained that a sub account of the mortgage had 
been fully repaid and that their new monthly payment would be around  £50. Mr F explains 
that he thought  this meant his mortgage  was repaid in full and that this lower payment was to 
cover the smaller mortgage taken out for home improvements. 
In 2018, Lloyds Bank sent a letter to Mr and Mrs F reminding them that the term had ended  
and asking them to get in touch to discuss how they would repay  their interest  only 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs F raised a complaint.
In September  2018, Lloyds Bank answered the complaint and said it found the letters Mr F 
had sent asking to change to repayment terms in 2013 and 2014  and apologised for not 
responding. It offered £200  in recognition  of the trouble  and upset this caused. Lloyds Bank  
also said that changes  to the mortgage  would not have been possible without a meeting to 
discuss how affordable  it would be. It clarified that the letter in 2016  notified them  that a sub 
account had been repaid  not the whole  mortgage   and that their yearly statements 
showed the outstanding  balance and payments to the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN24643062Mr and Mrs F were  unhappy with this response so brought the complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator considered  it and thought  that the first part of the complaint was out of time 
under the relevant rules. He thought that the remaining sum of around  £25,000  should  be 
paid but concluded that Lloyds Bank  should give Mr and Mrs F six months to explore how to 
do this, whether it be with Lloyds Bank  or through other avenues.  He also recommended  that 
Lloyds Bank  pay Mr and Mrs F £500  for the trouble  and upset caused by not responding to 
their letters.
Neither party agreed to this settlement  and so the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
What I cant consider
The first part of the complaint about  the mis-sale of the mortgage  has been brought  too late 
under the relevant rules. I can see that our investigator has already explained this and that 
Mr and Mrs F have  accepted these conclusions. Ive reviewed this and agree that this part of 
the complaint  has been made  too late. 
So what  is left to decide is the complaint that Mr and Mrs F have  brought about the amount 
that remains outstanding and Lloyds  Banks failure  to respond to their request to switch  this 
to repayment  terms.
End of term
The term of the interest  only borrowing ended in 2013. The statements in 2011 and 2012 
show a remaining term of eight months but this looks  to be because  in 2012 it was extended 
for a further year. From  the information  Ive seen, its not clear what  specifically prompted  
this letter  in July 2018 to be sent asking for information on how they intended  to repay the 
outstanding balance as Lloyds Bank doesnt appear to have taken further steps to recover 
the balance following the field agent  visit in 2015.  
Whilst I appreciate that this has been  confusing, and that Mr and Mrs Fs letters  went  
unanswered - they have had use of these funds and so I think its only fair that they be 
repaid. I dont think Lloyds  Banks lack of response to their requests means  that this debt 
should be cleared in any way and even though some years have passed since  the term 
expired, as the debt remains outstanding  - Lloyds Bank are still entitled  to pursue this at any 
time.  
Its a shame that these  letters  in 2013 and 2014 were not responded to and that the 
opportunity to explore what Mr and Mrs Fs options could have been was missed  at this 
stage. I think they should  be fairly compensated for this - which Ill come onto later.
But for Mr and Mrs F to change their mortgage from interest only to repayment terms, they 
would have needed to complete an application  and provide information  for Lloyds Bank  to 
assess if it would have  been affordable  or for it to be satisfied the change  was otherwise in 
their best interests.  Ive not seen anything to suggest an application ever happened  and, as 
has been established, the letters requesting this were not responded to. 
Ref: DRN24643063Ive reviewed what Mr F has said about  the field agent visit and understand why he thought  
the change could take place following the discussions. But Mr F recalls the field agent  saying  
that he himself thought  that making  the change wouldnt be a problem, not that Lloyds Bank 
would approve  it. And if it were to have been  accepted, I think  its reasonable to have 
expected to receive some communication from Lloyds Bank directly confirming this. 
I can understand why Mr F thought the letter in 2016 said that his mortgage  had been repaid 
in full. But this was in relation to a sub account and confirmed the lower payment of around  
£50 going forwards.  So I dont think this letter said that the mortgage was repaid in full.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether the account  should  be reworked to put Mr and Mrs F in the 
position that they would have been in had their request  in 2013 been agreed.  
Lloyds Bank  has provided calculations to show the monthly sum and term required to clear 
the balance, had the request been explored.  If the payments were to have been kept at £510 
as Mr F had asked, Lloyds Bank has said that it would have been unaffordable based  on the 
term remaining. 
To keep  the monthly payment at the same level, Lloyds Bank said the term would need  to 
have been extended by six years  and that this would have  taken them into Mr and Mrs Fs 
retirement age so it would  have needed  evidence from them  to confirm they could repay the 
mortgage in retirement  before anything was agreed. Considering this I dont think this would 
be a suitable resolution to the complaint. For the same reasons, I dont think the account 
should be reworked  from 2015 following the field agent visit. 
The responsibility to engage with a plan to repay this debt lies with both parties and whilst 
Lloyds Bank  didnt reply  to Mr and Mrs Fs letters, there still needs  to be engagement from 
both sides to address  this sum. As Lloyds has now found these letters  and the complaint has 
brought to light the issues, it is a good opportunity  for both parties to have an open  dialogue  
to address this debt.  
There could be other  options available to Mr and Mrs F and whilst  I take their point that they 
have lost confidence in Lloyds Bank following their experiences, I would encourage them  to 
engage with it to discuss options  to repay  this amount. For example, they may wish to look 
into a retirement interest only mortgage - Im aware  that Lloyd Bank offers  such products. Its 
not the role of this service to provide  financial advice and I think  it could be beneficial for Mr 
and Mrs F to speak to an independent financial adviser about their options.  They  may also 
wish to look into their options with other lenders.  
Having considered everything, Im in agreement with our investigator that six months is a 
reasonable timeframe  to allow  Mr and Mrs F to consider their options and agree a way to 
address the outstanding balance, particularly as the sum owed  has remained outstanding 
but not actively pursued by Lloyds Bank for some  years. Im also mindful  that Mr Fs 
circumstances have  changed due to the Covid -19 pandemic and given  the uncertainty of 
the current times, this six-month  period allows them sufficient time to consider their options  
and put a plan in place.  
Ref: DRN24643064Ive noted Lloyds Banks comments  that this wouldnt be treating them fairly as Lloyds  Bank 
might be able to offer them  further time if Mr and Mrs F speak with them. This might be the 
case but this timeframe is for Mr and Mrs F to decide how to address the debt, whether this 
be with Lloyds Bank or through other  avenues. 
As this time is intended as a grace  period, I think it would be fair for Lloyds Bank to freeze 
any further interest on this account for the six-month period from the time Mr and Mrs F 
accept my decision, if they chose to do so. 
Whilst I take Lloyds Banks  point  that this sum has been outstanding for some years  due to 
a lack of response  or contact Mr and Mrs F have  drawn their own conclusions about the 
mortgage until the letter in 2018.  I think that this six-month period is fair as it provides  a point 
in time, and a reasonable timeframe for a plan to be made to address  the outstanding debt, 
whilst also allowing Mr and Mrs F  who are currently retired  some  breathing  space to 
consider what options are available for them in their particular circumstances. 
Trouble and upset
As Ive said,  I think Mr and Mrs F should be paid an award in recognition  of the lack of 
response to their letters and Lloyds Banks apparent failure  to contact  them following the 
field agent visit. Mr and Mrs F thought  that the mortgage had been repaid so I think  the letter  
in July 2018 asking for information  about  their plans to repay the sum of around £25,000 
would have been difficult news to receive. 
I dont think that Lloyds Banks  offer of £200 goes far enough to address the trouble and 
upset the lack of response to their requests caused,  and the missed  opportunity  to address 
the debt at an earlier stage. 
Ive thought about what an appropriate award would  be. Its clear  that Mr and Mrs F tried to 
engage with Lloyds on numerous occasions to resolve the issue of repayment but were met 
with no response for a period of around  two years.  I also think that, having instructed the 
field agent in 2015, Lloyds  would  have contacted Mr and Mrs F to discuss  the findings.  As 
Ive said, the lack of response has meant  that Mr and Mrs F have drawn their own 
conclusions and now need to address the balance  in retirement. For these reasons, I think a 
sum of £500  is fair in the circumstances. 
Ive taken Mr Fs points into consideration that he feels more should be paid as hes felt 
unfairly treated  for the last eight years. I agree that Lloyds Bank could have treated them  
better, but Ive kept in mind that the mortgage term ended  some years ago and Lloyds Bank 
has not pursed  action  to date to recover the outstanding debt. 
Conclusions
I think a timeframe of six months   particularly considering the current covid-19 pandemic  - 
is reasonable for the reasons Ive explained. Whilst I cant  direct Mr and Mrs F to do so, I 
recommend that they use this time to engage with Lloyds Bank to consider their options to 
repay the amount outstanding and if this is not possible  then to use the time to explore other 
avenues and come  up with a plan to address the balance. And if, within that time, Mr and 
Ref: DRN24643065Mrs F identify a credible plan to repay the mortgage,  Lloyds should  allow  them a reasonable 
time to execute that plan even if that goes beyond the six months.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
I direct  Lloyds  Bank Plc to:
not apply additional interest to the account  and take no action regarding the 
outstanding sum owed for six calendar  months  from the date that Mr and Mrs F 
accept my final decision  if they chose  to 
pay Mr and Mrs F £500  in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by this matter
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2464306