K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that she was mis-sold an endowment savings  plan in 1998 by Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
background
Ms C took out a ten year endowment savings  plan, invested in a with-profits fund, through 
Sun Life in early 1998. In 2003 she took out a loan against the plan, and surrendered  it in full 
a few years  after that. Overall she received  less than shed  paid into it.
In 2018, Ms C complained about  the sale of the policy. In summary she said:
Shed  been  recommended the investment  by an adviser whose wife she worked with.
Shed  trusted  the adviser and hadnt  paid much  attention to the paperwork hed put in 
front of her.
Shed  signed  a few forms shed been told to sign. But she hadnt been provided with 
the full details or documentation about the investment, or given a chance to consider 
the investment  fully before investing.
She hadnt received some of the letters Sun Life said it sent her, and some of the 
point of sale documents shed never  seen  before. She didnt think  the signatures on 
those forms were  hers.
She hadnt received annual statements in the early years and didnt appreciate how 
front loaded the costs of the policy were, or the implications of cashing it in before its 
intended term.
Had she understood how the investment worked, or been advised  properly, she 
would never have taken this investment  plan out.
Sun Life didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. It told her it thought the investment had been taken 
out on an execution only  basis, in other  words  it hadnt  advised  her or recommended  it. 
And it thought the way the investment worked was clearly explained,  including  the effect  of 
fees and charges on what it would be worth over time. It said Ms C ought  to have been able 
to understand  the documentation  given her education and employment  in financial services, 
and it felt the signatures on the various forms were consistent.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  and thought it should be upheld. She 
thought it was more likely than not that Sun Life had advised Ms C to take out the 
investment. And she considered that the effect of the cost of life cover  and the charges 
within the plan meant  the investment was unlikely to deliver the level of return Ms C was 
looking for. So she didnt  think  the investment was a suitable  one for Sun Life to have 
recommended.
Sun Life didnt agree  and asked for an ombudsman to decide  the matter.  It maintained  Ms C 
was a knowledgeable investor whod have understood how the investment worked and how 
it was likely to be impacted by the charges taken from the plan.
I issued a provisional decision, explaining  I didnt think this complaint should  be upheld.  I 
said:
The starting point  here is to establish  how Sun Life sold this plan to Ms C. She argues 
that it advised her to take out the plan. Sun Life says this was an execution only sale.  
Ref: DRN28628452The obligations and expectations on a firm differ between the two types  of sale,  so this 
is an important point.  And I think its a finely balanced question  in this case.
Ms Cs recollections and Sun Lifes differ, and some of the evidence is contradictory  or 
incomplete. So Ive had to decide  what,  on balance, I think is more likely than not to 
have happened. In doing so Ive considered the documentary  evidence from the time, 
as well as the parties  versions of events. Im mindful that this investment was sold in 
1998, and that memories  can fade over time.
Ms C disputes that she was provided with any documents  about  the investment or how 
it was sold. She says she was approached by a colleagues  husband who told her this 
was an opportunity to make a good return and she trusted him. She says she simply 
signed an application form hed filled in but disputes  that its her signature  on the other 
documents.
Im not a handwriting expert. But I cant  see any marked differences between  the 
signatures on the various forms. And Ive considered the conclusions of Sun Lifes own 
internal financial  crime team,  who compared  the documents, along with others signed 
by Ms C over a number  of years. It concluded  that there was no suggestion the 
signatures on documents relating to this investment were anything  but Ms Cs.
Taking all this into account I dont consider there to be persuasive evidence someone 
other than Ms C signed the forms. 
The documents themselves contain  some  contradictions. The key features of the 
product contains  a section setting out how much the advice  will cost. And the 
financial review forms record an attitude  to risk and investment time horizon for Ms C  
which would be something Id expect an adviser  making a recommendation to need to 
know, not if a product  was being  sold without  advice.
However the majority of the financial  review  is marked  as execution only.  The 
recommendation section sets out that Ms C had read an article about demutualisation 
and this prompted her to ask for an endowment policy  with Sun Life. 
Sun Life has also provided a letter which was correctly addressed  to Ms C (which  she 
disputes receiving)  which detailed that it hadnt advised her on the policy  she took out.
Ive thought carefully about Ms Cs recollection that the adviser approached her and 
proactively sold her the policy, but I dont find that consistent with the documentary  
evidence from the time,  signed by Ms C herself.  I give more weight to the 
contemporaneous evidence, bearing  in mind Ms Cs recollections are of conversations 
that took place  more  than 20 years ago.
Im also persuaded  by the reference  on the review form to demutualisation. On the 
face of it this wouldnt be something that would naturally link to an endowment policy  
or investment into a with-profits  fund. It is, in my view, unlikely that something so 
specific would have  been mentioned on the form if it hadnt  formed  part of the 
discussion or reason  for the investment.
Further, I note that very shortly after Ms C made this investment, Sun Life itself 
demutualised  meaning holders of with-profits policies like Ms Cs would be eligible 
for a windfall of shares in the newly public company.
Ref: DRN28628453I think this is the sort of thing Ms C would  have understood and been  aware  of given 
her employment experience in equity capital markets. So, on balance, I think its likely 
the prospect of demutualisation as well as the return on the investment may have been 
a factor  in her decision  to invest. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think its more likely  than not Ms C took out this 
investment without Sun Lifes advice. Sun Lifes version of events is plausible  and 
persuasive, and supported by the documentary  evidence  from the time as well as 
wider circumstances  (such as the Sun Life demutualisation). Given Ms Cs job in 
corporate finance and that her education  included  a degree with a legal aspect to it, Id 
expect her to have understood the importance  of reading documents before  signing 
them. I say that, taking into account  the personal nature (albeit indirectly) of the 
relationship between Ms C and the Sun Life adviser.  Ive therefore gone on to consider 
the sale of the investment on the basis Ms C received no advice.
Having done so I dont think this investment was mis-sold. Ms C principally complains  
that she didnt  know how the charges would impact  on the return  shed make,  and 
what might  happen  if she cashed the plan in early.
Ive considered the key features document relating to Ms Cs policy. It explains the 
likely amount shed  receive back based  on varying rates  of growth,  and specifies how 
much would be taken  out of her investment in charges over the years.  It also details 
how much  Sun Lifes commission for arranging  the sale would be. 
I know Ms C says she didnt see this document. But as Ive explained,  my finding  
currently is that she signed to say shed  read it. And I think  shed  have understood 
from the document how much was being  taken in fees, and that if she cashed the 
policy in early she wouldnt necessarily  get back as much as shed paid in.
Ms C has also said she didnt  get statements for the first few years,  and had to take 
out a loan against the policy and then cash it in early due to a change  in 
circumstances. But ultimately this complaint is about the way the policy  was sold. Im 
satisfied Ms C was given enough information about  the investment to make  an 
informed decision about whether to invest.  Its unfortunate the policy didnt  produce  the 
return Ms C had hoped  for, but I cant fairly or reasonably hold Sun Life responsible for 
her losses.
Sun Life accepted  my provisional decision. But Ms C didnt.  She said,  in summary:
To conclude that Ms C bought  this investment on an execution  only basis,  I need to 
be satisfied she selected this specific policy and fund to invest in.
Even if Ms C was interested  in capitalising on the general  trend  in demutualisation at 
the time,  she didnt  know anything about  this specific investment before  Sun Lifes 
adviser told her about it.
Sun Life needs to prove Ms C contacted it to ask about this particular fund in order to 
say the sale wasnt  advised, which it hasnt done.
I said in my provisional decision that Sun Life explained the way the investment 
worked, including the characteristics and fees of what was a complex investment 
product. This must mean it had given her advice.
So Sun Life must have given  Ms C advice to take out this product.
Ref: DRN28628454Its contradictory to say Ms Cs background was such that shed have known the 
importance of reading  the documents, but that at the same time she wouldnt have 
picked up on the obvious errors regarding her height and occupation.
The adviser filled in a lot of the forms, Ms C just signed them (although she still 
disputes signing some  of the forms).  This shows Sun Life didnt give her the 
opportunity to read and fully consider everything before investing,  but simply got her 
to sign pre-completed forms she wasnt able to read fully.
Ms Cs familiarity with the adviser on a personal level led her to trust him. So she 
didnt read the forms in detail  and wasnt given copies to take away  and consider. 
I havent given  enough weight to the discrepancies  in the forms, and the fact Sun Life 
said it was charging Ms C a fee for advice. This further supports her argument that 
Sun Life recommended the investment. 
Ms C accepts  she was interested in an investment of this nature, broadly speaking. 
But she wasnt given sufficient information  to appraise the particular characteristics of 
this policy and fund.  Had she fully understood the impact of charges  and life policy  
costs, shed never have invested in this policy.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Ms C feels strongly about  her complaint. And I can confirm Ive read and 
considered her response to my provisional  decision carefully. But having done so, Ive not 
been persuaded to depart  from my provisional  conclusions. I hope Ms C wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive not addressed every point  or question shes  raised in detail. Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the central  issues to this complaint, in order  for me to 
decide whether  Sun Life acted fairly and reasonably in the way it sold Ms C this investment.
I remain of the view that, on balance, its more likely than not Sun Life sold this investment to 
Ms C without giving  regulated advice which would have required it to ensure it was suitable  
for her objectives and circumstances.
At the time of the sale of Ms Cs investment, Sun Lifes then regulator defined  a transaction  
as execution only if the firm could reasonably assume the customer wasnt relying  on it to 
advise him or her, or to exercise any judgement as to the merits or suitability of the 
transaction in question. I dont think its relevant whether or not Ms C went  to Sun Lifes 
adviser with a specific fund or policy in mind. Im satisfied Sun Life could tell Ms C about  a 
particular investment and give her information about it without meaning it was advising her to 
take out that specific policy. And for the reasons given in my provisional decision,  Im 
satisfied that this is what most likely  happened here.
Its recorded that Sun Life produced  an illustration  of a policy  on an execution  only basis.  I 
think that Ms C asked about investing  in a way that would allow her to take advantage of any 
potential future demutualisation of Sun Life, and its adviser gave her the details  of such a 
policy. I dont think it follows that it recommended  she invest  in that particular policy.
Whatever the nature of the sale though,  Sun Life still needed to give Ms C enough 
information about the investment to make an informed decision about  whether to invest. 
Much of Ms Cs response details why she doesnt think  Sun Life did enough to ensure she 
read and understood everything about how the policy would work.
Ref: DRN28628455Ive considered what Ms C said about trusting the adviser because  she knew him. But shes  
acknowledged she didnt  read the forms when she was given them.  And while I agree it was 
for Sun Life to ensure  she had the information to make an informed decision about  whether 
to invest, Im not persuaded  there  was any obligation on it to test her understanding of the 
product. It could demonstrate it had provided  this information to Ms C by having her sign to 
agree shed read and understood things, which on balance Im satisfied she did. So while I 
have sympathy for Ms C, I remain of the view Sun Life did what it needed  to and gave  Ms C 
ample information about the policy to allow her to make her own decision whether to 
proceed.
In summary,  I find that Ms C took out this investment  without advice. Sun Life provided  her 
information about the way the product work and what it would cost. She signed forms to 
agree shed read about the investment  and understood  what  she was taking out. I cant  fairly 
say Sun Life needed  to, or ought to have done  more before agreeing to sell this investment 
to Ms C.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  here and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2862845