K822xcomplaint
Mrs S says Barclays  Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg (Egg)  mis-sold  her payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background 
Mrs S took out PPI in 2003  when  she applied for a credit card. Both were  done at the same 
time using  an online  application.
At the time Mrs S was employed. While Mrs S hasnt given us any more detail about  her 
employment, according to Eggs internal records - the information Mrs S input during her online 
credit card application - she was working in veterinary science and had done so for six years.
Mrs S told us she was entitled to more than three months but less than six months sick pay 
 albeit she didnt  tell us her employment details as I said above. She also said she had no 
health problems  at the time.
Later on Mrs S, through her representative,  told us she had around £1,000 in savings at the 
time and had rental income from a property she owned.
The policy provided  cover  for accident and sickness, unemployment, death  and serious 
illness  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to 10% of Mrs S credit 
card balance in the event  of a successful claim for accident and sickness or unemployment. 
At the time,  it cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would 
continue to have  to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.  
Eggs records show that Mrs S credit  card account was still running on and after 6 April 2008.
Mrs S representative made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. And while  
I wont restate them all here, Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs S 
representative said:
Egg failed to meet  the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, the complaint  should  be upheld. 
Mrs D was advised to take the policy, despite  what Egg says about there being no 
advice given;
The true costs  of the policy, including interest,  werent disclosed;  
The exclusions and limitations  of cover were  such that theyd be considered unfair under 
the Unfair Terms  in Consumer Contracts  Regulations 1999 (UTCCR); and
The information Mrs S received was misleading.  These policies were  promoted as 
providing valuable  cover,  but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN26556402I issued my provisional decision of September 2019. I said here that I was minded to reach 
the conclusion  that Mrs S PPI wasnt mis-sold. I also explained why I considered Barclays  
offer to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit share  that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium was fair. I gave the parties  the opportunity to respond before  I considered  the 
complaint again.
Barclays said it had nothing to add in response to my provisional  decision other  than to 
confirm its offer regarding  commission and profit share. 
 
Mrs S representative said it disagreed with my decision and said it maintained that the box 
for PPI was pre-ticked on the application and so Mrs S did not choose to obtain PPI.
my findings
Although Ive only included a summary  of the complaint Ive read and re-considered  all the 
available evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide what is 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs S. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; and neither is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself started  before April 2007 and was still running in April 2008 and 
beyond. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  
Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about  s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in 
light of the Plevin  judgement are applicable. Ill return to this issue  later in the decision.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN26556403The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Egg, selling insurance  at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice  for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees  of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Egg at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these  codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs S case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence);  the law relating to the utmost  duty of good  
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Egg 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs S complaint. 
Key questions   
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Egg gave advice,  whether it advised Mrs S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Egg gave  Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her to 
make an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mrs S suffered loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN26556404Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs S and Egg 
before and after I issued my provisional  decision,  Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs S mis-sale 
complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.
did Mrs S know  she had a choice?
 
Egg needed to make  it clear to Mrs S that PPI was optional.
Ive seen sample internet screen shots  that Im satisfied Mrs S would have likely  seen when  
she applied  for her credit card. These allowed her to select  whether she wanted to include  
PPI with her credit  card or not. Egg says,  and I accept from the information Ive seen and in 
the absence of sufficient evidence to the contrary,  that PPI was added  when she applied for 
the credit  card.
Mrs S representative, in response to my provisional  decision  says it maintains the PPI box 
was pre-ticked taking  away  Mrs S choice in the matter. But Ive not seen enough evidence  
to persuade me that this is more likely  than not what happened  the evidence  from Egg 
suggests Mrs S had to select to take out PPI.
So taking everything into account, I think more likely than not Egg presented  the policy to 
Mrs S as being optional  and she agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure.
did Egg provide advice?
Egg says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs S disagrees.
I accept the sale took place  online, as Mrs S and Egg agree. I cant see that there  was any 
direct interaction between Mrs S and an Egg representative that would have provided it with 
the opportunity  to give her advice about  the policy.
Mrs S points to some  of the wording used  in the online  screenshots,  including: we strongly 
recommend  And protect yourself against the unpredictable and says this indicates  it 
recommended the policy  to her. But I disagree   Ive not seen anything which persuades  me 
that Egg made  a personal recommendation that she take out the policy.  For example Ive not 
seen evidence that she was asked a series of questions to allow  Egg to gain an 
understanding of her specific  circumstances and needs or that she was led to reasonably 
believe that shed  been given advice.  Rather  Egg alerted Mrs S to the fact that she could 
take out the policy and gave her information about  it.
So looking  at what happened when  Egg sold Mrs S the PPI, Im not persuaded that it 
provided advice.
This means  Egg didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable or right for Mrs S. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her to make an informed  
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
the significant limitations and exclusions.
Ref: DRN26556405the information
Eggs provided us with screenshots it says Mrs S would have seen, together  with the policy  terms 
and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs S. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs S at the time,  I dont think Egg gave  Mrs S the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
As Ive said this was an online sale. I can see that Egg described  the PPI policy  as providing 
cover against unemployment,  accident,  sickness, death and serious illness. It also informed 
Mrs S that the policy helped cover her card repayments at the cost of 74p per £100  of her 
monthly statement  balance.
The information provided would have given Mrs S a broad sense of the main things the 
policy covered. But it was Eggs responsibility  to draw to Mrs S attention the important 
information  i.e. the key information  about  the nature  of the cover and any significant  
exclusions and limitations, which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Egg did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs S, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that Egg adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Egg gave Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  to the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
what effect did Eggs  shortcomings have  on Mrs S? To what extent did Mrs S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Egg didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs S. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs S suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs S would have still 
taken out the policy  had Egg done  things properly. 
Mrs S says she wouldnt have taken the policy  out and believes that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs S had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. 
Ref: DRN26556406So what  Mrs S thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. I think  the extent to 
which this differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mrs S has suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs S ought  reasonably to have known  shed have to 
pay something for the PPI as this was likely  set out on the screens  shed have seen when 
she applied  for the policy.  I accept  that Egg didnt make clear the ongoing cost information or 
that the policy limited  the number of monthly benefit  payments  to 12 per claim. 
Mrs S told us she had more than three months  worth of sick pay and an amount in savings. 
She also says she had rental income.  But the policy would have paid out alongside  any sick 
pay and wouldve helped reduce her outgoings at a difficult  time and might  potentially have 
helped preserve Mrs S other  means  for other  use such  as ongoing household expenditure. 
In addition, the policy would more than cover the contractual monthly  minimum payment and 
had the potential to clear  the outstanding balance in full in certain circumstances. So while 
Mrs S didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim 
wasnt dissimilar  to what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based 
her decision  to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs S thought shed bought  and what  
she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions for which  treatment or advice 
had been suggested  in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy  and had recurred 
within 24 months  after the start, or had been diagnosed or led her to experience 
significant and substantive symptoms  during  the same  periods; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions  
placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mrs S 
wasnt a permanent  employee.
The requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs S be unable to do 
her own work, or other work that her experience,  education or training would allow.  
I do accept that theres a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs S from taking out the policy. 
For example, back pain and mental health  conditions are common  problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely shed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  I also havent 
seen any evidence to suggest shed have  been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  
for example, Mrs S didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and was in permanent  
employment. 
Ref: DRN26556407I still think Mrs S had some good reasons to take the policy  out. The evidence about Mrs S 
circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong for her; 
she was eligible for its benefits;  and it provided  cover that, despite its limitations and 
exclusions, could  have proved useful to her should the insured risks have become a reality. 
If Mrs S had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any other job which,  in the insurers  view,  she might reasonably be qualified  for, it might 
have played into her thinking  about  what shed have done. And I accept it may have given 
her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have been overly  concerned  given 
that if Mrs S was unable  (through disability)  to carry on her own occupation the chances that 
shed be able to take up a similar  occupation would also,  in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding the employment benefits shed likely have received and her 
other means. And in those circumstances  I consider  it more  likely than not that she would 
have taken out the policy in any event.  
That said,  Ive thought about  what Mrs S says about the limitations of the policy, for example  
that the maximum monthly benefit  was £1,500. Mrs S says that limitation, and others, meant  
the extent of the cover fell short of what she was led to believe it was, and were contractual  
terms which were  unfair. 
Ive considered this argument carefully.
In this case the complaints against the seller of the policy,  Egg, whos also the lender, but 
who is not the insurer. The terms have been put into the contract by the insurer and can only 
be exercised by the insurer. So what the insurer can and cant  do and whether its acted 
unfairly or not isnt something I can consider here.  My consideration in this case is whether 
Egg acted  fairly and reasonably towards Mrs S when it sold her the policy.  And if it did not, 
whether and to what extent I think shes lost out as a result.
Ive therefore  considered  whether Egg should  have  done more  to clearly bring the relevant 
contractual terms to Mrs S attention. And, having done so, I think it should have done more  
given the nature of the terms. So I think Mrs S would have wanted to know about them. 
Because Mrs S wasnt clearly told, I dont think Egg acted fairly and reasonably towards her.
But even if Egg had done more to highlight the terms clearly  to Mrs S, I dont think  this would 
have made  a difference to her decision to take out PPI for the reasons Ive already explained. 
I am also mindful that:
in relation to the maximum monthly  benefit of £1500, I dont think Mrs S wouldve 
expected a credit limit to be granted such that this term wouldve been of great  
significance or importance  to her; and
Ref: DRN26556408in relation to the term allowing the insurer to vary the terms during the course of the 
contract - the policy terms and conditions go on to give both parties the right to 
terminate the policy  with 30 days notice at any time throughout  the duration of the 
contract. So, if or as and when any new terms were  proposed by the insurer,  Mrs S had 
a reasonable amount of time to consider whether she wanted to continue with the policy. 
If Mrs S didnt  like any newly proposed terms and conditions, she couldve chosen  not to 
accept them and sought cover elsewhere  if she still wanted this type of cover.
Im also aware that Mrs S thinks Egg misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court  might  conclude some of Eggs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion, the reason why Egg failed to act 
fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided 
 but because the overall information Egg gave Mrs S, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2003 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
So overall this means  Barclays doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. 
But Barclays  will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should  have told Mrs S about that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mrs S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit  share  that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what Barclays needs to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. Barclays should also pay back to Mrs S 
any extra  interest  she paid because of that.
So in this case Barclays should re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs S the 
difference between  what  Mrs S owes and what she would  have  owed if the commission  and 
profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay 
Mrs S 8%* simple interest  if she paid off the credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs S can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, my final decision  is that I dont  find that the PPI policy  was mis-sold   so Barclays 
Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN26556409Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2655640