K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC unfairly applied charges for unpaid items to his 
account as well as monthly account fees when he was going through  financial difficulties.   
Mr G wants Lloyds Bank PLC to refund these charges  and to not apply charges in the future.
background
Mr G was unfortunately in a serious  road traffic  accident in December 2012 whilst abroad.  
He was in hospital from 25 December 2012 to 21 June 2013. A Deprivation  of Liberty 
Safeguards authorisation was granted for three months from 21 February  2013  to               
22 May 2013. 
Mr G says that due to the serious injuries resulting from this accident he faced financial 
hardship and believes  he is entitled to a refund  of the charges applied to his account. Mr G 
has provided evidence  of his injuries  and decisions made by the Social Entitlement Chamber 
of the First-tier Tribunal  regarding his entitlement to benefits as a result  of these injuries. 
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and concluded  that Lloyds hadnt done  anything 
wrong. Mr G didnt  agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me 
to decide. Mr G also raised other matters. However, these are being  dealt with separately 
under different complaint  references.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know Mr G will be disappointed with this 
outcome, so Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at charges applied to Mr Gs accounts  in the last six years  from the point at which  
Mr G raised his complaint.  During  this entire time,  Mr G had £20 worth of charges applied to 
his account due to unpaid  items. This is made  up of £10 incurred for a returned direct debit 
in February 2015  and £10 incurred for a returned direct debit in August 2015.
Ive had a look at Lloyds terms and conditions  (which would have applied at the time of 
these charges) and they specify that a charge of £10 will be incurred for returned items 
unless the amount of the payment that is declined is less than £10. In Mr Gs case  the two 
returned direct debits were over £10. So these charges were applied in line with Lloyds  
terms and conditions and I dont consider them to be disproportionately high.
Ive gone on to consider whether it was fair for Lloyds to apply these  charges  in Mr Gs 
circumstances. Mr G has told us he was in financial difficulties as a result of his accident. If 
Mr G was in financial difficulties and Lloyds were aware or ought  reasonably  to have  been  
aware of this then I would have expected Lloyds, in line with industry guidance,  to treat Mr G 
positively and sympathetically  this may have included, for example,  waiving  or refunding  
charges.  
I appreciate that the injuries Mr G sustained in the very serious accident he suffered were life 
changing. The decisions  and associated  documents Mr G has supplied  us with from the 
appeals at the Social Entitlement Chamber give us some idea of how Mr G was affected.
Ref: DRN28546472However, from the evidence provided, I cant see that Lloyds would have been aware  that   
Mr G was in financial difficulties at the time the charges  were  applied. As mentioned already, 
there were only two charges applied in the six years preceding  the date Mr G raised  the 
complaint. These charges  were  incurred over two years after Mr Gs accident.  The consumer 
notes provided make  no mention of Mr G telling Lloyds of any financial difficulties. It could  be 
argued that as Lloyds  were aware  of Mr Gs accident,  they should  have  been  aware  of the 
impact this could have on Mr G financially. However,  going  by the bank statements I have 
seen, it doesnt  look like the charges applied to the account placed  Mr G into a cycle  of 
charges as Mr G has described or made the situation worse for him.
So while I do not underestimate the impact  of the accident on Mr G, taking everything into 
consideration, I dont  think Lloyds were  wrong  to apply  the charges as and when they did. I 
also note that Mr Gs account was a cash  account  and there was no monthly fee attached to 
this. This means I wont be asking  Lloyds to refund the charges applied  to Mr Gs account.
I understand Mr G wanted his future  charges waived when he brought  this complaint. 
However, having looked at Mr Gs statements  (after  the point at which  he brought his 
complaint), it doesnt look like any further charges have been incurred or applied  to his 
account. And I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr Gs financial  situation is 
such that it would be fair and reasonable for me to require Lloyds to waive  charges going 
forward at this present  time.
If Mr G is in financial difficulties currently, then he should discuss  this with Lloyds in the first 
instance. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint against  Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2854647