K820x#14complaint
Mr M says he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in January 2000.
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL) as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint.
background
Mr M says he bought the policy  in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint and Ill explain  why.
Mr M says he wasnt aware PPI had been added to his store card account. FICL  say it would 
have made  it clear to Mr M that he had a choice in taking the cover and it would have got his 
consent before adding  it. Where theres a dispute  about what  happened, I have to base my 
decision on what I think is most  likely  to have  happened  taking into account all the 
evidence thats  available.
FICL has given me a copy of the application  form that was completed for Mr Ms store card. 
On it theres a section  for PPI called Account Cover. Next to this it says, Only sign this box 
if you require Account Cover.  It then goes on to say Yes, I would like to protect my account 
with Account Cover . I can see Mr M has signed the box to say he wanted  a policy,  so I think 
he agreed to buy it at the time. In my opinion, it was also clear  he didnt have to sign the box 
had he not wanted it. Mr M has signed  the application as a whole to confirm  the information  
on it was correct.
So based  on everything Ive read and been told, I think FICL made it clear to Mr M that he 
didnt have to buy PPI, and I think he agreed to take it  although  I can understand why he 
may no longer  remember this.
I dont think FICL advised Mr M to take out the PPI. So it didnt  have to check it was suitable  
for him. But it did need to make sure it gave him enough information about the cover so he 
could decide for himself if he wanted  to buy it.
I dont know exactly what information Mr M received about the policy  at the time of sale. But 
even if I accept  he wasnt given clear enough information about  the policy, I dont think  this 
wouldve affected his decision  to take out the PPI for the reasons Ive explained  below.
Ref: DRN28231872I think it likely Mr M was eligible for the policy and dont think  he would have been affected 
by any of the main things which may have made  it difficult for him to make a successful 
claim  such as a pre-existing medical  condition. He told us he was employed and in good  
health. Mr M told us he couldnt  remember if he would have got any sick pay from his 
employer. Hes also said he wouldnt have had any other means  of making  repayments  to 
the card if he should stop work  unexpectedly. So the PPI could  have proved useful to him 
if he had an accident,  became  ill or lost his job. Its also worth  noting that the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to any sick pay or other means Mr M might have had. So it could 
have helped him in what  I presume  could  have been  a difficult  time financially.
Im not satisfied FICL  made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr M to understand  what  
the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think  if
Mr M had properly understood the cost and benefit provided he wouldve thought  the 
policy potentially useful.
Overall, I think it likely that FICL didnt do everything it needed to when it sold the policy to
Mr M. But I think it likely he knew  he had a choice about taking the PPI and I think he would 
still have taken out the cover if hed been  properly informed  about it.
Mr M said that he didnt receive any benefit  of the PPI. But this was an insurance policy, 
and like most insurance policy it was designed to protect unforeseen circumstances. So 
Mr M would have only benefit from the policy  if hed have made a successful claim. But this 
policy would have also provided peace  of mind in knowing that his monthly  store card 
repayments would be met if he had to stop work unexpectedly.
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, but these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above,  I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2823187