K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has consistently failed to provide 
him with on line access  to his account, following the transfer of his account  to its smart 
investor service. Mr B complains that Barclays has not properly dealt with his complaints 
and has failed to recognise the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.
background
Mr B has made several complaints to Barclays about failings in its online smart investor 
service. Barclays  has acknowledged that its service  to Mr B has been  below the standard  he 
reasonably expects and below that which it wants to provide its clients. It has paid, or 
offered, Mr B compensation payments in respect of his various  complaints.
Our adjudicator concluded that the compensation offered or paid to Mr B adequately 
reflected his distress  and inconvenience caused  by Barclays acknowledged failings. 
Mr B feels  these  payments do not adequately reflect the distress and inconvenience  to which  
he has been put. He did not agree with the conclusions of our adjudicator.
As agreement was not reached, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Let me say at the outset  that I understand why Mr B is so frustrated at the poor service he 
has received from Barclays over a considerable period. That Barclays has periodically  
acknowledged its poor service and offered  Mr B compensation for this on the occasions he 
has complained  rather misses the point.
What Mr B wants  is efficient on line access to his account with accurate  information 
reflecting the value  of his portfolio of investments in his SIPP.  Barclays  has failed to provide 
him with this service historically and hence his complaints.
The brochure which Barclays sent  to Mr B describing its new smart investor  service  said:
Our new direct investing service will give you a better  way to manage your account,
making everything  clear, simple and easy to use.
This has clearly not been  Mr Bs experience  of the smart investor  service .
Mr B first complained about the service he had received from Barclays in November 2017. In 
response, Barclays said in its letter of 13th November  2017 that:
I have looked  into this and I am sorry for the poor level of service you have received. As I 
mentioned during our conversation, there  is no excuse for this and we do strive to provide a 
good service at all times. Our ID&V procedures  are there for your security,  however from 
what we spoke about I feel that you were  treated poorly.
Ref: DRN23318002I note that in its final response  letter  of 23rd February 2018 to a further complaint from Mr B, 
Barclays said:
First of all I   would like to apolog ise about  the poor  customer  service you have received 
from our agents, it is unacceptable  that no compla ints and no notes  were logged  each 
time  a call was made. You were also promised call backs which you never received,  
again I   since rely apologise prom ises were  not kept from  our managers   and agents.
For the inconvenience caused  and for the poor customer service  you have faced. I have 
issued a cheque  of 250.00 to your address.
Finally,  I note that in response  to a later complaint  by Mr B, as his initial  issues  with 
Barclays  remained  unresolved,  Barclays  said in its final response  of 18th May 2018  to this 
later complaint  that:
Taki ng  into account  the inconve nience  caused by your  recent experience,  I  have 
made arrangements  for a cheque  payment  to be made to you for £200.00.I  
appreciate this will  not change  your exper ience  but I   hope it may go in some small way 
to restor ing your faith  in us.
once again please accept my sincere apologies for the overall level of service you 
received from Barcl ays.
I also understand that in response to a more recent complaint from Mr B, Barclays has, or 
will, be paying him a minimum  further sum of £100.
In respect of his complaints, Barclays has, or will, have paid Mr B £550 in compensation for 
its acknowledged poor service.
So it cannot be disputed  that Mr B received  a poor level of service  from Barclays  over a 
protracted period  and that it has acknowledged this was the case.
I also understand that his patience will have  been sorely tested by being told by Barclays, in 
apparent mitigation of its failings in a later complaint from Mr B, that although  the online 
service showed opening  values for his investments, that these were a guide only.  
I agree  with Mr B that this was unsatisfactory. The opening values should  be the values at 
which investments were originally bought. I do not think that to show  these accurately is 
unreasonable, technically difficult or beyond the reasonable  expectation of an investor 
wanting to manage  investments on line, on a platform  offered by Barclays  ostensibly  meant  
to make managing  investments directly  by investors such  as Mr B, more  convenient. 
Having said this, I understand  this matter has now been resolved by Barclays.
But notwithstanding the wider portfolio of complaints Mr B has made,  I have no power to 
direct Barclays to improve its service or administrative processes.
What I can do is to direct fair and reasonable compensation, if these services fall short  of 
what should be provided and which have caused a complainant a financial loss and/or 
distress and inconvenience, to be paid to a complainant by the business complained of.
Ref: DRN23318003For the avoidance of doubt, there  is no particular  restriction  on a complainant  complaining 
about multiple failures by a business.  A complainant is entirely free to complain to a 
business about multiple, continuing failings about each such failing.  
So in this case, if Barclays continues to provide Mr B with a poor level of service, he is 
entirely free to continue to complain to it about this. If dissatisfied with its response (s), then 
of course he can refer his complaints here. But I appreciate this is tiresome. 
The hope  is that the costs, administrative expenses,  potential  awards  by this service  and 
attendant poor publicity from upheld decisions by this service, which are published, would 
cause Barclays to quickly put right the failings complained of.
I make  these  comments because in my view,  the crux of my decision here is not to decide if 
Barclays has provided Mr B with a poor level of service. Barclays has acknowledged that this 
is the case. It has done so in response to Mr Bs complaints  to it. It has paid (or offered) 
compensation for its failings to Mr B on each occasion he has complained.
Rather, the crux of my decision is to decide  if the compensation offered is, or if already paid, 
consistent with what I would have awarded, taking account of the principles that this service  
applies in calculating awards for distress and inconvenience, had such  payments or offers  
not been made. 
I am restricting my decision to that issue only because Mr B has not said, in his submissions 
to this service or Barclays, that he has suffered a financial loss, for example by being denied  
investment opportunities, because of the poor service  from Barclays. Rather, he complains 
of time expended  and distress and inconvenience caused in pursuing his complaints.
I accept of course that this will have  caused some financial expenditure, for example  
telephone calls, postage  and time that could have been better spent on other matters rather  
than preparing submissions to both Barclays and this service.  I have taken this into account 
in reaching my decision. 
I note that in response to Mr Bs various complaints, Barclays said:
Having reviewed this complaint  and the others Mr B has logged surrounding the same issue  
.the  combined distress  and inconvenience  of £550 plus another  of £100  from the 
complaint that is still opened, is extremely generous for the issues that Mr B has
experienced.
It is not for me to decide whether the payments made or offered  to Mr B are extremely 
generous. I do not know on what measure Barclays relies on in making this assertion.
But I am persuaded that the sums  offered or paid to Mr B  are consistent with what I have 
awarded had such  payments  or offers not been  made by Barclays.
I say this because  our awards for distress  and inconvenience tend to be modest.  They are 
not intended to fine or punish firms. These are matters for the industry  regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority.
It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that Mr B has received, or been offered suitable  
compensation as far as this service  is concerned for his distress and inconvenience in 
pursing his complaints.
Ref: DRN23318004I have also considered that aspect of Mr Bs complaint to this service in respect of his email 
address having  been disclosed by Barclays to third parties without his consent.
I understand that matter has been resolved by way of Barclays amending  its email records.  
However, if Mr B remains unhappy about this matter then that would be a matter  for the 
Information Commissioners Office  and not this service. 
This service is an informal dispute resolution service. We are an alternative to the courts,  not 
a substitute for them.
I have though taken account  of any further  distress and inconvenience  this matter  will have 
caused Mr B in reaching my decision.
For the reasons  set out above, I have decided not to direct Barclays to make any further  
award in respect  of the complaints Mr B has made to it. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.                    .
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2331800