K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about transactions that have been blocked on his credit  card account with 
Capital One (Europe) plc and about other  issues with his account. He also complains about 
Capital Ones response to his complaint.
background
Mr R has a credit card account with Capital  One.  He says that a significant  proportion of his 
attempted card transactions were failing for no obvious reason and he was contacted by 
security or anti-fraud personnel and was made  to call various phone numbers but Capital 
One never disclosed a security issue. So he asked  it to stop phoning him for marketing 
purposes. He asked  it for an explanation but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He wasnt  sure what  
transactions or dates that Mr R was complaining  about. But he didnt think that it was 
unreasonable for Capital One to contact Mr R in relation to payments that it suspected  to be 
fraudulent and he said that it was required to take reasonable steps  to prevent crime. He 
didnt think that Capital One had done anything wrong so wasnt  asking it to do anything 
further.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has made a 
subject access request and says,  in summary  and amongst other things, that Capital  One is 
concealing call recordings, providing  incomplete  responses and hasnt fulfilled his subject 
access request. He says that it frustrates routine sales  for reasons other  than security, fraud  
and identity theft and hes provided details of two transactions  from July 2008 with which he 
says there  were issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr R has made a subject access request 
to this service and that request has been  dealt with separately.
Credit card companies have a legitimate interest in identifying and preventing  fraudulent 
transactions. They use systems that try to identify potentially fraudulent  activity.  But not all 
transactions that are identified as potentially  fraudulent will actually be fraudulent. And the 
systems cant  identify and prevent all fraudulent  activity. Legitimate payments that a 
customer wants to make but which are identified  or blocked as being potentially fraudulent 
will often  cause inconvenience and frustration  to the customer. But that doesnt mean that 
the credit  card company is wrong to do so.
Mr R clearly feels that Capital One is unfairly  and unreasonably blocking some of his 
transactions because  it says that they are potentially fraudulent and that hes been contacted 
by its fraud  prevention  team.  This has clearly  caused  him inconvenience and frustration. 
Hes identified two payments from July 2008  with which he says there were issues.  But 
those payments were  made more than eleven  years ago and Im unable  to consider them as 
part of this complaint because  of the length of time since they happened.
When Mr R complained to Capital One it said that it was unable  to see any blocks  on his 
card which might cause it not to work  properly or for transactions being declined  - and it 
Ref: DRN20865662explained the circumstances in which it would  phone him. It says that it hasnt phoned him 
for marketing purposes.
I sympathise with Mr R for the issues that hes experienced, but Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that Capital One has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with 
him. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it 
to take any action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2086566