K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1998, Mr N took out a credit card with RBS. At the same  time, he was sold PPI to protect 
the repayments on his card if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The policy also gave him some life insurance cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr N disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.  Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
Mr N says that, at the time, he was unaware that the PPI had been added to his card 
account and he hadnt agreed to it.
RBS has provided a copy of the postal application form which  Mr N completed for his credit 
card. Theres a section  on the one page  form headed  Payment  Protection. And I can see 
that Mr N has ticked  a box in this section to say that he wanted to take out the PPI. Theres  
nothing on the form suggesting that the PPI was compulsory,  or that taking it would help him 
to get approval  for his card. 
So I think its most likely that Mr N would have understood that the PPI was optional and that 
he decided to take it knowing he had a choice.  But I can understand why he may not be able 
to remember this now, as he applied for the card a very long time ago.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr N, so it didnt  have  to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to give him enough information  to decide for himself whether or not to 
take out the policy. I think its likely  that the information RBS gave him wasnt as good  as it 
should have been. But from what I know about his circumstances at the time, I dont think 
better information would  have  changed  his mind about  taking  it. I say this because:
Mr N would appear to have been  eligible for the PPI policy  and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.
Mr N says he was entitled to some sick pay from his employer. But this policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to this and, potentially, for much longer than the sick pay 
would have lasted.  So I still think he would have thought the policy gave him extra 
security which  could  have  proved useful if things went  wrong.
Ref: DRN26751872Ive no reason to think the PPI premiums were  unaffordable for Mr N. And as these 
premiums were  paid monthly,  he could  have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met 
his needs.
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But RBS has offered  
to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr N, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium. RBS should also pay back any extra interest Mr N paid because of that.
RBS should re-work the credit card account  and pay back the difference between what 
Mr N owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. RBS should  also pay 8%* simple interest if Mr N paid 
off his credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr N can claim back  the tax on any such interest payment 
he receives if he doesnt pay tax.
RBS has said that Mr Ns credit card account  went into default and that there  remains  an 
outstanding debt on this account which is higher  than the offer which  it has made. So RBS 
has said that it intends to use the amount its offered  to pay back  to reduce the outstanding 
balance on his card account. 
Mr N has in the past been subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). I 
understand that this IVA has since been  discharged,  but his former  Insolvency Practitioner 
(IP) has said they still retain  an interest  in any PPI offer made to Mr N. In these 
circumstances, RBS will need  to determine whether any amount of the PPI offer it makes 
needs to be paid into Mr Ns IVA estate, or if this offer can be used  in its entirety  to reduce 
Mr Ns outstanding card account  balance.
Ref: DRN26751873my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back  any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2675187