K820x#14complaint
Ms O has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying  Silver 
packaged bank  account in March  2013. She says that she was told to upgrade her account  
to a Silver  account  to improve her credit  rating.
background
Ms Os account was opened as a fee-free account in January  2011. This was then upgraded 
to a fee-paying  Silver account  in March 2013 and remained as a Silver  account until it was 
downgraded back  to a fee-free  account  in April 2018.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think the Silver account had 
been mis-sold. Ms O disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the Silver  account was mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
When Ms Os account was upgraded to a fee-paying  Silver account,  shed held a fee-free 
account with Lloyds for a few years. So Im satisfied  that Ms O knew fee-free accounts were  
generally available and that she knew she didnt  have  to upgrade her account if she didnt 
want to.
In her response to the adjudicators assessment, Ms O disputes  how the Silver account 
upgrade took place.  Specifically, Ms O responded to the adjudicator to say that the account 
was not upgraded online  but was upgraded in branch by a cashier. 
However, Ms Os response  appears to contract her own recollections of the upgrade. For 
example, in the initial complaint email  she sent to Lloyds Ms O said she upgraded the 
account herself online, following a conversation  she had with a cashier in branch.  
Given how long ago the sale took place,  I think its understandable if Ms O cant  recall  the 
details of the Silver account upgrade. But Lloyds has provided evidence  to show that the sort 
code used for the Silver  account upgrade was one used for online banking applications. So I 
think that the upgrade did take place  online  and not in branch as Ms O now recalls  
although I accept  that its still possible that Ms O spoke to someone in branch first before 
she did so.
As the account  was upgraded online, I think the account was upgraded on a non-advised 
basis, even if it was the case that Lloyds gave Ms O some information about the Silver 
account. I say this as Ive not seen anything  to suggest that Lloyds reviewed her 
circumstances or gave her a personalised recommendation to upgrade her account. This 
means that Lloyds didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it did still have to give her 
important information  about the account  so she could decide for herself  whether to agree to 
the account.
Ref: DRN23331872Ms O says that she was told in branch  that the Silver account  would help improve her credit  
score. However, apart from Ms Os recollections of the conversation,  there  is no other record 
of what mayve been discussed.  
Conversely, I note that the account  provided travel  insurance, mobile phone  insurance and 
breakdown cover. And Ms O says she had a smart phone,  drove and occasionally  travelled.  
Furthermore, I can see she registered  a mobile  phone shortly after the upgrade  took place 
and I can see payments on her statements that show she travelled abroad a couple  of 
months after she upgraded  her account.
Therefore, when deciding what I think was more  likely to have happened,  I think its more 
likely that Ms O upgraded her account to a Silver account because  she was given 
information about the benefits and was attracted to them, rather  than because  she was mis-
led into agreeing  to it. I say this particularly as Ms O says she was told about the monthly  
cost and the insurance benefits that it came with and was clearly  able to benefit from at least 
some of the account  features.
I appreciate that Ms O may not have been presented with all of the important information  
about the account. But Ive not seen anything  about  her circumstances that makes  me think  
she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver account at the time, had she been 
given even more  information about  it. 
I also appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit  of hindsight, Ms O may now think  that the 
Silver account has been poor value for money  for her. However, that in itself does  not mean 
that the account was mis-sold  or that Lloyds did something wrong.
Therefore, on balance I dont think the Silver  account was mis-sold. Because of this, it would 
be inappropriate to require Lloyds to refund the account fees that Ms O has paid for the 
Silver account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2333187