K820x#14complaint
In 2002, Mr M took out a credit  card with Bank of Scotland plc. At the same time, Bank of 
Scotland sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. Mr M thinks  that Bank of 
Scotland mis-sold this policy to him and he wants it to refund him all the premiums  he paid 
for it, plus interest. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator didnt think that 
Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the policy to Mr M. Mr M disagreed and asked  for an 
ombudsman to review  his case, so it has come to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Ms case. Ive looked  into everything that Mr M and Bank of Scotland have 
sent us or told us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. I explain why below.
Mr M has told us that he applied for the credit  card and took the policy over the phone, but 
Bank of Scotland has said he applied for the card and the policy through the post. It has sent 
us a copy of the application form which Mr M filled in for his credit card.  The opening section 
of the form asked customers to post the form back to Bank of Scotland once they had 
completed it. So I think Bank of Scotland probably did sell the policy to Mr M through the 
post.
Mr M has told us that Bank  of Scotland added PPI to his credit card without his knowledge 
or consent, that he was unaware he had it and that he would not have taken it if Bank of 
Scotland had given  him a choice. But it seems to me that the application  form did give Mr M 
a choice. 
The form offered PPI to customers in a section called Credit  Care Repayment Cover, which 
was separate  from information about  the credit card itself. This section contained a brief 
description of the cover  and then asked customers who wanted  to buy it to sign underneath  
a statement  which said:
 Yes, I want you to arrange Credit Card  Repayment Cover..
Mr M has signed in the relevant place. If he had not wanted PPI, he could  have left this 
section blank. I fully accept that Mr M is doing  his best to remember  what happened when 
Bank of Scotland sold PPI to him, but I dont think it did so without his knowledge or consent. 
Mr M and Bank of Scotland have  both told us that Bank of Scotland didnt recommend PPI to 
him personally, but sold the policy to him on an information only basis. This meant  that 
Bank of Scotland had to tell Mr M about the policy fairly and clearly  so he could decide  if he 
wanted to buy it, but it didnt  have to check if the policy was right for Mr Ms circumstances. 
The form itself didnt  tell Mr M much about the policy and I dont know  what  other 
information, if any, Bank of Scotland gave him about it. So Ive looked into the policys  
features to see if there were any that would have stopped Mr M from buying it if Bank of 
Scotland had told him about  them. 
Ref: DRN20540162From what  Mr M has said about his circumstances in 2002, I think he was eligible for the 
policy and wasnt affected by its main limitations  and exclusions,  such as those which  may 
have affected  some customers who were in poor health. Mr M also seems to have been able 
to afford to pay the policys premiums. 
Mr M has told us that if he was off work ill, he would have received sick pay from his 
employer and I understand that if he had been made  redundant he would have been entitled  
to redundancy  pay. So he doesnt  think he needed PPI. But as Bank of Scotland  didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr M personally, it didnt have  to check these issues.  However,  I would 
like to reassure Mr M that if he had made a successful claim, the policy  would have paid out 
over and above any sick or redundancy pay he would have received. 
Overall, I accept  that Bank of Scotland may not have explained everything about  the policy 
to Mr M as clearly as it should have done.  But, as Im satisfied that Mr M was eligible for the 
policy, that he wasnt affected by its main  exclusions  and limitations and that he could afford 
it, I dont  think clearer  information would have stopped him from buying it. So I dont  think  
that Bank  of Scotland mis-sold PPI to Mr M. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about  Bank  of 
Scotland plc. Im not going to tell it to give him any money back.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2054016