K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly  treated  damage at her property as 
two separate claims on her buildings insurance  policy.
background
Mrs Ws buildings insurance is underwritten by SOL and its responsible for complaints so Ill 
refer to it throughout. Mrs W has also made a separate  complaint  about how her subsidence  
claims have been  handled. This complaint focuses solely on whether it was reasonable for 
SOL to treat the subsidence as two claims rather than one.
While a tradesman was undertaking some work on Mrs Ws property, he noticed and 
highlighted an external area of the property  which  he had concerns about. She reported this 
damage to SOL in July 2016, to make a claim under her buildings  insurance policy. During  
discussions she explained shed first noticed  the damage some  twelve  months before but 
had thought no more about  it.
SOL agreed to investigate the damage  and an engineers report was produced in in 
October 2016. This suggested movement around the annex and its junction with the rest of 
the house was to blame. It suggested the likely cause was a lime tree three metres from the 
left elevation of the house. No further movement to the rest of the house  was identified.  The 
engineer suggested further investigations and a period of monitoring which  SOL agreed to. 
Some twelve months later, in July 2017  movement  at the rear of the property was identified. 
Again, Mrs W reported this to SOL to make a claim under her buildings  insurance policy.  It 
arranged an inspection of the rear of the property and the engineer suggested the movement  
was due to a secondary issue   separate from the lime tree at the front of property. He 
thought the likely cause was a was a number of trees within  the vicinity of the rear of the 
property. A period  of monitoring was required to further assess  this new situation.
SOL treated  the two incidents as separate claims but Mrs W disagreed,  saying it should  treat 
them as one. Mrs W remained unhappy and brought  her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator considered  the evidence but didnt think SOL had done anything wrong in 
treating the two incidences as separate claims.
Mrs W remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive decided I wont  
be upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I realise  shes likely to be disappointed by this so Ill explain  
my reasoning.
Ive noted Mrs W was aware of a potential problem some time in 2015 but didnt report  it to 
SOL at the time. Eventually,  she did in July 2016  and SOL arranged an inspection by a 
structural engineer. This report confirmed  there  was movement within  the newer section of 
the property where  it joined the original structure.  It said that an external  influence had 
caused the piled foundation to settle or subside.  
Ref: DRN21694592The report  concluded  that a lime tree to the left elevation of the house,  in close proximity to 
the area, was having a negative effect  on the underlying  soil conditions and the load bearing 
capacity of the piles. I note, no further  movement to the rest of the house was identified. The 
report recommended  further investigation  and ongoing monitoring.  I think  it was reasonable 
SOL treated  this as the first incidence of possible subsidence.  
Twelve months later, in August 2017  Mrs W told SOL about some new damage, this time to 
the rear, right hand side aspect of the property. An engineer considered the new damage 
and concluded  a number of trees to the right of the building had led to this. 
While the experts may not agree on the exact  specifics, it seems to me theres broad 
agreement amongst them that vegetation  including  trees and hedges  in the two different 
locations of damage  have  been the cause of the movement  of the house.  
So, in summary,  the two incidences of damage were claimed  for approximately  a year apart  
but as much as two years from when the first damage was seen  by Mrs W. The damage was 
to different  parts of the house   the first to the front and the second to the rear, right hand 
side. And considering  the various  reports produced, it seems  to me more  likely than not the 
causes of the damage were different trees in the proximity  of the different areas  of damage.
And for those reasons  I think  it was reasonable SOL treated the two incidences  of damage 
as separate claims.
Mrs Ws policy says an excess of £1,000 is payable in the event of a subsidence claim. And 
as Ive decided  it was fair for SOL to treat the two incidences as separate claims, it follows  
that it would  be fair to charge an excess for each of them. So, I wont be asking SOL to 
refund any excess thats been charged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2169459