K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
In 2004 Mr and Mrs N talked to Santander about moving their existing mortgage to 
Santander. Although  they eventually didnt do that, they did buy a PPI policy from Santander.  
The policy covered both Mr and Mrs N for unemployment only and would  have provided  a 
monthly benefit of £828. 
In 2008 Mr N made a successful claim when he became unemployed  Santander says he 
received about  £1,654 in total. Shortly after that he became  self-employed.  He was taken off 
the policy in 2012.
Mrs N remains  covered  by the PPI. Shes  both employed in a job and also a director of her 
husbands business.
Mr and Mrs N complained  to Santander that the policy was mis-sold as no-one ever 
explained the impact  of being self-employed on their ability  to claim. Mrs N says shes  tried 
to get Santander to explain  if she could  make a claim given her particular  circumstances but 
says Santander  isnt answering her questions.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint,  and said that queries  about  whether Mrs N 
could claim should  be made direct  to the insurer. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ns case. I have also taken account  of the 
law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold. 
Id like to explain Santanders  responsibilities  in the circumstances  surrounding this 
complaint. Santander  sold Mr and Mrs N the PPI, and is responsible for anything  it did wrong 
at the time  so thats in 2004. Thats what this decision is about.
After the sale, if Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances changed it was up to them  to tell their insurer 
about this  and check f the policy was still suitable  for them.
The main  questions I need to consider about  the sale are:
-If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ns needs?
-Did Santander give Mr and Mrs N the information they needed to decide  whether to take 
out the policy?
Ref: DRN28910072If there were shortcomings  in the way Santander  sold the policy,  I need  to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs N are worse  off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs N during a meeting with an adviser  from Santander, who 
was recommending a mortgage and insurance products. Mr and Mrs N say they decided 
against taking  the mortgage, but bought the PPI as it covered them whoever provided their 
mortgage.  
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs N and Santander when 
they were discussing  the mortgage and PPI. I can see the cover was tailored to suit their 
circumstances  they didnt, for example, buy any accident or sickness cover. Mr and Mrs N 
say Santander  didnt tell them the policy might not cover them  if they were self-employed. 
But both Mr and Mrs N were in jobs when  they bought the PPI  and there doesnt seem  to 
be any indication that this was likely to change in the short term. So I cant say Id expect 
Santander to explain that particular point  at the time the PPI was sold.
Overall it seems that Mr and Mrs N were making  choices about  the insurance  they wanted.  
And  given they already  had a mortgage  elsewhere, which  they kept, theres  no suggestion 
they thought they had to buy it in order  to borrow. 
I am also satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances  and I say this 
because:
-Both Mr and Mrs N were eligible for the policy given  their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions.
-The policy was split in order to cover both Mr and Mrs N, and appears  to have been 
done so roughly in line with their respective earnings at the time. That seems  appropriate 
to me. 
-Both Mr and Mrs N say they would have  received some work-related benefits if either of 
them couldnt work due to illness or accident. But the policy  only covered them  for 
unemployment, so that doesnt affect my decision. 
-At the time, Mr and Mrs N werent affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys 
main benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed people.  I accept that their 
circumstances have  now changed, but responsibility for checking  if the policy is still 
suitable rests with them, not Santander. As they could have benefited  from the full extent 
of the cover I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs N needed better  advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations. 
-I dont know exactly when Mr and Mrs N were told the cost of the PPI. Its likely it was in 
the meeting. But  even if Mr and Mrs N didnt know the exact amount of the premium 
when they bought  the policy  I think they might have known approximately  what  it was. 
Ultimately, I think  Mr and Mrs N were aware they had to pay something for the policy  and 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was insufficient  to 
meet their total monthly mortgage  repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr and Mrs N about the PPI wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. But they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have  
wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs N werent  affected  by any of the 
Ref: DRN28910073exclusions or limitations at the time and the policy seems to have been affordable, I think  it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs N would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided  overall,  I think they would still have taken  out the policy.
I appreciate Mrs N has struggled to get a definitive  answer as to whether she could claim 
now she is both employed and self-employed. But I think the responsibility for answering this 
question lies with the company providing the insurance (the underwriter).  That isnt 
Santander. If Mr and Mrs N continue to have difficulties getting  their questions answered  
they could make a complaint to the underwriter about this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
let me know  whether they accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2891007