K821x#15complaint
Ms G is unhappy about the customer service received from her broker Residents  Insurance  
Services Limited (RISL) under her home insurance policy.
background
Ms G contacted RISL to make a claim. She found that despite sending  several  emails  and 
making numerous attempts to call she wasnt able to make contact. Ms G attempted  to talk 
directly with her insurers who said it had no record of a policy for Ms G. To try and resolve  
issues Ms G attempted to take out a policy elsewhere but as she had an outstanding claim 
most insurers she checked with didnt want to offer a policy. Unhappy with the lack of 
customer service  from RISL Ms G brought her complaint to this service.
Once the complaint came  here RISL did eventually agree to deal with the claim. It also 
offered to send Ms G a written apology,  to email all its customers  to ensure they were aware 
of its new address and contact details, and offered Ms G £100  as compensation for the poor 
customer service  she had suffered.  Ms G remained unhappy as RISL only did this after 
shed involved this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She felt the compensation  offered was too low based 
on the impact on Ms G. Our investigator  accepted the problems Ms G encountered  getting in 
contact with RISL, getting responses  from it and getting her claim dealt with. Our investigator 
said in view of the distress and inconvenience  £200 compensation would be a fair offer.  
Ms G and RISL didnt  accept this and the complaint was passed  on to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating it mustve  been  for Ms G not to be able to get in contact 
easily with RISL. Claims are stressful enough without any extra issues arising.  I also take on 
board Ms Gs point  that it was only when she came  to this service that RISL  made her an 
offer to put the matter  right. I think this is a fair point RISL couldve acted more quickly to 
deal with the issues once it knew that Ms G was unhappy.
In terms of RISL agreeing to update  all of its customers I wont  make  any comment on this. 
RISL as part of its offer to Ms G said it would email its contact details out to all customers. If 
Ms G is still unhappy about this particular point our investigator has previously confirmed 
Ms G can take this up with the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority.
RISL did attempt to put the matter  right when it offered  to email all customers, write to Ms G 
to apologise, and pay £100 compensation. I do agree  that it should write  to Ms G to 
apologise. But I do think it hasnt  quite picked up on how upset  Ms G was by the whole 
incident. Its clear that she was unhappy from the outset  at the way RISL went about dealing  
with her claim and the problems she faced with simple tasks  like getting in contact. Its clear  
that Ms G found the whole experience stressful. So I think  the £200  compensation 
suggested by our investigator  is a much fairer outcome considering  Ms Gs distress  and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN26870712my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Residents  Insurance  Services Limited to:
send Ms G a letter of apology;
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Residents Insurance Service Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Ms G accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2687071