K820x#14Complaint
Mr M is seeking  to recover £20,000  from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax),  which
was stolen from his savings account as a result of a third-party scam.
Halifax says it is not liable for the loss because  Mr M unwittingly authorised  the payment 
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from
the payee bank.
My provisional decision 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on the complaint on 
6 October 2020. I provide a copy of my findings  from that decision below:
1.It is common ground that Mr M authorised the scam payment of £20,000. He was 
duped by the scammers into instructing  his branch to transfer that sum for an 
investment. They deceived him over the phone  into thinking the investment was 
legitimate, telling him hed receive 12% return per annum  (a guaranteed £200 a 
month) and his original  capital  would be protected. They  used the name  of a 
genuine regulated business  and provided him with authentic literature, so Mr M 
was satisfied he was dealing with a legitimate firm.
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr M was the victim  
of a sophisticated scam.  He used his security  credentials to request the payment. 
So, although  he was scammed,  under  the Payment Services Regulations 2017, 
Mr M is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant 
codes of practice and what  I consider to have  been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This 
is particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, which  banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. For branch transactions like this, 
those steps may include following the Banking Protocol where  appropriate.
4.Having reviewed Mr Ms saving account  statements  for the year prior to the 
payment, I think the £20,000 payment was unusual. Mr M doesnt  make regular 
large transfers out of his savings account to new payees. Any payments out of 
the account tended  to be for much less than £20,000, and mostly to another  
account in Mr Ms name.  Halifax has acknowledged that given the large amount 
of the transaction, a High Value Checklist wouldve needed to be completed 
before the payment could be processed.  This checklist encourages branch  staff 
to question the purpose of the transaction and check whether it is unusual, or out 
of character, for the account and the customer.
5.Its unclear what questions were asked  to Mr M about the payment. Mr M says he
Ref: DRN24400322doesnt recall being  asked  many  questions at all, but does say he was asked 
what the transaction was for and showed  the staff the brochure  hed been  sent by 
the scammers. Halifax isnt able to obtain  any statements from its staff who dealt 
with Mr M that day. Instead, Halifax has said the High Value Checklist wouldve 
been completed and the manager  mustve  been satisfied enough to let the 
payment proceed.
6.But the evidence  before us indicates  that the staff did not ask Mr M any 
appropriate follow-up  or probing questions when he explained the transfer was 
for an investment.  In my judgment, they could and should have done more.  
Particularly given the requirements of the Banking Protocol, which  encourages 
staff to ask probing questions and to get into the detail in order to test the 
purpose of the payment. Had they done so, Im persuaded they wouldve been 
able to detect  that Mr M was being scammed.
7.Had Halifax asked further  questions,  it seems  more than likely Mr M wouldve  
revealed details  of the investment.  We know that the scammers had cloned  a 
genuine company and that the regulator  didnt post a notice of this until February  
2018. So, Im satisfied on the face of it this wouldnt have thrown up any red 
flags. However, it is the details of the investment that I believe shouldve 
indicated to Halifax that something  wasnt quite  right. Mr M has said he was 
promised a 12% return across the year, with a guaranteed £200 each month and 
his capital would be fully protected. Whilst I dont expect branch staff to have in 
depth investment  knowledge, I would expect a branch  manager  to have enough
banking knowledge  to understand that this seemed too good  to be true.
8.Investment scams are well known, especially ones  where  the scam companies 
use cloned details  of a legitimate business. With this in mind,  upon hearing the 
details of the investment, I wouldve expected Halifax to probe further,  caution  Mr 
M to the risks and suggest he check in with the regulator before proceeding. It 
seems likely, given this was all of Mr Ms remaining savings and he intended to 
treat the proceeds as his pension, that this wouldve made him think twice  before 
proceeding. Had he checked  with the regulator,  I believe it wouldve come to light 
that the company he was dealing with wasnt  the company registered with the 
regulator. The genuine company didnt deal in financial products at all and the 
regulator wouldve  been able to tell Mr M this and break the spell.
9.My conclusions  about what is likely to have happened if Halifax had asked 
probing questions  are reinforced by the fact that Mr M had done some research 
on the company  beforehand, including checking  Companies House. This clearly 
shows he was trying to verify  the validity of the company. So had Halifax, his 
bank and trusted financial institution, warned him that the investment didnt  sound  
plausible and he could  be dealing with a cloned  company (and therefore  his 
Companies House  check wouldnt  be valid), Im persuaded Mr M wouldve 
wanted to go away and do further checks.
10.In light of my conclusions above, its not necessary in this case  to consider 
whether the bank  also exercised  enough care and urgency  in trying to recover 
the stolen funds from the payee  bank, before they were  irretrievably  removed by 
the scammers. But for completeness,  I will say that, whilst there was a little delay 
by Halifax at this stage, it would have made no difference because the receiving 
banks records show that the scammers  withdrew  all the money by the end of 
December 2017 - before Mr M had realised  hed been scammed and reported 
this to Halifax.
11.I have  also considered whether  Mr M should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. However, its clear that up to and including  the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not 
Ref: DRN24400323appreciate that he wasnt dealing  with a genuine  company.  He had done some 
research and received convincing  paperwork that satisfied him he was dealing 
with a genuine and regulated business.  Unlike Halifax, he wasnt aware 
companies could  be cloned or this was a common scam. Im therefore satisfied 
there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. Mr M was simply the 
unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster.
12.In the circumstances,  Im satisfied Halifax should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse 
Mr M for the loss he suffered without  any reduction, together  with interest to 
compensate him for being deprived  of the money he lost. Im satisfied that had 
the fraudster not taken the money  from Mr M, it would have remained in his 
savings account,  so interest should  be at that rate.
13.I also think it is appropriate to make  an award of £300 for the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr M has suffered.  Hes understandably found things difficult 
since the scam. It impacted his relationship and job. In reaching that conclusion  
Im mindful that his loss was ultimately caused  by the callous act of a fraudster 
and it was an authorised transaction,  but Halifax could ultimately have prevented  
the payments.
 
So subject to any further representations from Mr M or Halifax,  I was minded to uphold  the 
complaint.
Mr M responded to the provisional decision agreeing with the outcome reached. He re-
emphasised that had Halifax warned him about  the payment before he made  it, he wouldve 
listened to them. He explained  he wasnt an experienced investor.  
Halifax disagreed  with the provisional  decision. It said our service has concluded that the 
branch staff didnt ask any appropriate follow up or probing questions  of Mr M when he was 
in branch that day. However,  it argues there  is nothing to indicate a lack of questioning, 
rather it is not in a position  to provide a full account  of what was discussed that day. 
Halifax acknowledged that the £20,000 payment was out of character for Mr Ms savings 
account. However, it pointed to two large payments Mr M had made from his current  
account. These were  made to a different  investment firm in March and April 2017,  totalling 
£45,000. Halifax says these are relevant as it shows Mr M wouldve been  more acquainted 
with his investment  choices than that of the branch staff he spoke with. Halifax  pointed  out 
that the branch staff arent  trained to provide advice and guidance on investments. 
Therefore, due to his recent investment history and him having conducted his own risk 
assessment of the investment,  Halifax  doesnt believe Mr M wouldve been swayed by any 
additional questioning and as a result, the spell couldnt have been broken. 
I will now go onto to consider Halifaxs arguments in response to my provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision  on this complaint remains unchanged. I will explain why. 
While I accept that Mr M had made  an investment in the year prior to the £20,000 scam 
payment, I dont believe this indicates  he is an experienced  investor;  not to the level where  I 
Ref: DRN24400324believe he wouldve ignored any additional questioning or warnings  from Halifax.  Mr M has 
explained as much. He says the first company was recommended to him by a friend, 
whereas the scam company was not. He had tried to do his own research  but hadnt 
checked the regulators website. I think an experienced investor wouldve thought to do this. 
Mr M has said he doesnt recall any questions being asked of him beyond  what the payment 
was for and who it was going to. And in the absence  of any evidence from Halifax,  I believe 
its fair to reach the conclusion that on balance, it is unlikely in-depth questions  were asked.  
Had they been, I think the scam  wouldve come to light. 
It is for Halifax  staff to reassure themselves a customer isnt about to fall victim  of a scam. 
So, regardless of their investment knowledge, its for them to conduct any checks or ask any 
relevant questions, to get to this conclusion. In this case, a simple check of the company on 
the regulators website  wouldve  shown it wasnt regulated. And this, along with the terms of 
the investment,  wouldve  been enough to indicate  the strong possibility it was a scam. 
Ive seen nothing  that persuades me Mr M wouldnt have  heeded  a warning of this nature. 
Mr M wasnt an experienced investor. Although hed attempted to do his own research, this 
was money intended  to be his pension, and so had his bank - the experts in spotting and 
preventing scams - warned him, Im persuaded it wouldve broken the spell.  
It follows that Im still satisfied Halifax couldve prevented Mr Ms loss. 
My final decision  
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as 
Halifax)  and require  the bank to:
Pay Mr M £20,000; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the 
date of refund.
Pay Mr M £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2440032