K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont  pay for repairs to his car.
background
Mr B has breakdown repair cover with Acromas as part of his roadside assistance  policy. 
And in October  2018, Acromas paid to replace the radiator in Mr Bs car after it broke down.
Following the repair,  Mr B says he had to regularly top up his car with water following  the 
repair. And because  of this he took it to the garage that replaced his radiator on three  
occasions. However, they were unable to diagnose  a fault.
In March 2019, Mr B contacted Acromas to make a claim for repairs after seeing fluids  had 
leaked from his car. Acromas told Mr B his claim wouldnt be covered because  his car had 
already been seen  by a mechanic. They also said he hadnt suffered a sudden breakdown 
because hed been able to drive  his car for several  months before notifying  them  of the 
problem. Mr B was unhappy with this response, so raised a complaint.
After reviewing Mr Bs claim and complaint, Acromas issued their final response. In this, they 
explained Mr Bs claim wasnt covered because he had taken his car to a garage to before 
contacting them. And that was excluded under the policy.  Mr B remained unhappy,  so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld.  He explained that as Mr B 
had been driving his car for around five months before he contacted Acromas, the necessary 
repairs were excluded under Mr Bs policy. Our investigator was also satisfied the policy  
required Mr B to contact Acromas before taking his car to a garage. And as Mr B didnt do 
that, he didnt  think Acromas acted unfairly  by not settling  his claim.
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. Mr B said he had followed guidance from his roadside  
assistance companys  website. And this said customers  should  take their vehicle back to the 
repairing garage if they continue to have  problems after a repair.  Mr B also maintained the 
repairs were linked to his October 2018  breakdown, so the new repairs  shouldnt  be 
considered as a second claim.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his opinion. So, Mr Bs case  was passed to me 
to investigate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
complaint. I know this isnt the outcome he hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons below.
Ref: DRN22622082Mr Bs policy  terms and conditions set out the circumstances in which  claims will be settled  
under the breakdown repair cover. And under  the section How to make  a claim Mr Bs 
policy says the breakdown  repair  cover  applies If you breakdown and we cant fix your 
vehicle at the roadside. And Mr Bs policy goes on to define a breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected  event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and
b) which has been attended  by the AA under  Your AA membership; and
c) that has prevented  the Nominated  Vehicle from starting or continuing  its journey safely; 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement  of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be   
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start)  cover  is held under Your AA membership, 
commenced.
 
Mr Bs testimony confirms that he was having problems with his car for several months 
before he contacted Acromas to make  a claim.  So, given the wording above, I cant fairly say 
his car experienced a sudden and unexpected  fault. I appreciate Mr B says he stopped 
driving his car for a period of time, and that he contacted Acromas  when  he noticed fluids 
had leaked from his car. But I cant  say this was wholly  unexpected  given  that Mr B has said 
he was frequently  having to top his car with water to ensure  it was safe to drive. And it was 
this same reason  that caused him to take his car to a mechanic three times over the five-
month period.
Mr Bs policy  also has general exclusions. And Acromas has said the circumstances 
surrounding Mr Bs claim fall under two of them. Firstly, the policy  doesnt cover  faults the 
policyholder was aware of before the start of the journey on which  the Breakdown 
occurred. As mentioned above,  Mr B has said his car was having problems for several 
months following  the original repair. So, I agree, Mr B ought  to have been aware there  was a 
problem with his car before he decided to contact Acromas and make  a claim in March  2019. 
And its for this reason  I consider this general exclusion was correctly  applied to his claim.
The policy also excludes  claims where  a policyholder has referred the failure to a garage 
before calling their roadside assistance provider.  Theres no dispute that Mr B took his car to 
a mechanic before contacting Acromas. The policy clearly explains this isnt allowed if a 
policyholder wants  to make a claim.  So, Im satisfied the circumstances of Mr Bs claim also 
fall under this exclusion.
Mr B sent us an article  written by the business  that provides his roadside assistance policy.  
This advises  customers to take their car back to the repairing garage if theyre not happy 
with the repairs.  And Mr B says he was following this advice when he took his car back  to 
the repairing  garage. Ive taken on board what Mr B has said about  this. However, Ive read 
and located this article  on the website of his roadside assistance provider. And there is 
nothing in this article that says it applies to circumstances where repairs were arranged  by 
an insurer. This article is simply giving general  advice  to motorists, and I consider that point 
is clear in the article  and from where  the article is located on the website. So, I cant  fairly 
say Acromas should cover Mr Bs claim due to his mistake after finding and reading this 
article.
Ref: DRN22622083Mr B has said Acromas  have incorrectly treated the March 2019 events as a second a claim. 
He feels the repairs  should be covered under the claim he made in October 2018. Ive seen 
the engineers  report Mr B has provided.  And Ive noted its contents about the fault with his 
car. But I cant ignore  the fact Mr B was able to drive  his car for a number of months  after the 
first repair.  Given  the time that passed between Mr Bs first and second claim, I dont think 
Acromas has acted  unreasonably by considering  them  separately.
As mentioned above, Im not persuaded the circumstances surrounding Mr Bs claim are 
covered under his policy. And its for this reason I wont be asking Acromas  to cover Mr Bs 
claim or do anything to put things right.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2262208