K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC took around two years to tell him it had 
overcharged interest on a loan hed had. 
Mr M also complains  about the way Tesco handled  his complaint. 
background
Mr M had a loan with Tesco and shouldve received a lower  interest  rate because he had a 
Clubcard. But Tesco didnt apply the discount while Mr M was repaying  the loan. 
Around two years after the loan agreement ended Tesco contacted  Mr M and sent him a 
cheque for the additional  interest hed paid along with 8% interest.  
Mr M contacted Tesco and complained. When he called for an update  Mr M found his case 
hadnt been allocated yet. Mr M went on to raise his concerns with Tescos  Chief  Executive 
Officer but later received  a text message from the customer relations department. Mr M says 
that Tesco handled his complaint poorly  and has asked  for compensation for the service he 
received. 
Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and an investigator looked  at what  had happened. 
They thought Tesco had dealt with the complaint fairly and its offer to refund interest  to Mr M 
was reasonable.  
The investigator also explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service  doesnt have 
jurisdiction to look at cases about how a business dealt with a complaint. 
Mr M remains unhappy that it took Tesco  two years to realise hed been  overcharged  and 
asked for his case to be appealed. As a result, Mr Ms complaints  been  passed to me to 
make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr Ms complaint falls broadly into two 
parts. The interest  hes been charged and the way his complaint was handled  by Tesco. Im 
going to begin with Tescos complaint handling.  
I can see the investigators already explained that the Financial Ombudsman Service is 
limited in what complaints  it can consider. For us to consider a complaint it has to be about a 
regulated activity or something thats ancillary to a regulated activity.  
The rules  setting out what complaints this service can deal with are set by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints handbook. The rules 
explain what  regulated  activities  can be considered  by this service. Im satisfied that the way 
a business has handled a complaint isnt a regulated  activity as defined  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Ive thought carefully about whether dealing with Mr Ms complaint was linked closely  
enough with the interest  refund for me to consider it ancillary to a regulated activity. But Im 
not persuaded that it is. The way Mr Ms complaint was investigated is separate from the key 
Ref: DRN28417802issue hes complained  about  the additional interest  hes paid and the length of time it took 
Tesco to find it had made an error. As a result I agree with the investigators view that this 
service doesnt have the jurisdiction to consider this part of Mr Ms complaint. 
I can look at the way interest was applied to Mr Ms loan account and the length of time its 
taken Tesco to realise there was a problem. Tescos  explained that it discovered the error as 
part of a larger audit  it completed and wrote  to Mr M as quickly as possible to arrange a 
refund. Whilst I agree  that it wouldve been better  for Tesco to have realised its mistake 
sooner, or made no mistake at all, Im satisfied  its explained why the error wasnt  discovered 
sooner.
Tesco refunded  the additional  interest  Mr M paid and added 8% interest from the date each 
payment was made. As a result,  Mr M received  further interest to reflect  hed been 
overcharged when  Tesco refunded the additional  interest hed paid and Im satisfied  that 
puts him back into a fair position. 
Ive considered whether it would be fair for Tesco to have  paid additional  compensation for 
the trouble and upset its error  has caused  Mr M. But I have to take into account that the error 
meant Mr Ms payments  were around £15 a month too high which,  when compared to his full 
monthly payment  of £341.24, was modest. In addition, the loan was only open  for around a 
year so the number of payments Mr M made  on the incorrect  interest  rate was limited.  
From what  Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair to tell Tesco to pay Mr M further 
compensation in addition  to the refund its already paid. As Ive explained above,  this service 
doesnt have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ms concerns about how his complaint was handled.  
And Im satisfied Tescos  interest refund is fair in the circumstances of Mr Ms complaint  so 
Im not asking it to do anything further.  
my final decision
My decision  is that the Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider 
Mr Ms concerns about complaint handling  and that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has paid 
fair compensation in relation to the additional  interest charged.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 February  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2841780