K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that OneSavings Bank Plc (which Ill call OSB) didnt treat him fairly when it 
defaulted two loans.  
background
Mr G had two loans  with OSB (which was then Kent Reliance). He had been on a repayment 
plan for some time,  paying a nominal amount each month. OSB has explained  that In 
December 2016  the loans  (along with many  others  in Kent Reliances books) were assigned  
to Cabot Financial (Europe) Limited  and defaults applied. It says too that in November 2017  
it asked Cabot to remove the defaults.  It seems that Cabot  didnt  do so immediately.
Mr G complained. OSB accepted that it would have  been more appropriate to have  
registered the defaults in 2013, rather than 2016;  the later registration meant that the default 
would remain on Mr Gs record for longer. It offered Mr G £50 in recognition of that and of 
the fact that OSB hadnt returned  Mr Gs call when it said it would. But, it said, it wasnt in a 
position to remove  the defaults itself; it could only ask Cabot to do so.
Mr G didnt accept OSBs  offer and referred the matter to this service. Our investigator 
suggested that OSB  increase its offer to £150. OSB replied to say that all matters relating to 
loans which  had been assigned to Cabot  should  be addressed to Cabot; it wouldnt increase 
its offer. Our investigator told Mr G what OSB had said, but was unable  to resolve the 
complaint. It was therefore  referred  to me and I issued a provisional decision.  Neither  party 
had anything further to add, so I havent changed  my provisional  findings  and which I shall 
set out below as my final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
OSBs argument  is, in essence,  that it has an agreement with Cabot which  says that Cabot 
will deal with matters such as this one. Its not therefore for this service to investigate Mr Gs 
complaint about  it; and it says that Mr G has in any event complained about Cabot. 
OSB hasnt provided a copy  of its agreement with Cabot, but Ive no reason to think  it 
doesnt include the provisions its described. But that agreement  is one between OSB and 
Cabot; it doesnt  bind Mr G and nor  as far as Im aware  has OSB come to any 
arrangement with the Financial Ombudsman Service (which  in any event  would require the 
approval of the regulator) which would prevent us from looking at Mr Gs complaint. And if 
OSB has a form of indemnity from Cabot, that is  at least based on the information I have at 
present  a matter  between them. 
I have therefore  considered  OSBs actions here. Having  done so, however, I take the view 
that the offer of £50 it made before this case was referred to this service was fair. 
OSB was within its rights to assign Mr Gs loans to Cabot.  That was a commercial decision 
for it to take, and it was then for Cabot to decide whether or not to allow payment plans such  
as Mr Gs to continue. I accept OSBs  argument  that it had little influence  over Cabot once 
the loans had been assigned.
Ref: DRN22709742OSB accepted that it should have defaulted  the loans earlier than it did. Had it done so, the 
defaults would have been removed sooner.  But its also fair to say that there may have been 
adverse consequences for Mr G as well. For example, its unlikely he would have been able 
to continue with the repayment plan for as long as he did, and might have been asked for 
different proposals  to repay what he owed. 
For these reasons, I dont  accept OSBs argument  that this service  shouldnt consider Mr Gs 
complaint. But I do believe that its offer of £50 is sufficient  to resolve the matter.  I therefore 
simply leave it to him to decide whether, on reflection, he wishes to accept it. In reaching  that 
conclusion, I note as well that Mr G has complained  to Cabot and received  compensation 
from it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require OneSavings Bank Plc to do anything  further  to resolve  
Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr G to accept  or reject my decision before  28 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2270974