K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains on behalf  of Mr G that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt set up a direct 
debit to make his monthly credit card payment. For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to 
Mr G as though he complained directly. 
background
Mr G has a credit card and a current account with HSBC. He asked HSBC  to set up a direct 
debit from his current account to make  his monthly repayments to his credit card - but this 
hasnt happened.
HSBC tried to arrange the direct debit multiple times and sent Mr G letters telling him it was 
in place. But when  the payment was due, the direct debit failed which  meant the repayment 
wasnt made towards Mr Gs credit card. Mr G would then receive a letter  from HSBC  
explaining this was because he cancelled the direct debit and had to arrange other means of 
payment.
HSBC applied charges to the credit card for the direct debit failing, which  Mr G says is unfair. 
Hes worried  his credit  file has been  negatively impacted as a result.  A small  amount  of 
interest was applied for a purchase  made on the card, which  Mr G is also unhappy about as 
he has said that it shouldnt apply. Overall, Mr G is unhappy that the direct debit isnt in place 
despite it being a number  of months now since he originally asked for it to be. And how 
HSBC have explained why this is. So he raised  a complaint. 
HSBC responded  and said a problem with the direct debit meant it wasnt  working  as it 
should be. It said it was trying to fix this and offered to make  the repayments  from Mr Gs 
current account for him until the problem was resolved. HSBC said the interest was applied  
for a purchase that Mr G made,  but agreed to refund the charges relating to the direct  debits  
failing. It offered him £75 compensation to reflect the inconvenience caused. And then when 
the problem continued, it increased  this to a total of £275. Finally, HSBC  assured Mr G that 
his credit file wont show  any missed payments.
Our investigator looked into it and found  that HSBC was trying to resolve the problem and 
thought the compensation  it had offered  was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr G disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I can appreciate Mr Gs frustration. He should be able to make his payments through  a direct 
debit as he wants to and at times HSBC has said he was to blame  for this not happening - 
when actually its not in dispute that he didnt cancel  the direct debit himself. A direct debit is 
generally a simple instruction for a bank to put in place. So I understand why Mr G thinks  
that HSBC ought  to have arranged one for him by now.
I realise that Mr G may think  that his complaint isnt resolved  until the direct debit is in place. 
But, as our investigator rightly pointed  out, as a service were unable  to make HSBC  fix an 
issue such as this by a certain date - if this isnt physically  possible. As the problem is still 
Ref: DRN24676282ongoing, I must decide what  HSBC has been doing to try and put things right,  and how best 
to compensate Mr G for the delays and inconvenience that has been caused and will 
continue to be caused.
Its clear that Mr G has spent time trying to get to the bottom  of the issue by speaking  to 
HSBC. Including visiting and speaking to his local branch to make  sure that his repayments 
were made each month.  For a simple request such as arranging  a direct debit, I find this has 
caused Mr G unnecessary inconvenience and worry.  
credit file, interest and charges
HSBC says Mr Gs credit  file hasnt been adversely  impacted  by its failure  to set up the 
direct debit. And its refunded the charges  that it applied in relation to this. This is fair, 
because it wasnt Mr Gs fault that the direct debit didnt work as it should  have. So I dont 
find that HSBC need  to change anything in this sense. 
HSBC applied interest when I cant see that any should have been applied. Mr G made a 
purchase in May 2018 and paid it off in full within the same  month.  So he shouldnt  be 
charged any interest for this purchase. This is the only purchase Mr G made  on the credit 
card and it was paid off before he made the balance transfer. The balance transfer is on a 
zero percent  interest  rate - so either way no interest should apply. However, the interest  
equated to less than a pound. And in the circumstances, I find the £275  that HSBC  has 
awarded to be enough  to compensate Mr G for this loss.  
what HSBC has been doing to resolve the problem
Problems do occur at times, but nonetheless HSBC ought to try and resolve  these as soon 
as reasonably possible. HSBC has evidenced that the issue is currently  being  investigated  
by an area that should be able to put it right. Its acknowledged that the problem ought  to 
have been fixed  by now and throughout our investigation  has been monitoring and providing 
updates on the situation. I understand that progress  is being made towards  a permanent 
solution. For this reason,  Im satisfied that HSBC has made a reasonable attempt to resolve 
the problem. And its assured Mr G that it will continue to try to get the direct debit working 
as soon as possible.
In the meantime, HSBC  has provided Mr G with a reasonable alternative  by agreeing to 
make payments on his behalf from his current account to the credit card. This saves Mr G 
having to arrange other  means  of payment, similar to a direct  debit.  I appreciate Mr G may 
worry that payments  might not be made. But if there  are any problems with this arrangement  
in the future, Mr G can raise this separate to this complaint. 
Considering the impact  on Mr G and the length  of time this situation has been  ongoing  for, I 
find £275 reasonable and in line with what I wouldve  awarded  in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019
Ref: DRN24676283Matthew Belcher
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2467628