K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold him payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr O took out PPI when he applied for a credit card by postal application. The policy  
was designed  to protect Mr Os card payments in the event he couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost 78 pence for every  £100 Mr O owed on the card.  And it would pay a monthly  
benefit of 10% of what was owed for up to 12 months.
At the time Mr O says he was entitled to sick pay  although he cant remember  for how 
long. And says his partner  wouldve  helped  him out. He also told us he was in good health at 
the time.
BoS records show Mr Os credit card account was active from 1999 to 2014.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said the evidence  indicated that Mr O 
selected PPI on his application,  so he chose to take it out. And there  was nothing to suggest  
it was mis-sold. They went on to say that the payment  BoS made in relation to high 
commission and profit share was fair in the circumstances.
Mr O disagrees,  so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr O didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Ive seen a copy  of Mr Os credit card application,  which he completed and sent back 
to BoS. And I can see here that in a separate section for PPI Mr O was asked to sign 
one of two equally  prominent boxes  Yes  to take out PPI or No to decline it. Mr O 
signed the Yes box.
The application didnt  say or imply PPI had to be taken out. So overall Im satisfied  
Mr L was made aware PPI was optional and that he chose to take it out.
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mr O  this was a postal sale without any BoS staff 
member interaction - so it didnt  have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr O got the information he needed  to decide if it was right for him. 
Ref: DRN24602672Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  for example 
those relating to unusual  employment circumstances or existing medical conditions - 
so it would have  been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think  better  information about the PPI would  have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because : 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr O has told us  including  what he said in his PPI 
questionnaire. But these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr O hasnt lost out to the extent that 
Bank of Scotland plc has to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to him.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr O any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
make no other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2460267