K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund any 
commission it received from her mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) premiums for 
the policy she took out in 2000.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs Ss complaint about commission. The issue  of 
whether the policy  was mis-sold or not has already been dealt with in a different decision.
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint. I know this will disappoint Mrs S, but Ill explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Halifax has given me information  that shows Mrs Ss mortgage  was taken out in 2000 and 
ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund any of the commission Mrs S paid for the PPI she had with 
her mortgage.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2963160