K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  him two packaged
bank accounts.  The first was called an Additions  account and the second  was called an 
Additions Plus account. 
Mr I paid monthly fees for both accounts  and received several potential benefits  in return. He 
thinks that Barclays should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Is complaint and didnt think  that
Barclays had mis-sold either  account  to him.
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Is complaint.  Ive
looked into everything that Mr I and Barclays  have  told us or sent us about the case and Ive
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr I has banked with Barclays for quite a while. Barclays has sent us a summary of its
account history for him, which shows that he:
opened a fee-free account  in September 1991
changed to the Additions account,  for which Barclays charged him a monthly fee, in 
March 2000
changed to the Additions Plus account,  for which Barclays  charged him a higher 
monthly fee, in August 2005
changed back to a fee-free account in August 2006.
I think that Barclays records  about  this are probably  reliable, Mr I does not seem to have 
disputed them, and I have  taken them to be accurate. 
Although Mr I has complained about  similar things in the way Barclays  sold him both 
accounts, to make sure I havent missed anything, I have considered the two occasions 
separately.
The Additions account (2000).
On our questionnaire,  Mr I said that Barclays sold the Additions  account to him over the 
counter in one of its branches and recommended, or advised, him to buy it; whereas 
Barclays has said that it sold the account to him on a non-advised or information-only  basis. 
At that time,  Barclays often sold packaged bank  accounts in this way, where it would tell 
customers about the account, but wouldnt make a personal recommendation. 
Ref: DRN29137792I fully accept that Barclays may well have  discussed the account with Mr I at some  length, 
but I havent seen anything  to make me think that it made a personal  recommendation. So I 
have assessed  Mr Is complaint on the grounds  that Barclays sold the Additions account to 
him on a non-advised basis. This meant that Barclays  had to tell Mr I about the account and 
its costs clearly and fairly, and give him a choice about buying it, but didnt have to check  
that the account was right for his personal circumstances.
The crux of Mr Is complaint about the Additions account is that he thinks Barclays pushed  
him into buying it. Hes told us that Barclays told him that the account  could provide lots of 
extra benefits; but he only ever used the overdraft facility.
In March 2000, the potential benefits  of the Additions account included accidental  death 
insurance, cardholder  protection, access to a legal  helpline,  purchase protection insurance  
and a Will-writing service. It also gave customers cheaper overdrafts  than Barclays  offered 
to customers with fee-free  accounts.
I fully accept that Barclays told Mr I about these benefits, and may well have done so in a 
positive light. After  all, it was trying to sell the Additions account  to Mr I. Whether  there were 
lots of benefits is, of course,  subjective; but I dont think such a description would have 
amounted to mis-selling or to being  pushy.  
In recent  correspondence  with us, Mr I has told us that Barclays  didnt give him the option to 
stay with  his fee-free  account. Hes said that he would  have  preferred to pay nothing  for 
(an) account and not have  the overdraft.  I appreciate that Mr I is doing  his best to remember  
his situation back  in March 2000, but Barclays has sent us information from its records, 
which shows that he overdrew his balance both before and after Barclays  sold him the 
Additions account; so it seems to me that he may well have found the potential  overdraft  
savings with the Additions account  attractive at the time.  
I doubt that Barclays told Mr I that he couldnt keep his fee-free account.  He had held it for a 
long time and I havent seen anything to suggest that Barclays was planning to withdraw it 
from him. Barclays  may well have told him that he could only have the cheaper overdraft 
with the Additions  account, but this isnt the same  as telling him he couldnt have kept his 
existing account  if he had preferred. I dont think that Barclays denied  Mr I a choice.
I also think its likely that Barclays told Mr I how much the Additions account  would cost. The 
monthly fees would  appear on his bank statements, and I dont think  Barclays would have 
tried to hide them during  the discussion. 
I dont think that Barclays  mis-sold the Additions account to Mr I. 
Ref: DRN29137793The Additions Plus account  (August  2005)
Im not sure if Barclays  sold this account  to Mr I during another  discussion at a branch, or 
through a different channel, such as over the telephone. However, once again, and for 
similar reasons,  I think its likely that Barclays  sold him the account on an information  only 
basis. 
Mr I has told us that this time Barclays upgraded his account when he didnt want it to be 
upgraded. Had Barclays changed Mr Is account  in this way, without  his permission, then I 
would certainly consider  upholding  his complaint. However, I havent seen convincing 
evidence that it did so. 
The account  offered a different range of potential benefits than the Additions account,  
including travel insurance, domestic  emergency insurance and car breakdown cover.  
Potentially it could also offer cheaper  overdrafts than the Additions account. I think its likely 
that Barclays told Mr I about these benefits and he chose to change  accounts. I fully accept 
that he may not remember  all the details, but I doubt  that he didnt give his permission at the 
time. 
During the course of our investigation, there  has been some dispute  about how much  Mr I 
travelled, and so how useful  the travel insurance which came with the account could have 
been. Hes recently told us that his travels were limited to one holiday yearly.  I have  no 
reason to dispute this, but it doesnt mean  that the travel  insurance would not have been  of 
use to him. 
I accept that Mr I may not have wanted  or needed all the benefits that came with the 
Additions Plus account, but it came as package and this doesnt mean Barclays mis-sold  it.
As with the Additions account, and for similar  reasons, I also think its likely that Barclays  told 
Mr I how much he would need to pay for the Additions Plus account  and allowed him a 
choice. I dont think that Barclays mis-sold it to Mr I. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Is complaint  about Barclays
Bank UK PLC. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2913779