K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Nationwide sold Mr M the policy when he took out a loan in 2003. The policy provided cover 
if Mr M lost his job for up to 12 months or was unable to work due to accident or sickness 
until the end of the loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he thought the PPI was 
presented as optional and the costs were  clear. Overall he didnt think there was anything  to 
suggest the policy were  mis-sold. 
Mr M disagreed. He says he was told over the phone  the policy was a requirement of the 
loan and didnt  need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr M he had a choice in taking the PPI. The loan was 
applied for over the phone  and PPI was sold at the same time. Following the phone  call the 
the paper  work was sent out for signing and returning. A phone  recording isnt available for 
the sale so I dont know exactly what was said. 
Nationwide say that the documentation from the time of the sale makes it clear  to Mr M that 
PPI was optional.  Mr M says he was told he had to take PPI to get the loan. So to decide 
how the PPI was presented, Ive considered what Mr M has said along with what  Nationwide  
have said about  their sales process and any documents provided from the time of the sale.
Nationwide have sent us a copy of the sales script they say their staff used in 2003. I note 
that this sales script is dated just before the loan and PPI policy was taken out. This script 
shows that Mr M wouldve  been given a quote  for the loan with and without  the PPI. And 
from what Mr M has told us I cant say its likely  Nationwide didnt give him a quote for the 
loan with and without PPI.
Nationwide has given  us a copy of the loan agreement signed  by Mr M. I can see the loan 
agreement clearly sets out the cost of the loan and the Optional Credit Insurance with and 
without interest, separately. I dont think that Mr M wouldve thought  the PPI wasnt  optional 
when thats how its described in the agreement. 
Ref: DRN24860762And I think Mr M received  the loan agreement with PPI on it because he agreed to take out 
PPI over the phone. I think if he hadnt  agreed  to take PPI then he wouldve raised this with 
Nationwide after seeing PPI on the agreement.
So taking all this into consideration I think Mr M wouldve  known the PPI was optional on the 
loan and it was taken because he chose to take it.
Nationwide say the sale of the PPI was non-advised. From what  I understand of their sales  
process I think this wouldve been the case.  What  this means is that in their view they didnt 
recommend PPI to Mr M, they just gave  him information about PPI. This information  needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that Mr M could make an 
informed choice about buying  PPI.
From what  I can see on the loan agreement I think the cost of the PPI was clear,  but I dont 
know if the other information given was good enough. In saying that I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  because I still think Mr M wouldve taken out the policy because 
at the time he took the loan:
He was eligible  for the PPI and it doesnt look like he wouldve been  caught by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
There is nothing to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable.
Although Mr M says he had some   sick pay from his employer the PPI still provided 
him with a useful  benefit and a successful  claim wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
work benefits he had in place and for potentially longer.  
The policy offered  a pro-rata refund. So Mr M wouldnt have  lost out if he decided to 
refinance the loan or pay back the loan early. 
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr M. I 
think he wouldve still taken the PPI as it suited his needs and was of value  to him. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because:  
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  
that offer is fair in this case.
what Nationwide needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr M any commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr M any extra  interest 
he paid because of that.
Ref: DRN24860763Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr M the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr M paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay Mr M 8%* simple 
interest on the extra paid each month (15% on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2486076