K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Cumberland Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out PPI when  they arranged a mortgage to pay for some  home 
improvements. The policy covered both Mr and Mrs F and provided them with protection  in 
the event of accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with this 
view. Theyve told us that they didnt want or need  PPI as they had other  means they 
couldve relied on if they werent  working.  
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.  
Looking at the mortgage paperwork they completed, I think  they wouldve seen that it was up 
to them  to say if they wanted to take out PPI. There were Yes and No options for PPI on 
their mortgage application  and both Mr and Mrs F indicated  that they wanted PPI. They  also 
filled in a separate application to have it which they both signed. And on this form 
Mr and Mrs F said they wanted to share the benefit  of the policy  equally between  them.
So I dont  think the evidence is strong  enough  for me safely to say that Cumberland Building  
Society didnt make  it clear that it was open  to Mr and Mrs F not to choose PPI if they didnt 
want to have it, just based  on what they say now. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs F were persuaded  of the need  to protect their 
home and it was added to their account  when  they decided to buy the cover. 
Cumberland Building  Society recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs F and it doesnt look as if 
PPI was unsuitable based on what Mr and Mrs F told us about their circumstances at the 
time. 
They both felt that they had good  sick pay arrangements  through  work. But I think  PPI still 
couldve been useful.  It wouldve  paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident and sickness. So the PPI provided  better protection than Mr and Mrs F couldve  
relied on getting through their employers.  And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay 
providing them with a useful benefit  at a difficult time  especially  if they mightve had some 
extra costs  as a result of being sick or disabled.  
Ref: DRN28475472PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr F and/or Mrs F 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Mr and Mrs F couldve made repeated  claims on the policy, giving them  long term protection  
for their mortgage.
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to redundancy money. This wouldve protected any lump 
sum Mr and Mrs F mightve got giving them more financial  security.  So I can understand why 
someone with redundancy benefits would  still want  to have, and would benefit  from, having 
PPI as well.  
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that Mr and Mrs F told us they had 
substantial savings when  they took out this mortgage. But I dont  know  if they wouldve 
always had savings to rely on if theyd needed to make a claim. I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs F wouldve put at least some of their savings  towards  the costs of the work  they 
were having  done to improve their property. 
Even if Mr and Mrs F chose to borrow all the money needed to pay for this work, rather  than 
spend money they told us they had saved up, this suggests to me that it was important to 
them to keep their savings intact. Having  PPI meant Mr and Mrs F could keep  their savings 
to spend on other things  or to provide them with financial security. So I think the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs F taking into account what theyve told us about  their situation at the 
time.  
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  Ive taken into account what  Mr F told us 
about his health at the time he took out this mortgage. Mr F said hed never  had to take time 
off work as a result of his condition.  So I think its unlikely that Mr F wouldve expected to 
claim under the policy for this condition. Or that he wouldve  been  put off taking out the 
policy because of it. So this information  doesnt  change my decision. And it doesnt look like 
any of the other policy limitations or exclusions  wouldve affected Mr F. So I dont think  
having more information about these policy terms wouldve stopped  him taking out the PPI. 
And it doesnt look as if Mrs F was affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover.  So, 
I think it unlikely that better information about  the policys  exclusions and limitations  wouldve 
affected Mr and Mrs Fs decision to take out the cover.
The PPI cost at the end of the free period was made clear to Mr and Mrs F when they took 
out the PPI and before they had to pay anything  for it. And I can see that they set up 
separate arrangements to pay for it. This suggests  to me that even if theyve forgotten now,  
they wanted to have  PPI at the time and they were happy to pay for it. From what Ive seen, 
they havent suggested that they couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs F still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation.
So I dont  find theyve  lost out financially as a result of anything  that Cumberland Building 
Society mightve done wrong. This means  it doesnt  have to do anything  to put things right.
Ref: DRN28475473my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2847547