K820x#14complaint
Ms G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
number of Advantage Gold  packaged  bank accounts. Ms G paid a monthly  fee for the 
accounts which provided several  benefits in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  August 2019, 
along with my provisional thoughts on the matter. An extract from this is attached and forms 
part of this final decision, so I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. NatWest  didnt reply, but Ms 
G did. She sent in a number of documents, albeit without any further  comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive started by looking at the additional  documents Ms G has provided. Ms G provided:
Two letters related  to Working Tax Credit, dated  November  and December 2008
A copy  of her credit report dated January 2009
Two letters related  to overpayment of government benefits, dated March  2010 and 
November 2010
Bank statements from June 2010  to November 2010
A letter dated July 2010 from her employer,  relating to an earlier letter  about  a change to 
her employment terms
A letter related to a NatWest life insurance policy dated October  2010
Confirmation of an overdraft application in January  2011
Confirmation of her taking a NatWest personal loan in February 2011
A copy  of a work time sheet relating to November 2011
Without any additional comments from Ms G Ive looked carefully at what  shes provided, 
with a view to relating  it to my provisional findings. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything and its clear that Ms G has gone  to a lot of effort to 
provide the documents  that she has. But I havent found that anything shes  provided 
changes my previous  conclusions. I say this because I dont find the majority of the 
information relevant  to the complaint  thats  to say, its not related to the point Ms Gs 
packaged accounts were sold to her.
In my provisional decision I explained  that Ms G had told our adjudicator that she was 
unemployed in June  2010, at the point she upgraded her account  to the Advantage Gold  
account, so she needed extra credit. Ms G said thats the reason she agreed  to the upgrade.  
But having  looked at the bank statements Ms G has provided, I can see that she was 
receiving a regular  salary both before and after the upgrade  from at least June to 
November 2010.  
Ref: DRN20548512This further  persuades me that although Ms G may have been receiving working tax credits  
or other benefits  in addition to her salary, she was in fact employed when she upgraded her 
account. So I dont  think she did so on the premise of obtaining the Gold  credit card, which  
she believes  to be the means to get further  credit that she says she wouldnt have otherwise 
been able to obtain.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Ms Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint or 
make any award against National Westminster  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20548513EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED AUGUST 2019
background
Ms Gs account history  with NatWest is as follows:
It was opened in November 2003 as a fee-free account
It was upgraded to an Advantage Gold account in January 2004
It was downgraded to a fee-free account  in March 2004
It was upgraded to an Advantage Gold account in June  2010
It was downgraded to a fee-free account  in August 2010
It was upgraded to an Advantage Gold account in September 2010
It was downgraded to a fee-free account  in March 2013
Before this service considered Ms Gs complaint NatWest objected  to us looking into it  because it 
said Ms G had complained  too late. After our adjudicator  explained that he thought  we could look at 
the complaint, NatWest agreed. So as the issue around Ms G referring  the complaint  to this service 
late has already been resolved, I wont comment on that further in this decision.
Im also mindful  that Ms G has raised several service-related issues throughout  her complaint journey 
with this service.  As these issues have been dealt with by managers within the service, I wont 
comment on those here.
Another adjudicator then looked  into Ms Gs complaint and she didnt think  that NatWest mis-sold the 
packaged accounts to Ms G, so she didnt  recommend that NatWest should pay her any 
compensation. 
Ms G didnt agree  with what the adjudicator said and clarified a number  of points.  The complaint  has 
now been passed to me to make a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Ms Gs complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Ms Gs complaint  a lot of thought, I dont think the Advantage Gold accounts were mis-
sold to her. Ill explain why.
Did Ms G have  a fair choice about  whether  or not to upgrade?
I note Ms Gs comments that she upgraded each  time as NatWest was trying to sell her products. 
NatWest hasnt been able to provide much information about the sale in 2004, and Ms Gs complaint 
points arent  specific to each sale.  But thats understandable, since they happened such a long time 
ago. But Ive thought about whether its likely,  given all of the circumstances, she upgraded her 
account after being left with no choice other than to do so.
Firstly, Im mindful that Ms G had held a fee-free account with NatWest for several years before she 
first upgraded  in 2004. So she clearly knew that fee-free accounts were available to her, and I havent 
been told anything to make me think that had changed.
Ref: DRN20548514She also upgraded and downgraded  her account a couple of times,  after holding the Advantage Gold 
account for a couple of months. So Im persuaded that she was aware she didnt have to have an 
account that attracted a fee  and she was free to choose the account  that best suited her needs. 
I know Ms G has said she was coerced into upgrading her account. And its fair to say that NatWest 
mightve been  persuasive when  selling the benefits of it. But overall, Im not persuaded that she was 
forced to upgrade, or left with no other option.  And I think  she upgraded knowing she had a choice 
about whether to.
Was Ms G given the right information when she upgraded?
I dont think that NatWest recommended the packaged accounts  to Ms G  because I havent seen or 
been told anything to make me think that was the case. So it didnt have to check  if the account  was 
suitable for her personal  circumstances  or individual needs.
NatWest had to give Ms G enough clear information about the packaged  accounts  for her to decide  if 
she wanted  them. 
I cant  be sure what information was given to Ms G at the point of the first two upgrades, as again, I 
dont have much information about them. But I also dont have anything  to suggest  that Ms G wasnt 
given any information  about them. I wouldve expected some sort of a conversation to take place  
before Ms G agreed  to the upgrades, and its reasonable  to think  that Ms G wouldve at least been 
told about the Advantage  Gold  accounts  main features  at that point  after all, shed have expected to 
get something in return for switching to an account that shed have to pay a monthly fee for.
Ms Gs main complaint points appear to relate to the sale in September 2010. Shes  explained  that 
when she called NatWests  telephone banking service she was told that a Gold [credit] Card  was 
waiting for her, and all shed need to do is upgrade her account in order to have it. Ms G has 
explained that at that time, she was unemployed  and consequently she was unable to get a credit 
card elsewhere.  So she says she jumped at the opportunity, as her other credit cards had reached 
their limits and she was in need  of the extra credit.
Ive thought very carefully about this point but Im afraid I havent  found that NatWest did something 
wrong here. 
I reviewed Ms Gs account  transactions  for the months before,  and after she upgraded her account. 
And I asked Ms G for some further information about her circumstances around the time of the 
upgrade, as she seemed to be crediting her account fairly  regularly, and it also looks  as though she 
was receiving some sort of benefit payment.
In response to my enquiries Ms G told our adjudicator that she was in fact working in September  
2010, albeit in temporary roles and for minimal hours.  And she says that because  of that, she was 
receiving Working Tax Credits. 
I note that Ms G has said NatWest has withheld some information from the transaction lists it has 
provided. Its true that the transaction lists dont contain every  detail that Id expect to see on a regular 
bank statement, but I dont think  thats  unreasonable, given that these transactions took place almost 
nine years ago. And its unlikely that further details  about those transactions wouldnt make me think 
differently about what Ms G told me about  her circumstances. In any case, Im satisfied that Ms G 
wasnt unemployed  when she took the Gold Credit  card, so I dont think thats the sole reason  she 
upgraded to the Advantage Gold account.
I also asked NatWest  for some further information about the Gold Card that Ms G says she upgraded 
her account  to in order to get. NatWest  told me that the card wasnt exclusively available to 
Advantage Gold account  holders, and customers who didnt hold packaged  accounts  were  also able 
to apply  for it. 
Ref: DRN20548515Whilst I understand thats not what Ms G says happened, Im also mindful  that she already held a 
credit card with NatWest,  and her banking transactions suggest she also held several other credit  
cards elsewhere.  So Im not persuaded that she believed  the only way she could  obtain another credit 
card (either with NatWest  or elsewhere) was by upgrading her account  to the Advantage Gold  
account that she now says she didnt want. 
In response to our adjudicators assessment, Ms G discussed the findings  with the adjudicator at 
some length. Ive listened to that call and I note that shes said that the upgrade was treated as a 
quick sale for NatWest, and none of the benefits available to her were explained. 
Amongst others, the main benefits available  to Advantage Gold customers  in September  2010  were 
car breakdown cover,  mobile phone insurance  and worldwide travel insurance.
In the questionnaire Ms G sent to this service when she referred her complaint to us she said that she 
had a car, but she didnt have a mobile phone and she didnt travel.  During the phone call with the 
adjudicator she said she didnt have a car, and she had a mobile phone, albeit a cheap one. I also 
note that when Ms G initially referred her complaint to NatWest she completed the same 
questionnaire with the date of sale noted  as 1999; at that time she said she didnt have  a mobile 
phone but she did travel.  
Its unclear what Ms Gs exact  circumstances were at the time of each of the sales,  based on her 
recollections, so Ive gone on to think about what shes said  the fact that NatWest didnt tell her 
about any of the accounts benefits. Indeed thats an important factor here in deciding whether she 
was likely  told about  at least some of them,  and whether they mightve  been useful to her.
I cant  be sure exactly what information Ms G was given when she upgraded  her account in January 
2004 and June 2010, as theres not much information available about  them. But that doesnt mean 
NatWest should automatically  uphold the complaint about those sales.  And having considered 
everything, I do think that Ms G most likely agreed to the upgrades based on at least  some 
information. I say this because shes referred to being sold other products at the same time,  so it 
could be that she wanted to benefit from preferential rates  or other banking  benefits provided by the 
Advantage Gold account. And the fact that Ms G downgraded shortly after upgrading each time 
makes me think she was aware that the account came with a fee, and she didnt need to continue to 
pay that fee if she didnt want to, or if she no longer wanted the benefits  she initially agreed to 
upgrade to receive.
Turning to the third upgrade, Ive seen NatWests records of Ms Gs benefit usage from that point. I 
can see that she registered a mobile  phone under the accounts insurance  policy in February  2011  
around six months after upgrading.  In November 2011 she called to speak to the breakdown cover 
provider, and in August 2012  she ordered  some documents relating to the travel  insurance policy. 
NatWest also says Ms G called five times in January and February  2013 to discuss the accounts 
mobile phone insurance, and she went on to make two further calls to the membership  services  
helpline in February  and March 2013.
Without knowing the exact conversation that took place at the time of sale,  and therefore the 
information Ms G did receive, it seems most likely  to me, based on her actions,  that she was at least 
given some information  on what the benefits of the Advantage  Gold  account were. And looking at the 
way she engaged  with the benefits after the sale, it also seems as though she was relying on those 
benefits to some extent.  
I do accept that its possible that NatWest  didnt  tell Ms G everything it should have about  the 
Advantage Gold account  each time she upgraded. And I fully understand that with hindsight,  Ms G 
might not feel that the Advantage Gold accounts were good value for money to her. But I havent seen 
enough to make me think that Ms G wouldnt  still have taken the accounts each time, even if NatWest 
had told her more  about them.
Ref: DRN20548516Did NatWest deliberately  withhold information?
Ms G also seems concerned  that NatWest is not giving full or honest  information  when dealing with its 
complaints. She says that it denied that Ms G had a Gold Card but it found it when Ms G provided 
more information by way of old statements that she still had.
I certainly understand why Ms G raised  this point and it does seem that when NatWest first responded 
to Ms Gs complaint it couldve done a better job. Ms G raised this with NatWest and I understand she 
was in contact with a manager there, and a different case handler.
Ive seen the second response that NatWest sent to Ms G and Im satisfied that it accepted it had 
made several errors when it issued  its first response to her complaint. Whilst I, nor indeed NatWest, 
can explain  why that happened, I think its highly  unlikely  that it was deliberate. I can see that in its 
second response to Ms G, NatWest apologised  for those  errors and explained its findings on the 
complaint bearing in mind  the information  that had been omitted initially. Whilst this was undoubtedly 
frustrating for Ms G, I dont think NatWest acted unreasonably once the problem was brought to its 
attention.
I want  to reassure Ms G that Ive looked at all the information  I have about her complaint. And Ive 
thought carefully about everything  shes said. But having done so I dont currently think  NatWest mis-
sold the three  Advantage Gold accounts to her. So I dont think  it owes her any money.
END OF EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Ref: DRN2054851