K820x#14complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how Covea  Insurance Plc handled her claim on her car insurance 
following an accident.
background
Ms M was involved in a car accident in August 2017. In September 2017, she reported the 
accident to Covea. The following day, Covea contacted  the third party drivers insurer  and it 
accepted liability  for the accident.  
A few days  later, Coveas engineers declared  Ms Ms car a total loss. Covea valued Ms Ms 
car at £280  because  it had some pre-accident damage.
Ms M was unhappy with the valuation because, at the time she took the insurance out, shed 
valued her car at £2,000.  Covea asked her to send in details  to support her valuation.  Ms M 
sent a screenshot of a vehicle advert. Covea asked  for more information but Ms M didnt 
send anything else.
At the beginning  of November 2017,  Ms M complained to Covea about the valuation. In its 
final response letter of 5 December 2017, Covea agreed to increase its valuation to £380 as 
a goodwill gesture and to pay Ms M £50 for its delay in contacting her about her claim during 
October 2017. In its letter, it said it would make a payment of these sums by BACS  transfer 
and it did.
Also at the beginning of November 2017, Ms M contacted the third party insurer  directly  to 
claim for the damage to her car, because she said Covea was taking too long. From records  
Covea has shown us, on 4 December 2017,  the third party  insurer settled her claim for 
£1,200. But Ms M wanted to keep her car, so the insurer  deducted £200 from the settlement 
amount and sent her a cheque for £1,000.
When Covea tried to recover from the third party insurer the £380  it had paid Ms M, the 
insurer said it had settled  Ms Ms claim directly  with her and so would not be reimbursing 
Covea. So Covea  is now recovering that money  from Ms M.
Ms M is unhappy with Coveas handling  of her claim. She thinks  the valuation  was too low. 
She says it paid £430 into her account  without  telling her. She says she went  to the third 
party insurer  because she was getting  nowhere with Covea. And shes unhappy Covea 
wants her to repay the £380 settlement amount it has paid her. Ms M would like 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  all this has caused  her.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ms complaint didnt uphold it. She thought Coveas 
valuation of the vehicle, and the compensation it offered for its delay in contacting  her, was 
fair and reasonable. Ms M doesnt accept our adjudicators findings on these  points.
Our adjudicator also didnt  think Covea had done anything wrong in seeking  to recover its 
costs from Ms M, since Ms M had received a settlement from the third party  insurer for the 
same loss. Ms M has told our adjudicator  she accepts these findings, so I wont  be 
considering this point in my decision.
Ref: DRN25460042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I know  this will disappoint her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give will help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Ms Ms car insurance  policy. This says Covea  can settle Ms Ms claim by 
paying in cash  the amount of the loss or the damage  to her car. And it says the maximum it 
will pay is the market value of the car. It says the market value is the value of the car and its 
accessories at the date of accident  or loss.
I should say my role here isnt to place a value on Ms Ms car. Instead, its to decide  if 
Coveas offer was within a fair and reasonable range. We assess  market  value as the retail 
price a consumer would have to pay for a comparable car at a reputable dealer immediately 
before the damage or loss. This may be lower than the price  the car is advertised at  
because the dealer may have built in a margin for negotiation.  But its likely to be higher than 
the price in a private sale or auction  or the trade value (which is the price a dealer would pay 
before adding its mark-up).
And we think the fairest  way for an insurer to decide the market value of a car is to look at 
the main motor industry guides. We think these are persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide  research  and likely sales figures  rather  than, for 
example, advertised  prices. But we also accept there are fluctuations in the valuations these 
guides give, because  placing a value on a car isnt an exact science.
From information Covea has sent us, I can see its engineer assessed the car as being 
beyond economic repair and noted some pre-accident damage. Covea also looked at a 
number of the motor  trade guides  to get a valuation  for the car. Our adjudicator also checked 
the motor trade guides for a car of the make, model and age of Ms Ms car. The range of 
prices she got was similar to those Covea got. 
I agree  with our adjudicator that, by offering a settlement figure within  the range of valuations  
given by the main  motor  industry guides,  Covea has acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the terms of Ms Ms car insurance  policy. And I think Covea acted fairly and reasonably 
in relying on its engineers  report to make the deduction it did from that valuation  for the pre-
accident damage. So I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint on this point.
Ms M says Covea didnt  notify her it was paying  £430 into her account. But its final response 
letter of 5 December  2017 did say it was making  this payment. The letter was correctly  
addressed, so I think Covea sent it out  even though Ms M says she didnt get it. So I dont 
uphold Ms Ms complaint  on this point.
Ms M also says she contacted the third party  insurer because she was getting nowhere  with 
Covea. I can see from records Covea has sent us it had been in touch with Ms M about  the 
valuation  and was waiting to hear from her to move things forward. So while Ms M may not 
have been getting the answer she wanted  from Covea  on the valuation, I think it was trying 
to settle her claim. Covea does, though, accept it couldve been more  pro-active  in 
contacting Ms M during  October 2017  for the information it had asked her for, and it has paid 
Ms M £50 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience this caused her. I think  that 
Ref: DRN25460043was fair and reasonable. But I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to award Ms M any 
further compensation.
One final point  Id like to make is that Ms M says shes  unhappy  with the delay at the start of 
her claim. Weve made  some enquiries and it seems this relates  to the time when her claim 
was being handled by a claims management company (CMC), which shed been referred to 
by the broker  who sold her the car insurance. I understand Covea had no knowledge of the 
referral or of the accident  at that stage. So it doesnt  seem to me Covea  is responsible for 
any delays that may have  taken place before it took over the claim, which from what Ive 
seen was on 25 September  2017. But if Ms M is still unhappy about this issue  she may 
complain to her broker who made  the referral to the CMC  and then complain to us if shes 
unhappy with its response.  I should say we wouldnt be able to look at any complaint Ms M 
has about the actions of the CMC, since they arent  within our jurisdiction.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2546004