K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained  about the mortgage interest rate that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) 
offered them.  They  have an interest  only mortgage and are in negative equity. They  believe  
the bank should look at their situation  on an individual basis  and offer them  a lower rate, and 
move them onto a repayment basis, so they can start paying money off the balance.
background
In 2007, Mr and Mrs R bought a property  for £274,000. They took out an interest only 
mortgage with The Mortgage Works (TMB)  for around £220,000 over 25 years. The 
mortgage offer said that they planned  to repay the mortgage at the end of the term by using 
an ISA. The mortgage  was divided into two main parts:
-The first was for £143,273 and was transferred (ported) from a previous  mortgage. 
It was on a tracker rate, which was 0.490% above the Bank of England  base rate 
until the end of May 2009, then 1.79% about the Bank of England base  rate for the 
rest of the 25 year term.
-The second part was for around £78,000 and was initially  on a fixed rate until the end 
of May 2009, followed by TMBs standard variable  interest rate.
The 2007  mortgage offer also set out that these rates  were  only available when the amount 
of loan was less than 85% of the property value or purchase price, whichever was the lower.
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs R had bought their house at the peak of the property market in 
their area, and they were soon within negative equity  in other words, they owed more on 
their mortgage than their property was worth.
In February 2019,  Mr and Mrs R got in touch with TMB, because they were concerned that 
they wouldnt be able to repay  their mortgage balance at the end of the mortgage  term. By 
2019, Mr and Mrs R were  paying 2.54% on the first part of their mortgage  on the tracker 
rate, and 5.2%  on the second  part of their mortgage. By this point they also had a small third 
part of their mortgage, for previous fees,  of around £1,300 which  was on a repayment  basis  
and also at 5.2%. Mr and Mrs R asked TMB to reduce the interest rate so they were paying 
2.54% on the whole of their mortgage.
TMB said it couldnt do this. It explained that it was no longer taking on new business, so it 
suggested that Mr and Mrs R should get in touch with a specialist remortgage part of the 
same banking group, Bank of Scotland. 
Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs R that the lowest rate it could offer on the second  part of 
their mortgage was 4.89%. This was because of the amount of their mortgage compared to 
the value of their property.  And it also said that on the figures, it wouldnt be affordable for Mr 
and Mrs R to change  to repayment.
Mr and Mrs R complained. The banks  final response explained that interest rates are largely 
determined by the loan to value (LTV) of a mortgage. Mr and Mrs Rs LTV was 131%. So the 
lowest rate it could offer was 4.89% fixed for two years. The bank added that it understood 
the situation, but wasnt able to change its criteria or policy to suit individual  customers. It 
had guidelines it must  adhere to, to ensure fair and consistent treatment of all its customers.
Ref: DRN20803412Mr and Mrs R did remortgage with Bank of Scotland, saving £15 a month. But they werent 
satisfied and complained to this service. They said they were  mortgage prisoners who had 
been encouraged to take out interest only mortgages at the peak of the housing market.  
They were  stuck on interest only and in negative equity.  They  believed  the lenders wanted  to 
prolong their financial agony, rather than offer any help.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. He explained  that when lenders 
decide what interest rates to offer, they can set criteria about whos  eligible  for those rates.  
Lenders have various criteria, but the relevant  one in Mr and Mrs Rs situation was the LTV.
LTV affects what lenders  offer,  because they reflect risk. The investigator  also pointed out 
that Mr and Mrs R had only been  offered the rates they had in 2007 because  at that point 
their LTV was below 85%. 
The investigator also considered Bank of Scotland had acted fairly when it refused to let Mr 
and Mrs R change to a repayment mortgage. That was because  it had said Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt be able to afford the increased  payments. And although the rules said lenders can 
disregard affordability in these circumstances, that was only if it was in the borrowers  best 
interests. And it wouldnt be in Mr and Mrs Rs best interest to have a mortgage that was 
fundamentally unaffordable.
Mr and Mrs R said the investigators  decision wasnt fair. They said they were  mortgage 
prisoners at the mercy of the bank. As a result they were faced with years  of financial 
pressure, uncertainty,  and the prospect of never owning their own home or becoming 
homeless when they should be retiring.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs R are frustrated and angry at what  they believe  is unfair.  But 
lenders, and this service,  do have to take relevant rules  into consideration. We also have  to 
be fair to both parties.
The rules  about  lending were very different in 2007. Mr and Mrs R have pointed out that they 
wouldnt have been offered as much as they had been in 2007, if current  affordability  criteria 
had applied  then.  Thats true, because  following  the financial crash,  the regulator of financial  
services, then the Financial Services Authority,  reviewed the mortgage market to see 
whether changes were  needed. New stricter rules were introduced, including stricter 
affordability checks, and stricter checks on interest  only mortgages. Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage was interest  only, and I see that their 2007 mortgage offer says You  have told us 
you are using an ISA to pay off your mortgage  at the end of the term. It is important to check 
the performance of the plan at regular  intervals to see whether it is likely to be adequate to 
repay the capital  at the end of the term.  Ive seen  no evidence  about any such  ISA. The 
rules about  lenders assessing  affordability, and checking up on the eventual  repayment plan 
for interest  only mortgages,  changed  a lot in 2014. 
The fact that Mr and Mrs R were  able to get the mortgage they did in 2007 doesnt mean that 
in 2019 they were entitled to move  all of their borrowing onto the lowest  rate. Mr and Mrs R 
were fortunate in one sense, because the first part of their mortgage was on a lifetime 
tracker rate. With multiple Bank  of England  interest rate reductions since  2007,  this has 
Ref: DRN20803413proved to be a really  good deal. But there was never a guarantee  that their other  borrowing 
could move onto this rate too. 
Although Mr and Mrs R consider themselves to be mortgage prisoners, they were able to 
move to another lender,  by taking out the mortgage with Bank  of Scotland after their 
previous mortgage  with TMB. But theyd like the cheapest  available  deal so they can start to 
pay off their mortgage.
We expect lenders to treat all customers fairly and equally. All lenders, whether for a 
mortgage or a personal loan, structure  their interest  rates according to risk. If they think  
theres a high risk they wont get all their money back, the interest rate will be higher to 
compensate. When Mr and Mrs R asked TMB for a lower rate, it calculated  that they owed 
131% of what their property was worth. So if the lender  ever had to possess the property, its 
very unlikely  it would get back all the money owed.  This was why it wouldnt offer Mr and Mrs 
R a lower interest rate than 4.89% - to reflect the risk. The fall in value of Mr and Mrs Rs 
property was neither  their fault, nor the banks fault. Its that fall, coupled  with having taken 
an interest only mortgage which wouldnt have been  affordable  on current  standards,  which  
has caused the problem.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs R believe that Bank of Scotland shouldnt  go by the rules  or 
normal lending criteria in their case,  because they took out an interest  only mortgage, and 
the value of their property  fell. But this service wouldnt say that this situation  means  a lender 
has to make an exception  for individual  borrowers,  and offer them  a rate the borrowers 
would find acceptable  instead of the lenders normal rates.  
So I dont  consider that Bank of Scotland was wrong when it refused to let Mr and Mrs R 
have a lower rate than it would have offered to other  customers  in a similar situation.
Ive also considered whether Bank  of Scotland was wrong to refuse  to allow  Mr and Mrs R to 
move to a repayment basis in 2019.  The relevant rules say that in these circumstances, 
lenders may conduct an affordability  assessment, but dont have to if its in the borrowers 
best interests. Ive seen  the financial assessments which were carried out at the time of Mr 
and Mrs Rs 2019 application. Mr and Mrs R had told Bank of Scotland  that their maximum 
monthly budget  was £960, and the interest  only option would mean a monthly payment of 
£626. But if just the second part of their mortgage  was changed to repayment, leaving the 
first part on interest only, this would increase their payment to £990, more  than their budget.  
I dont consider it would  be in Mr and Mrs Rs best interest for them to risk going  into arrears. 
That would affect their credit file, and mean  it would  be harder to find any other lenders in 
future. And going into arrears  would increase the stress and pressure  on them,  too. 
Bank of Scotland has said that Mr and Mrs R can make overpayments  of up to 10% of the 
outstanding balance each year, as and when  they can afford it. I find that this is a better 
alternative for Mr and Mrs R, than if they were tied in to a repayment mortgage  which  would 
be less affordable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 April 2020.
Ref: DRN20803414Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2080341