K821x#15complaint
Mr E a director  of J, a retail  business, complains that its commercial business insurer,  Royal  
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly declined  its claim for loss of stock  from a theft.
background
J suffered a theft in December 2016  at its business  premises, which  it discovered  three  days  
later and claimed to RSA.  RSA declined the claim on the basis  that the loss occurred during 
business hours and did not involve forcible  and violent  entry  to Js building.  It said there was 
no assault or threats and so this loss was due to shoplifting, and not covered by the policy.
Mr E said the thieves punched  out the lock to a fixed display cabinet which was anchored  in 
the centre of its shop  floor.  He said this represented  forcible and violent entry  to the cabinet  
which forms part of the building  as defined by the policy.
RSA said that although  the policy provides  cover  for theft, and there was forcible entry  to the 
cabinet, the policy excludes:
Damage to Property at Your Premises  which does not involve
a) entry to or exit from that part of the Building  occupied by You for the purpose of the
Business by forcible and violent means
Or b) actual or threatened assault or violence. 
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. She said we consider building  to 
include any permanent fixtures and fittings and the cabinet is a fixture and so forms part of 
the building. She said RSA had also provided  a definition of buildings which  included  
landlords fixtures and fitting. She said the lock had been forced and so the exclusion clause 
didnt apply, and the claim should  be covered by the policy. 
RSA disagreed with the investigators  definition  of building and said this didnt accord with 
the language of the policy. It thought the requirement for forcible or violent entry was into 
that part of the building  occupied by the policyholder for the purpose of business.  And a 
cabinet (whether  defined as buildings or not) cant be occupied  for the purposes  of business 
 its for storage of stock.  It said if the cabinet belonged to Js landlord  as stated, it would 
expect a lease  agreement to set out who was responsible for insurance.
RSA set out the definition of theft and said that any other insurer  would  have reached  the 
same conclusion on this claim. It said if the cabinets  are buildings, then minimum security 
standards and building construction requirements  in the policy  apply. RSA requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the circumstances of the theft, Js insurance policy and RSAs 
decision on Js claim to see if it has treated J fairly. Having done so I dont think it has and so 
I uphold the complaint. I will explain the reasons I have reached this conclusion.  
Ref: DRN23421282Its worth  bearing in mind  that its the policyholders  responsibility to prove they have a claim, 
and I think J has done so with the evidence it has provided of the theft. It then becomes  the 
insurers responsibility to prove that an exclusion clause within the policy means that it can 
decline the claim.
RSA has latterly sent us the policy applying to J at the time of the theft.  This carries an 
exclusion for Damage for claims  in the absence of forcible and violent means  of entry  or 
exit from the building. It doesnt mention loss of stock and the definition of damage  in the 
policy refers to accidental  loss. Nevertheless,  Ive assumed for the purposes of this decision 
that the exclusion clause intends  to cover loss by theft. 
Its accepted by the parties that a thief entered  Js premises during normal open hours and 
forced a display cabinet and stole some of the contents. The central issue here then, is 
whether the display cabinet from which the theft took place was fixed  to the floor and if it is a 
fixture, does  it form part of the building as defined by the policy.
The policy defines  building(s) as; 
Buildings (being  built mainly of brick,  stone, concrete or other non-combustible materials 
unless stated differently  in the Schedule or Statement of Fact) and including
 landlords fixtures  and fittings in and on the buildings.
RSA said it failed to see how a cabinet could  be interpreted  as part of a building  or premises 
for this type of claim.  It said it would  consider  the cabinet to be part of the building for a fire 
claim, but its definition  of theft means a cabinet falls outside of what constitutes  a building.
Business Premises are separately defined as that part of the premises solely  occupied  by 
you for the purpose  of the business. And Premises as the address shown in the insurance 
schedule. However,  the exclusion clause above refers to Building and this refers  to fixtures  
and fittings as included within the definition. 
Ive seen photos and a description of Js cabinet  and it appears to be fixed  to the floor of the 
business premises. I think this means  its a fixture  of the building  under the policy  definition  
above. The definition  isnt stated to apply  to one type of claim and not another. And I think 
Js loss falls within the common understanding of theft. Mr E has provided  evidence that J 
owns its business premises  and so theres  no differentiation between it and a landlord.
RSA said were imposing a definition that doesn't accord with the language of the policy.  It 
goes on to say forcible  or violent entry must be into that part of the building  occupied  by the 
policyholder for the purpose of business.  And a cabinet cant  be occupied for the purposes of 
business  its for storage of stock. I think this has fallen outside the normal  language  and 
common understanding of the policy rather than our straightforward application  of RSAs 
definition of whats included in a building for the purposes of the policy.  And in any event, I 
think J is occupying the cabinet by use of this facility to sell its goods.  
Because the cabinet is a fixture of the building, I think  its properly classed by the policy as 
part of the building. The evidence of forcible and violent entry  to the cabinet accords with the 
common understanding of theft of Js stock. And so, I dont think that RSA has shown that 
the exclusion clause  applies  to Js claim.  Consequently,  I think  RSA should  reconsider the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  And RSA should add 
Ref: DRN23421283interest to any settlement  of the claim to reflect Js loss of use of the funds involved in the 
stock.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc to reconsider Js claim without reference to its 
understanding of the definition of building and its application  of the exclusion clause in the 
policy for forcible and violent entry.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc must also pay interest* on the amount of any settlement 
of Js theft claim at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date J made its claim to the date 
it makes the payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E on behalf  of J 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must  give a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken  
off it if J asks for one.
Ref: DRN2342128