K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains that Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited (CCMG) failed to respond 
to emails she sent and as a result has received a visit from the Sheriffs  office. She wants  
CCMG to write  off her debt as a result.
background 
Mrs B has been represented  throughout this complaint by her son but for ease I will refer to 
Mrs B throughout this decision although some of the actions may have been  her sons.
Mrs Bs original  loan was taken out with a company Ill call B. But when Mrs B struggled to 
repay the loan they sold the debt to CCMG in June  2016. The outstanding  balance at that 
point was £2,645. In August CCMG  appointed  a solicitor to manage  the debt on their behalf.
Mrs B emailed CCMG in mid August 2016  to discuss continuing with the payment plan she 
had with B. But she didnt receive a response  even after chasing them again the following 
month.
In April 2018 Mrs B received an unexpected  visit from the sheriffs office who had been 
asked to attend by the appointed  solicitor.  
So Mrs B complained to CCMG. She said shed missed  out on making repayments of about 
£1,260 as a result of their failure to contact her and she wanted them to write off her debt.
But CCMG  didnt agree. They accepted that theyd made a mistake  not replying to Mrs Bs 
emails but they also explained that they had previously written  to Mrs B and explained that 
the solicitors would now be managing things; CCMG would have no further  involvement,  and 
Mrs B should make  contact with the solicitors  from now on. They offered to reduce Mrs B 
debt by £75 to compensate her for the inconvenience their poor communication had caused.
But Mrs B was still dissatisfied and she referred her complaint to this service.  Our 
investigator took a look at the evidence and consulted  with CCMG who raised their offer and 
said theyd reduce Mrs Bs debt by £150. But the investigator didnt think  CCMG needed  to 
do any more. He recognised that the level of service provided by CCMG  was not as good as 
it should have  been and they should  have  replied to her emails, but he noted  that she wasnt  
any worse off as a result  her debt was still the same. And he thought  the offer CCMG  had 
now made was sufficient to compensate Mrs B for the distress and inconvenience  shed 
been put to.
But Mrs B didnt agree and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs B but I think CCMG have made a reasonable offer here and I 
wont be asking them to take any further action.  I can understand that this is a significant 
issue for Mrs B so please  let me explain my thinking.
Ref: DRN26472852Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I cant see that Mrs B has been  disadvantaged financially by CCMGs mistake.  Theres been  
no interest applied  and there havent  been any late payment charges made to her account.  
Her payments were not made, but still can be. 
I can understand that it would be distressing to have representatives from the sheriffs  office 
turn up unannounced  but as CCMG had passed the management of the debt to the solicitors 
I think that complaint  can only fairly be handled by them: I believe Mrs B is currently doing 
that. I can see that our investigator has referred her to the legal ombudsman should she 
need to escalate that complaint. 
CCMG should certainly have responded to Mrs Bs emails and shes  received poor service  
from them as a result. But Ive considered  what theyve now offered and I think their 
suggestion of reducing the debt by £150  is reasonable in the circumstances and is a fair 
resolution.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I tell Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited  to reduce 
Mrs Bs debt by £150 to compensate her for the poor service  they have provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2647285