K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains on behalf of her parents, Mr and Mrs R, who are unhappy with the way that 
their home insurance claim for water  damage was dealt with by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs R suffered an escape of water from their kitchen. Lloyds arranged 
for a personal calms consultant (PCC) and contractor to attend, It was agreed that the 
property needed  to be stripped out and dried.  The strip out commenced,  but Mr and Mrs R 
werent offered  any alternative accommodation,  as Lloyds  said they had cooking and 
washing facilities. They  went to live with Ms H, because of the conditions they had to live in 
(property being stripped out, and damp)..  After testing of the kitchen tiles the underlying  tiles 
were found  to contain asbestos and their removal was arranged. 
In early October 2018 a PCC visited the property again  they advised that following the 
asbestos removal and given Mr and Mrs Rs ages and health,  they should  be in alternative 
accommodation. As they were living with their daughter it was agreed that a disturbance  
allowance of £10 per day each would be paid,  backdated to the date of the claim and 
allowing for the repairs to take place. Lloyds also agreed to pay £150 compensation as 
Mr and Mrs R werent  able to enjoy their wedding anniversary on the day. Lloyds agreed a 
cash settlement with Ms H for the repairs to be completed and Mr and Mrs R returned  home  
in December 2018.
Ms H advised that Lloyds  hadnt paid all the electricity costs and that Mr and Mrs R were  
now expected  to pay a lot more for their electricity by their provider. She also said that 
Mr and Mrs R were upset  to receive  a letter relating to someone elses claim and were  made  
anxious about it until an explanation was provided.  She pointed out that they had had to 
contribute to the repairs from their savings and that they should have had alternative 
accommodation offered  to them  from the start.
Lloyds apologised  for the wrong letter being  sent to Mr and Mrs R. It also explained that the 
electricity costs were calculated by deducting  from the amount to be paid their ordinary 
usage calculated  from the previous years bill. It didnt consider there were any unnecessary 
delays or service issues.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Lloyds should have offered alternative 
accommodation or a disturbance allowance from the start, taking into account the ages and 
health of Mr and Mrs R. She proposed that Lloyds  pay a further  £150  compensation.
Ms H didnt accept this, she said that Mr and Mrs R hadnt received any compensation  
theyd received a payment to help them celebrate  their wedding anniversary. She said 
Mr and Mrs R were further unhappy that their electricity payments had increased.
Lloyds accepted the proposed further  compensation payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27045362alternative accommodation
Lloyds initially refused this or any payment towards  it as it said the property wasnt  
uninhabitable, with full washing and cooking  facilities. If as in this case the policyholders  are 
living with relatives, then a disturbance allowance can be paid. This isnt compensation  its 
a payment to allow for any extra expense like food etc from not living at home. The policy 
says alternative accommodation  will be offered  when the property is uninhabitable. Whilst 
this might normally mean it doesnt have cooking  and/or  washing facilities, this service  has 
long taken the view that it depends on the circumstances.
Here Mr and Mrs R are an elderly couple  with health and mobility issues. I think it was 
unreasonable to expect  them to live in the property while  it was damp  and being  stripped 
out. Lloyds has suggested that this was only the case once the asbestos test took place but 
the property was being stripped out for drying before then, The fact that Lloyds  later 
accepted this and backdated  the disturbance allowance  to the start of the claim indicates to 
me it accepted this. 
I appreciate that Lloyds  would have had to pay much more for hotel or rented 
accommodation if Mr and Mrs R hadnt moved in with their daughter. But I have to look at 
the matter as it was and cant award compensation on the basis of what Lloyds  might  have 
had to pay had the circumstances been  different. So Ive taken  into account that Lloyds paid 
this allowance  for the duration of the claim.
From Lloyds point of view, the disturbance allowance isnt compensation so I think  its 
reasonable for Lloyds to pay further  compensation, as I shall set out below.
electricity 
As Lloyds  and our investigator explained,  Mr and Mrs R would have had to pay normal  
electricity costs had they stayed in their property. I believe Lloyds has now paid the cost of 
the electricity over and above that sum. I believe Ms H accepts this.
As regards  those costs  going up I would think this is because the service provider has 
estimated their future  electricity use based in the cost incurred whilst the driers  were running. 
That isnt anybodys fault. Usually if the supplier  is approached and the situation explained it 
should be amenable to going back to the normal payment, especially as a years further 
costs have now been incurred.
wrong letter sent
I understand that Mr and Mrs R were  upset to receive a letter relating to a completely 
different claim, by mistake. Ms H tells us Mrs R was upset  by this and I can understand this, 
since it refers to a complaint being turned down. But it doesnt  as suggested imply fraud or 
dishonesty so whilst I think that Lloyds was a little slow to recognise the letter  had been sent 
I think its apology in this respect  was  reasonable.
compensation
Ms H insists that her parents werent paid compensation, but were given a gift as they were 
unable to celebrate their wedding  anniversary. This payment of £150, and some flowers, 
was specifically to compensate  them  for them having to return  to the property for more 
dehumidifiers to be fitted rather than being  able to celebrate their wedding anniversary that 
Ref: DRN27045363day. So whilst I understand that the payment was linked to the celebration of their wedding 
anniversary, it was nevertheless  agreed  as compensation for d&i (distress and 
inconvenience) in the claims notes. So I have taken this into account  in considering 
compensation.
I think Mr and Mrs R could have been  treated  more sympathetically at first because of their 
situation. This is particularly with regard to their need for alternative accommodation. But I 
think the proposal to pay a further  £150  compensation  is reasonable to resolve this.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and 
Mrs R a further £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H on behalf  of 
Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2704536