K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Ms F says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ms F says that she didnt ask for the PPI, and that it wasnt clear that the PPI was optional.  
But I think that BoS made it clear that the PPI was optional, and that Ms F chose to take it 
out  but I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago.
BoS has provided a copy of Ms Fs credit  card application, and on this I can see that the PPI 
is presented as an optional product, and has been  selected. Ms F has then signed the 
application, agreeing to the information on it. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms F so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms F about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms F has said, but these points dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms F paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms F back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Ms F.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Ref: DRN23065672Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306567