K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage with Nationwide  in 1999.  At the same  time he bought a PPI policy  
which wouldve covered  his mortgage  repayments  and a small additional sum for up to 12 
months at a time if he couldnt  work due to an accident or sickness. 
Mr K says he was given the impression he had to take the PPI to qualify  for the mortgage.  
He says he wouldnt have  bought  it otherwise.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ks complaint should  be upheld.  Mr K disagrees,  so his case  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Mr K doesnt  suggest he didnt agree  to buy the PPI. But he says he was given the 
impression he had to buy the PPI to qualify for the mortgage. Nationwide  says that it wasnt 
a condition of the borrowing to also take PPI.
Mr K hasnt explained what was said or done  to give him the impression he had to take the 
PPI. Nationwide  has provided a copy of a declaration Mr K signed. This is explicit in making 
it clear that Mr K had a choice about  buying  the policy. Mr K ticked a box to say that he 
wanted to buy the PPI. Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer made  to Mr K. PPI isnt 
included in the conditions of lending.  Ive also seen a copy  of a form Mr K completed where 
he could explain how important certain  types  of financial  security were to him. Mr K ticked a 
box and signed  the form to say that knowing his income was protected  in the event of 
accident, sickness or unemployment was very important to him.
So on the information available to me I think it wouldve been clear to Mr K that he didnt  
have to buy the PPI if he didnt  want  to. I think he chose to take it knowing he didnt have  to.
Ive looked at the rest of the sale to see if theres any other  way in which the policy mightve 
been mis-sold to Mr K. I dont think that there  was.
Nationwide advised  Mr K to buy the policy so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure it 
was right for him. Looking at Mr Ks circumstances at the time I think  that it was. I say this 
because:
Mr K was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
relating to existing  medical conditions;
Ref: DRN23551492Mr K was self-employed,  so he wasnt entitled  to any contractual sick pay. The policy  
wouldve covered  his mortgage repayments for up to a year at a time, so I think  it 
offered him a useful benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies available at the same 
time offering  the same benefit;
I havent seen  anything to suggest the cost was unaffordable for Mr K.
Its possible Mr K didnt  receive all the information  he ideally shouldve done.  But I dont think  
more information  wouldve  made  him change his mind about buying the policy.  I think  it 
wouldve just demonstrated that the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive described. 
Mr K says he was off work sick for a time during the life of the policy  and he went  into 
arrears with his mortgage repayments. I dont know why Mr K didnt make a claim: it may still 
be possible  for him to do so retrospectively.  But I dont think this point is relevant to Mr Ks 
complaint because Im satisfied Mr K was aware he had bought the policy.
So I dont  think Mr K lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide mightve done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint so it follows  that Nationwide  Building  Society  doesnt  
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2355149