K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about the suitability of Springfield Financial Services  Limited s investment 
advice, the delays in surrendering her investments and the way it dealt with her complaint.  
She also raised various other complaint points, arguing she had been unfairly pressured into 
agreeing to the recommendations,  hadnt been in a position to understand the proposals  or 
make such  a momentous decision about her future  finances.
background
Springfield rejected her complaint, saying it was satisfied the advisor had acted 
professionally and appropriately,  and that he would have been able to assess whether she 
was in a positon to discuss  such matters  and make a decision about them. It rejected the 
various allegations about the advisors behaviour  and statements.
It also rejected the notion that the advice itself was flawed.  It noted that, according to the 
advisors record, Mrs G was receiving £45,000 to £50,000 a year from pensions, 
maintenance and state benefits. It said the advisor recorded her core outgoings at around 
£25,000. It said she had a £500,000 mortgage-free property and around  £340,000 in capital 
(£40,000 of which was earmarked for specific items) but was adding £1,000 a month to this.
This meant the recommendation only involved half of her available capital, in simple 
investments which  matched her risk profile  and with a capacity for small losses, something 
she was in a position to absorb.
Mrs G contested virtually all of Springfields assertions, including the advisors  figures about 
her situation:  from the value of the house,  the size of her capital, her guaranteed income and 
the notion that she was saving £1,000 a month. She offered detailed evidence  which  
appeared to demonstrate that her late husbands  financial affairs had yet to be resolved and 
that the estate  was in significant  equity.  This and a recalculation of her pension entitlement 
subsequently reduced her capital by £80,000, according to Mrs G. 
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld.
He noted that at the time of the advice, in early 2017, Mrs G was recently  widowed, had lost 
her husbands  income, stopped working and was responsible for her two children i.e. she 
was going through a period of financial change and still grieving for her loss. As such he felt 
she should have  been treated as a vulnerable  client, and it would have been best practice  
for her to have been accompanied during her meetings with the advisor.
He noted that Mr and Mrs Gs joint income  had been around £200,000 a year,  and yet she 
had yet to make the necessary adjustments  to take account of the loss of both incomes. 
Given this, he felt it was premature to invest and she should  have probably been advised to 
wait until shed had time to adjust to her new circumstances.  
That said,  he recognised  that she was concerned about the level of return she was getting, 
having all of her capital on deposit. So, on balance,  he felt it was reasonable to recommend 
she invest some money but thought the recommendations exposed  it to a greater degree of 
risk than would  have been a suitable  for an investor in her situation  and with no previous 
investment experience.
Ref: DRN27121532Overall, he felt Mrs R should not have  been advised  to take more  than a cautious risk with 
her money and so Springfield should calculate  how much her money would be worth,  by the 
point of surrender,  if it had only been exposed to a low risk  and by using this services 
standard low risk formula. It should then add interest  to any loss.
He said this would fully compensate for the delay in surrendering the investments.
Springfield did not agree, and said:
Her risk profile and capacity for loss were correctly ascertained;  her capital on 
deposit and guaranteed income meant  that overall  her portfolio met her attitude  to 
risk
Just because someone has a 75% holding in equities, it does not mean that the risk 
is higher as a result
It recommended £150,000 remain  on deposit, at almost zero risk, resulting in a 
portfolio of: UK Equities  20%, Global Equities 17%, Fixed Interest 5.0%, Property 
7.5% and 50.5%  in cash
If anything, her entire portfolio  is lower risk than her attitude to risk would  dictate. The 
cash holding has to be taken into account when looking at the overall balance, as its 
recommendation resulted in such a high amount  being held on deposit
Its seen no persuasive  evidence that Mrs R was a vulnerable client
Mrs R has had a review  since  making this complaint,  and remains a client
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
I recognise that there are a great many issues on which Mrs G and Springfield  disagree, 
particularly concerning the advisors approach, what was discussed  and what  she told him 
about her attitude  to risk, circumstances and finances. I dont feel there is sufficient 
independent evidence about  some  of these issues to be sure as to what occured. 
But I dont feel this is necessary in order to assess the one central  issue of whether this 
advice was likely to have  been, on the balance of probabilities, suitable; and whether Mrs G 
was in a fully informed position  to make a decision  about whether to go ahead with the 
advice. On both counts I am satisfied this complaint should be upheld.
Firstly, I think the overall evidence indicates  that the advisor did not fully assess Mrs Gs 
financial situation. From what Ive read, some of her alleged income sources were not 
correct, such as the childrens pension money which was held in trust and therefore should  
not have been included  as part of the household income. Its also clear, in my view,  that her 
late husbands estate  had not been resolved, something which appears to have left Mrs G 
with significant  liabilities.  There is no evidence that the advisor explored this issue.  Clearly, 
this would have  been crucial to have got a full picture of her finances.
Overall, I found Mrs Gs evidence about the alleged inaccuracy of key recorded information  
from the value  of her house to £1,000 being saved  every month  persuasive. On balance, I 
am not satisfied the advisor  did a sufficiently thorough job in getting the bottom  of her very 
complex financial situation.
Ref: DRN27121533I also think the evidence,  including  the conversations between the adjudicator and Mrs G, 
indicate that Mrs G was not in a position  to fully understand her likely financial situation 
going forward, and that the advisor failed to recognise the picture was still too uncertain to 
make decisions  about such a large portion  of her capital.
That said,  I agree  with the adjudicator  that it would have been  reasonable to recommend she 
invest some  of her money in a suitably cautious risk product or products to try and deliver a 
better return than that available via a deposit  account.  I am not convinced  this should have 
been as much as £150,000 as this turns  out to have been significantly more than 50% of her 
assets after her late husbands estates liabilities  are taken into account.
But if she had been recommended to only take a small or cautious risk with this money  then 
only a modest portion  of the invested sum would have been at risk. I am therefore satisfied 
that the adjudicators proposed redress formula is fair and reasonable. Under  this formula, 
only around a quarter of the invested  sum would have been  in clearly risk-based assets like 
equities and property, with three quarters left in cash, guaranteed  bonds or other almost risk-
free assets.
Finally, I note that the recommended  investment exposed 85% of Mrs Rs invested  money  to 
significant risk via equities and property. I am satisfied  that this was far in excess  of what  
was justified either by her circumstances  or her likely objectives.  Further,  I do not think  this 
level of exposure was justified by her responses  to the various risk questions (even though I 
think one can only set very limited store on these answers given her lack of investment 
knowledge). 
Also, I can see no justification  for the advisor referring to her capacity for small losses  as a 
basis for recommending this investment.  In my view, an 85% exposure to equities and 
property posed  a far greater risk to Mrs Rs capital than small. In this context, I believe the 
advisors report completely failed  to explain that the recommended  investment posed a 
substantial risk to this large  portion  of Mrs Rs money, and therefore  she was not in a fully 
informed position  to decide whether to go ahead  with this recommendation.
I have considered Springfields argument about  the amount of money  Mrs R retained on 
deposit as a justification for this advice  but I do not accept  it, largely  for the reasons outlined  
above. I dont  believe the advisor  got to the bottom of how much capital she was likely to 
have left after this advice; nor do I think she was in a position to expose any of her money to 
significant risk of loss given how much uncertainty still surrounded her overall financial 
situation going forward. 
I have also considered Mrs Gs additional  concerns about Springfield and its advisor but I am 
satisfied that this financial redress represents a fair and reasonable resolution of her 
complaint overall.
Fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs G as close  to the 
position she would probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  advice.
I take the view that Mrs G would have  invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have  set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mrs G's circumstances  and objectives when she invested.
Ref: DRN27121534What Springfield should do
To compensate Mrs G fairly  it should:
Compare the performance of Mrs G's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. It should also pay interest  as set out below.
      Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs G in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest  awarded.
investment status benchmark from (start to (end additional
name date) date) interest
single 
investmentsurrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  it should use 
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Why this remedy is suitable
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs G wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private  Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income  total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
Ref: DRN27121535representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I consider that Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain  her investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mrs G into that position. It does not mean 
that Mrs G would  have invested  50% of her money  in a fixed rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker fund.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise 
that broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs G could have obtained from investments 
suited to her objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website  by
searching for quoted household interest rates  and then clicking on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest  & exchange  rates data / Quoted  household interest  rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which  can be 
found by following this link: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-  
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. Alternatively,  
just type compensation for investment complaints into the search  bar on our website:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Springfield  Financial  Services Limited to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2712153