K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) taken in 1995. Mr O 
says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Os case. Having  done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr O applied for the PPI when he applied for Visa and Mastercard  credit  cards.  Barclays has 
sent a copy of Mr Os application  form for the cards. Mr O signed  this application form, so I 
think its likely its contents reflected Mr Os situation and wishes at the time.
The application form has a separate Payment  Protection Plan  section. This has equally 
noticeable boxes  for Mr O to tick to say either  yes or no to PPI. So the form presents the 
PPI as something Mr O had a choice  about taking. On Mr Os form there is a tick in the yes 
box and the no box is blank. So I think Mr O chose to say yes to the PPI, knowing he 
couldve ticked no instead  if he didnt want the PPI.
So, taking into account everything Ive seen,  I think Barclays made  it clear  that Mr O didnt 
have to take the PPI, and he chose to take it.
Mr O has said he was given the form by Barclays branch staff who encouraged me to also 
apply for the payment protection to assist a successful application by ticking  the relevant box 
on the application . So Ive considered carefully whether what I have is enough  to show  that 
Barclays led Mr O to believe that taking  the PPI would help his credit card application.  
Ive nothing from the time of the sale itself that suggests Mr O was misled in the way he 
remembers  for example  nothing on the application  form makes me think  Barclays led Mr O 
to believe that taking PPI would help his application.  Apart from Mr Os recollections, I dont 
have anything else to make me think Barclays branch staff misled  Mr O in this way at the 
time. Also the sale took place over twenty  years before Mr O made his complaint to Barclays 
 so even if Mr O did speak to Barclays before applying for his credit card like he recalls, I 
wouldnt expect him, such  a long time afterwards, to vividly  recall  what was said exactly. 
Taking everything into account,  what I have isnt enough to persuade  me that Barclays most 
likely misled Mr P by telling him that taking the PPI would help his card application succeed. 
Also Im not persuaded  the use of tick boxes made Mr Os choice invalid  or the sale unfair, 
although I have  noted and considered what Mr O has said about that.
So, having  considered all that Mr O has said about what  happened when he took the PPI 
and everything else I have, on balance I still think Mr O took the PPI because  he wanted  it - 
and knew he had a choice about  taking  it. 
Ive considered and taken  into account  all Mr O has said about  having been given advice or 
being recommended  to buy the PPI. But I havent  seen  anything that makes me think 
Barclays advised Mr O the PPI was right for his own circumstances. Or anything that makes 
me think Barclays led Mr O to think it had taken his personal circumstances  into account and 
was giving him a personal recommendation to buy the PPI based on those circumstances. 
Ref: DRN24044562From what  Ive seen, the PPI was offered on the application form and it was left to Mr O to 
decide whether  it was right for him in his own personal circumstances.
So I think Barclays left it to Mr O to make the judgments about whether or not he might  need 
the benefit the PPI would pay, and whether or not there was anything in his circumstances 
that might  stop him making  a successful claim - and whether or not, in the light of all this, the 
PPI was something he should  take.  Also Ive already  explained that Ive not seen enough to 
make me think Barclays advised Mr O to take the PPI to help him get the card.
So, from what I have, I dont think Barclays offered to give Mr O advice about  the suitability 
of the PPI for his circumstances  I think  Barclays offered  the PPI on a non-advised basis.  
This means  Barclays didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr O. Instead, Barclays 
had to give Mr O enough information to enable  him to make an informed choice about  the 
PPI. This includes drawing to Mr Os attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations  and exclusions.
I dont know what information exactly Mr O was given  before the sale.  But the PPI was sold 
to him on his credit card application form, and I think Mr O wouldve relied primarily on that 
information. I dont  think the information  on the form was enough to draw  to Mr Os attention  
and highlight  the main provisions of the PPI and significant limitations and exclusions.
For example, as Mr O has said, there  were  exclusions he shouldve considered before taking 
the PPI. The form didnt give any details of these.  So I agree with Mr O when he says 
Barclays didnt give him all the information  it shouldve given him. And so Ive considered 
carefully below  what  difference  this mightve  made  to Mr Os decision to take the PPI.
As Ive explained above, what I have suggests Mr O chose to take the PPI. Also I think he 
chose to take it knowing it was cover  for the account against unemployment, accident, 
sickness and death  which is what the application  form told him. So I think  its reasonable 
to suppose that Mr O had some interest at the time in having that sort of cover.
Also, although Mr O wasnt given enough information about  them,  it doesnt look like he was 
affected by the exclusions  to or limits on the cover. For example, from what he has told us, 
Mr O didnt have health issues at the time of the sale - so he wouldnt have been affected by 
the limits  or exclusions for existing health issues. Likewise,  Mr O was employed full-time with 
two years service - so he wasnt  affected  at the time by any limits  or exclusions for short  
term employment (like terms requiring  at least a years continuous employment before a 
claim for unemployment can be made, for example).
So, based  on what I have,  Mr O wasnt affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt 
cover.
Also, based  on what hes told us about  his circumstances at the time, it looks  like the PPI 
couldve been useful  to Mr O. For a successful disability or unemployment  claim, the PPI 
would pay out for up to twelve  months  per claim  and Mr O has told us he wouldve  got less 
than six months sick pay from his employer and had savings worth less than three  months 
pay. So if Mr O lost his job or was too sick to work, the PPI couldve paid out for longer than 
his savings and work  benefits wouldve lasted  and it wouldve paid out in addition to those 
work benefits. Mr O has told us he had payment difficulties later after his employment status 
changed. But at the time of the sale, from what I have,  it looks like the PPI was affordable.
Ref: DRN24044563In the light of all Ive said above,  taking  everything  into account I dont think  having more or 
better information about the PPI at the time wouldve changed  Mr Os decision to take it. So, 
based on what I have,  I dont think Barclays failings made a difference in this instance. And I 
dont think Mr O has lost out as a result  of what Barclays did wrong  or failed to do.
Ive thought about everything Mr O has said, including  what  he has said about how we now 
only have a summary of the PPI terms, rather than full terms, to work from. But I havent 
seen anything that suggests  to me that what Ive said above would be different if the full PPI 
terms were available. I note that Mr Os address was printed  on the application  and he 
says it was sent to him without him asking for it. But I dont agree that this means  Barclays at 
the time had to give him advice about the PPI or tell him to get independent advice about it. 
And I dont  think it was unreasonable or unfair  that Barclays didnt do that.
Mr O has also said he was never  sent a certificate  and full terms and conditions werent 
supplied after the sale. But I think  Mr O probably was sent confirmation of and information 
about the PPI after the sale, as is usual in these  situations - so I dont agree that the sale 
itself was most likely  flawed in that respect. There may not be proof  of this now,  but I dont 
find that surprising  or unreasonable given  the time that has passed. I say this having taken 
into account what Mr O has said about Barclays still having a copy  of the credit agreement. 
But the fact some information is still available doesnt make me think its unreasonable  that 
everything isnt still available. And Barclays  not now being able to produce a PPI certificate 
isnt in my view persuasive evidence from which to conclude  that the PPI wasnt put in place.
So, having  considered Mr Os points, in the light of all Ive said above and for the reasons 
Ive given Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My comments above  are restricted  to 
those points and areas  that I consider most  important to the determination of this case, but 
Ive considered everything Mr O has told us and all the information he has given. Im grateful 
to Mr O for all his points and for his prompt and courteous responses to all our enquiries.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2404456