K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the interest rate on his mortgage with Mortgage Express (ME).
background
Mr F has a mortgage  now with Mortgage Express, since  it was taken over from another  
lender over ten years ago.
Since his discount  rate ended in 2010, Mr F has been charged MEs standard  variable rate 
(SVR). Mr F complains that the SVR is too high and that ME wont  give him access  to lower  
interest rates. He considers the rate unfair and has resulted in him being overcharged for his 
mortgage and having to pay too much to redeem it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. He said Mr Fs mortgage  had 
operated in line with the terms and conditions. Since Mr F moved on to the SVR in 2010, the 
rate had stayed  the same  apart from decreasing in 2016 and increasing in 2017 around the 
same time as changes  in the Bank of England base rate. He didnt think  ME had acted 
unfairly.
Mr F didnt  agree. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said ME had not 
given any good  reason  why its rates were so high. He was a mortgage  prisoner and, until he 
redeemed his mortgage earlier this year, trapped with a government owned lender which 
should have reflected that in the rates it charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F took his mortgage  out, and when it was taken over by ME, the lending  
environment when they took their mortgage  out was very different. Now, its much harder to 
get an interest only mortgage.  And, as a result, its harder  to move an interest  only mortgage 
to a new lender.  That made it difficult for Mr F to move his mortgage and so he considered  
himself trapped  with no choice but to pay MEs SVR  whereas if he was with another lender 
he might  have been able to access  lower  fixed or tracker rate products.
ME was one of the lenders that got into financial difficulty when the financial crisis  happened, 
and it was taken  over by the government. The government has explained  that, for legal 
reasons (to do with competition law and state aid), government owned lenders  including  
ME  are not permitted  to offer new interest  rate products such  as fixed  and discount  rates.
And, for the same reasons, ME is not allowed  to reduce its SVR below  the levels of SVR set 
by other  lenders in the market.
I dont think ME is acting  in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement  in not offering 
Mr F a new rate or lower SVR either. Mr Fs mortgage offer sets out that he would pay a 
discount rate until 2010 and thereafter  the SVR. Nothing in the mortgage offer or the 
mortgage terms say that Mr F would  be entitled  to another interest rate after that one 
expires.
Ref: DRN26593232Im aware, of course, from my knowledge of the mortgage market that its common  for 
borrowers to take a fixed or tracker rate product  and then, at or shortly before its expiry, 
take another rate rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats  with their existing lender; 
sometimes its with another lender. But as I say, theres nothing  in the mortgage agreement  
that says Mr Fs entitled to a new rate  and thats  also true of most other lenders mortgage 
agreements too. 
The rules  of mortgage regulation dont say that a lender must offer new interest rates, either. 
They say lenders must treat their borrowers fairly. And where  new rates  are available, there 
are rules  around whether its fair to restrict access to them. But theres nothing  in the rules 
that says new interest rates have to be made  available.
Mr F says he was promised new rates would be made available  to him when he took out the 
mortgage. But that was a long time ago. I think its likely there was a discussion about  future  
rates and  at the time  Mr F and the lender would have expected that future  interest rate 
products would be available, because the financial crisis and the nationalisation of ME 
couldnt have  been foreseen. But I also think its unlikely Mr F was given an unequivocal  
guarantee hed always  be eligible for new rates, and the documentation  as Ive said  
offers no such guarantee. And I dont think it relevant that Mr F says a field agent ME sent 
out ten years ago thought  it wasnt fair that he wasnt offered a new rate.
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing in the mortgage contract, 
that requires ME to offer new interest rates.  And, the government says, its under  a legal 
obligation not to do so, and not to reduce its SVR below market level.  MEs SVR, which has 
been below  5% throughout the period  covered by this complaint, is comparable  to the SVR 
rates (though not the introductory  rates) charged  by other lenders in the market. 
Its very unfortunate  that, through  no fault of his own and through  a series  of events entirely 
out of his control, Mr F ended up with a closed  book lender that doesnt offer new rates. But 
ME is the lender,  and legitimately so. Its not able to offer new interest rates  to any 
customers, including Mr F, or reduce its SVR to equivalent levels. Im mindful  that if ME were 
to offer new lower rates to some customers but not others, that could mean some customers 
were being  treated less favourably  than others  with similar characteristics  which in turn 
could potentially cause  unfairness.  But that isnt the case. All its other customers  are in the 
same position as Mr F was.
However, theres nothing  in Mr Fs mortgage agreement that would have prevented  or 
hindered him re-mortgaging elsewhere   an early  repayment charge, for example. Mr F 
redeemed his mortgage in 2018.  I dont know why he didnt do so earlier,  or move  it to 
another lender. Its possible it may not have been  practical for him to do so  but ME placed 
no barriers in his way. Indeed, it has an arrangement with an independent mortgage broker  
who can assist customers, free of charge, with moving their mortgage to another lender to 
access better rates if possible. Given the position  ME is in, I think thats a fair way of helping  
its customers.
The terms of the mortgage say that ME can vary the SVR to reflect changes in the Bank of 
England base rate. When it did so in 2016 and again in 2017, therefore, it was allowed  to do 
so by the terms and conditions.  So I dont  think those  changes were unfair.
Taking the facts  of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules  and my 
findings about MEs business model  and the level of its SVR, I dont think  I can fairly uphold  
this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN26593233Finally, Mr F complains  about the redemption figure he was asked to pay. The history of his 
mortgage shows that he paid the outstanding  balance at the time,  so he paid the right figure. 
The reason  his balance was higher than it was when he took the mortgage out is because of 
arrears and fees added to his loan around 2009   2011. 
Mr F had a decision  from another ombudsman about a similar complaint to this one in 2010.  
That ombudsman noted that Mr F had chosen  not to pay his mortgage for a time to try to 
force ME to resolve his complaint about  the interest rate. That meant he was charged  more 
interest on the unpaid  amounts. She thought  it was fair for ME to take the action it took at the 
time to deal with the resulting arrears, and to add its costs of doing so to the mortgage. Im 
not going to go over those matters again,  but they explain why the balance  went  up. 
Taking that into account, and my findings about  the interest rate Mr F was charged,  nothing 
Ive seen suggests that Mr F was asked to pay an unfair amount when he redeemed  the 
mortgage last year. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2659323