K821x#15complaint
Ms G says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 4 six-month instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Ms G between 
September 2014 and June 2016. This is a summary  of Ms Gs lending history from 
Mr Lender.
Loan Taken out RepaidAmount, 
£
1 09/12/2014 24/06/2015 450
2 24/06/2015 18/12/2015 500
3 18/12/2015 24/06/2016 600
4 24/06/2016 20/09/2016 650
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Gs complaint in part and thought loan 4 shouldnt have been 
given. Mr Lender disagreed so the complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN26753582I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Gs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that there was nothing to indicate  Mr Lender needed to do more  
when it approved loans 1 to 3. I think it carried out proportionate checks and I havent seen 
anything in the information it had that shouldve led it to make a different lending  decision. 
So I cant conclude Mr Lender  was wrong  to give loans 1 to 3 to Ms G.
Ive then looked at the overall  pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Ms G, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Gs case, I think that this point  was reached at loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender  ought  to have realised  Ms G was not managing  to repay  her 
loans sustainably. Ms G had been  indebted to Mr Lender for eighteen months, each 
time borrowing  again the same day as settling a previous loan. So Mr Lender ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Ms G was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying the previous loan was leaving  in her finances and that 
Ms Gs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Ms Gs first loan was for £450  and loan 4 was for £650. At this point Mr Lender  ought 
to have known  that Ms G was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Ms G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan 4 
was taken out 18 months after her first loan. And it was for larger amount. Ms G had 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Mr Lender over an 
extended period.  
I think that Ms G lost out because Mr Lender  provided loan 4 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Ms Gs indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN26753583giving  this loan was likely to have had negative implications on Ms Gs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  high-cost loans.
In response to the adjudicators recommendation, Mr Lender pointed  out that loan 4 only 
increased by £50 and the highest  repayment  decreased by around £14. It told us it had 
considered the other outstanding balances she disclosed in its affordability check  to ensure 
Ms G had sufficient disposable  income; and she told it she needed the money for car 
maintenance. It added  it has since declined more  than 6 other loan applications from Ms G.
Ive considered these  points  carefully  but they do not change  my conclusion.  Mr Lender  has 
focused on the pounds and pence affordability  of loan 4, but it hasnt explained  why 
the pattern  of lending itself didnt alert it that any further lending  was most likely to be 
unsustainable for Ms G. As Ive explained  in detail above, there was sufficient evidence  in 
the pattern  of lending to indicate that any further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable. 
Ms Gs ongoing use of high cost credit from Mr Lender over an 18-month period cant be 
described as being  for the short-term  time frame  it is supposed  to help people out for. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4, and Mr Lender should  put things right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms G paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
any information recorded about  loan 4 is adverse, so the entry  about  loan 4 should 
be removed from Ms Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms G a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Gs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Ms G compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.  
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2675358