K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Elevate Credit International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about eighteen  high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to           
Miss B from November 2016 onwards. Miss Bs last loan was provided in January  2018. 
Our adjudicator looked at Miss Bs case and that Miss B shouldnt have been provided with 
loans 4 to 18. Sunny  disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Miss B, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Miss B was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided her with loan four. 
I say this because  by this stage, Miss B was provided with a further loan even though  she 
already had three outstanding ones.  And the fourth  loan was for a larger  amount than the 
combined amount  of her previous three.  In my view, this ought to have shown Sunny that 
Ref: DRN28122102Miss B was struggling to manage her money and that she may well have been borrowing 
further in order  to make her repayments. I dont think  that the relatively  short period between  
loan seven being repaid  and loan eight being provided changes  this.
Sunny continued  lending  to Miss B even when this pattern was repeated and on many  
occasions where Miss B already had outstanding loans with Sunny to repay. In these 
circumstances, Sunny ought reasonably  to have realised that any further loans were more  
likely than not unsustainable for Miss B. 
Miss B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 4 to 18;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  relating to loans  4 and 5 from Miss Bs credit  file;
the number  of loans provided means that any information recorded  about loans 6 to 
18 on Miss Bs credit file is likely  to be adverse. So all reference to these loans 
should be removed  from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Miss B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020. 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2812210