K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the service he received after he made  a claim on an appliance 
insurance policy he had with Domestic & General Insurance Plc.
background
Mr As microwave was faulty, so he made a claim on his appliance insurance policy.  With 
Mr As agreement, on 4 April 2019,  D & G agreed to replace the microwave and arranged for 
a supplier to deliver  the new microwave to Mr A the next day.
Mr A then received an email from the supplier  confirming the delivery details.  At this point, 
he noticed the wrong model of microwave was due to be delivered. He contacted  D & G to 
notify it of this and the order was cancelled. Initially D & G couldnt tell him when the correct 
microwave would be delivered and that it would  take at least 48 hours for the request  to be 
put through.  However, eventually, D & G was able to confirm a delivery date of 7 April 2019.
Mr A was unhappy that D & G had ordered the wrong microwave,  which delayed him 
receiving the replacement microwave by a further two days. Hes also unhappy with the 
general level of service he received from D & Gs representatives on 5 April 2019, the 
attitude of some of its staff and that he had to spend  time making  and following up  calls 
on that day.
D & G apologised for what went wrong and offered Mr A compensation in the sum of £30. 
Mr A doesnt  think that fairly reflects the trouble and upset he experienced. He says £100 is 
a fairer amount.  So, he complained to us.
Our investigator didnt  think D & G had to do anything more,  so he didnt uphold  Mr As 
complaint. Mr A disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
D & G accept that it arranged for the wrong microwave  to be delivered. It also agrees that 
the level of service it provided Mr A wasnt good enough. Ive considered the impact  this had 
on Mr A. 
Having listened  to recordings of the calls Mr A had with D & Gs representatives, I can hear 
that Mr A is, understandably, frustrated by what  he was being told and by a reluctance to 
initially try to help him. It did eventually  arrange for the correct model of microwave  to be 
delivered to him, but this was a result of Mr As perseverance - and after hed been engaged 
in several phone calls with different representatives. In total Mr A was on the phone  for 
around 1.5 hours on 5 April 2019 trying to sort this issue  out. 
So, Im satisfied he experienced  some trouble and upset as a result of what D & G did wrong  
 particularly as he and his family were without the new microwave  for two days longer than 
they needed to be. However,  D & G has apologised, and I think  its offer of £30 fairly  reflects  
the level of trouble and upset experienced. 
Ref: DRN24520352When making this finding, Ive considered  what Mr A has told us about his wife arranging to 
take time off work on the day the microwave was originally meant  to be delivered,  that he 
was unable to start work until 10am and his working  day was interrupted by making several 
calls to D &G. However, Mr A says during the calls he had with D & G on 5 April 2019  that 
he was the one whod taken time off work to be at home for the delivery. So, I think its more 
likely that Mr A was at home on 5 April 2019  as thats what he said at the time. And from 
what he tells us he was able to do some work  albeit his day was interrupted. So, whilst I 
accept that this wouldve inconvenienced  him, overall, Im satisfied D & Gs offer is fair and 
reasonable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2452035