K822xcomplaint
Miss O complains  that Lloyds Bank plc allowed a third party to open an account in her name.  
She complains too that Lloyds didnt do enough to investigate what had happened  or to 
close the account.
background 
Miss O has had a personal account with Lloyds Bank for some. Then,  in February 2018, she 
began to receive information from Lloyds about a business account that had been  set up in 
her name. Miss O has never had her own business and she was concerned  that someone 
had opened this account fraudulently, using her details. She phoned  Lloyds and called into 
branch but didnt feel the bank was doing  enough  to help.  
Miss O contacted our service and Lloyds looked into what had happened in more detail. It 
said a third party had tried to access Miss Os personal account in January 2018 but failed to 
do so; they hadnt passed  the banks security. It appeared  that this third party  had then used 
Miss Os personal details to open  a business account in Miss Os name.  Lloyds closed the 
business account and offered Miss O £500  for the inconvenience caused. The account 
wasnt used. 
Miss O was unhappy with the banks response. She didnt think  it had done  enough  to 
protect her account from fraud, and she was unhappy  with the way it responded when she 
complained. She wanted Lloyds to pay more  compensation in light of everything shed been 
through. 
Our investigator considered what Miss O had said, but thought that it had done enough to 
resolve her complaint.  He acknowledged that Miss O had suffered distress  and had been  put 
to inconvenience  as a result of what had happened, but noted that this was largely as a 
result of the actions of fraudsters, not the bank. He thought that the banks offer of £500 was 
fair in the circumstances. 
Miss O didnt  accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review  
them.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to the same  overall  
conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar  reasons. 
For completeness, Ill deal briefly with our powers to consider Miss Os complaint.  Unless a 
bank is seeking  or has sought payment of a debt, we cant usually deal with a complaint that 
an account has been opened  fraudulently. Thats because the person bringing the complaint 
isnt doing so as a customer  of the bank  on the contrary, the complaint is that they are not 
the customer. In this case, however, Miss O was a customer (in her personal capacity), and I 
think it likely  that it was that relationship that led to the attempt to open the business account. 
The position  might have been  different if, for example, Miss O had no relationship  at all with 
Lloyds. 
I must therefore consider what Lloyds did in this case. As the investigator noted, Lloyds does 
 in common with other  banks  have security systems in place to help prevent fraud.  And it 
Ref: DRN23571712seems they were effective  when  someone  tried to access Miss Os personal  account. But 
they can never be entirely secure. There will, unfortunately,  be occasions like this one when  
an account is opened without the authority  or knowledge of the person named on the 
account. If that happens, that person wont generally  be liable for any transactions  carried  
out on the account. 
However, Lloyds acknowledges that, once  Miss O told it that she hadnt opened the 
business account, it should have  acted more quickly to close  it and to explain what it had 
done. It was some two months before it did that; in that time,  Miss O wouldnt have known 
whether fraudsters were  able to operate the account and would no doubt  have  felt 
vulnerable. 
Miss O says too that she felt she was being  blamed  for what had happened  and that the 
bank wasnt taking enough responsibility.  I dont  think Lloyds was blaming her; rather, it was 
seeking to help her identify  steps  that she might take to protect herself from fraud.  Thats not 
unreasonable, as some  types of fraud can only be defended with the help of customers. 
I do think however that Lloyds response here was too slow and  initially at least  
inadequate. It should have closed the business  account much sooner and told Miss O what it 
was doing. It has recognised  this though, and I think its offer of £500 in recognition  of that is 
fair in the circumstances. I shant be recommending a higher award;  for the avoidance of any 
doubt, however,  I shall make a formal award  of that amount  on the assumption  that it 
hasnt been paid already.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Miss Os complaint,  Lloyds  Bank plc 
should pay her £500.  Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Moss O to accept  or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2357171