K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Bank  of Scotland plc wrongly debited his account with over £4,500  in 
cash machine withdrawals and card payments  over a ten day period in September  2017. 
The bank trades in this case under its Halifax brand. 
background
Mr V had a bank card linked to his Halifax account.  For most of the time the disputed 
transactions were  taking  place he was out of the UK, but had that card in his possession. He 
says he didnt use the account  in that time and, apart from the disputed transactions, there  
were no card payments  or withdrawals.
When he returned to the UK, Mr V says he received  a letter  from Halifax to tell him that his 
account had exceeded his agreed  overdraft limit.   
Mr V contacted Halifax, which told him that, on 5 September, a new card had been  ordered 
by telephone and a PIN reminder  the following day. Both were sent to Mr Vs home address 
and then used  between 11 and 21 September. Mr V was out of the country between  13 and 
19 September. 
Mr V said that he hadnt ordered the replacement card or the PIN reminder  and hadnt  
received either. He said too that he hadnt made the disputed transactions or let anyone else 
make them. Halifax didnt  accept that. It said that whoever had ordered the card and PIN 
reminder had been  able to answer security  questions  and to provide specific  information  
about recent activity  on the account. 
In addition, the card had been blocked  on 14 September. The person who called the bank  to 
release the block  was again able to answer security questions, which  included  information 
about a credit card with a different bank. 
Mr V referred his complaint to this service, and one of our investigators  considered  it. Whilst 
she didnt believe that Mr V made the various calls himself, she believed  that, given the 
amount of information  available to the caller, he must have had some involvement.  She 
didnt recommend that Halifax refund  the disputed transactions. 
Mr V didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that an ombudsman review  the case.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr Vs argument here is relatively straightforward. He says that someone  else was able to 
impersonate him sufficiently well to persuade the bank to provide a new debit  card and PIN 
reminder and to send  it to his address. They were then able to obtain both and use them 
without his knowledge. I need  to consider,  therefore, how likely that was.
Having listened  to recordings of the calls to the bank, the investigator wasnt  persuaded that 
they were made by Mr V, although  that was how he was addressed. She did note however 
that the caller  had sufficient information to pass the banks automated systems. The caller 
was also able to provide  specific information about  the account activity,  indicating they knew  
not only about Mr V but also about the account itself. They were able to pass security on at 
Ref: DRN21521622least three separate occasions  when  ordering the card; when  ordering the PIN reminder 
and when unblocking the card. 
I agree  with the investigator that its most  unlikely  that anyone would have been able to order 
a new card and PIN reminder (and later to unblock  the card)  unless Mr V had given them 
permission to do so. At the very least, they must  have had largely  free access to his account. 
But even if I reached  a different conclusion about the ordering  of the card and PIN, I would 
have to consider  what happened next. Both the card and PIN notification were sent to Mr Vs 
address, on different dates. I think its very unlikely that both were intercepted before they 
arrived. Its more likely  than not that both were  delivered safely, before Mr V went away. 
Whoever ordered them must have been confident that they would be able to retrieve  them. 
On balance, therefore, I think it more likely than not that Mr V either made the transactions  
himself or allowed someone else to do so. Given that he had his own card, I think he 
probably allowed  someone else to use the second. The alternative  explanation  that a third 
party was able, three times, to impersonate him and then to obtain both the card and PIN 
notification from his house  seems  to me to be very unlikely.
Mr V has explained that he was in dispute  with a business partner (involved in another 
business he runs).  Ive considered carefully whether that might explain the disputed 
transactions. Mr V is however adamant that only he had access  to his account. And, even if 
his business partner had managed to access information to enable him to order  the card and 
PIN notification, I cannot see how he could have collected both from Mr Vs home without his 
knowledge or consent. 
If, as Mr V appears  to suggest, the disputed transactions were linked to his business partner, 
it may be more appropriate for him to pursue recovery against that individual. But, in all the 
circumstances, I dont  believe it would  be fair to require the bank to reimburse  Mr V.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank plc to do anything more  to resolve Mr Vs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2152162