K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the handling of his student  loan deferment  application  by Link 
Financial Outsourcing  Limited (LFO).
background
Mr S says since  graduating  in 2000  hes made annual applications to defer his student loan 
repayments. He says hes consistently sent the same information and hes successfully 
deferred his repayments each year. But he says his deferment application was wrongly  
rejected for the year 2016/17.    
Mr S also says LFO hasnt  upheld his complaint and its refused to engage with the 
substance of it. 
LFO says a third party organisation, which Ill call Business A, has sole responsibility for 
processing student loan deferment  applications,  in accordance  with Government regulations. 
It says it has no input  or influence over this process. And it says it isnt responsible  for any 
decisions made by Business A regarding a customers deferment application.
LFO also says when Mr S made his deferment application in May 2016  he didnt provide any 
supporting evidence that demonstrated his income  for the previous three  calendar  months.  It 
says this information is required by his loan agreement, its indicated  on the deferment form 
and its specified  in the regulations set by the Department for Education.  It says as a 
consequence Business A correctly marked his deferment application as incomplete on 18 
May 2016. And it says, in accordance with the deferment process, Business A will also have 
written to Mr S to explain  its decision and the additional information  it required to accept his 
deferment application. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He recommended  all arrears  
should be removed  from Mr Ss account  and any information about  them  should be removed 
from his credit file. The adjudicator also recommended that LFO should  pay Mr S £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hed been  caused. 
LFO disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said Mr S failed to provide the 
documentation Business A required in support of his deferment application in the required 
timescale of the deferment process as outlined in the Education  (Student  Loans) 
Regulations 1998. It said he provided  payslips  which contained no figures to confirm his 
income. And it said it wasnt reasonable for Mr S to believe  this would be acceptable  as it 
was his responsibility to provide Business A with adequate supporting documentation with 
his deferment  application form.
LFO also said Business  A is solely responsible for the processing of deferment applications 
and Business A decides if the documentation  provided by an applicant is acceptable or not. 
And it said it doesnt believe its reasonable to hold LFO responsible for any perceived 
failings in the processing of Mr Ss deferment  application when it didnt process it.    
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
I recently issued my provisional  findings on this complaint. I said I could see the basis of the 
decision not to grant  a deferment of Mr Ss student loan repayments for the year 2016/17 
Ref: DRN27915992was that he hadnt provided the information needed to support his application in the required 
timescale.  
I could also see the process for the deferment  of student loans is governed by the Statutory 
Regulations LFOs referred  to. I looked  carefully at these Regulations and I was satisfied 
they provide for decisions about  student  loans, including deferment decisions, to be made by 
Business A, rather than by LFO as the loan administrator. For this reason, I concluded  the 
decision not to grant  Mr Ss deferment decision was made by Business A and not by LFO. 
So, I said this means it wouldnt be fair for me to hold LFO responsible  for this decision. And 
it also means it isnt necessary or appropriate  for me to comment  on the merits of Business  
As decision about this matter.
I hadnt seen any information indicating thered been  any failure in the administration  of      
Mr Ss student loan by LFO.
So, in these circumstances,  I was minded to conclude I couldnt fairly and reasonably uphold 
his complaint.   
This was different  from the investigators  opinion. So, I invited  both parties to comment and 
provide any additional evidence for me to consider. 
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Mr S says he supplied supporting information for his 
income. He says payslips  were blank in the respective boxes for monthly income  because  
there was no income for those months. And he says the payslips were  correct then and are 
still correct now.
Mr S also says LFO cant  pass responsibility for the assessment of his deferment application 
to Business A, then pursue an objection to it, but have no responsibility for ensuring  the 
decision Business  As taken is correct. And he says if Business A makes  a wrong decision 
and LFO doesnt correct  it, thats  a failure  of administration  by LFO that falls under the remit 
of this service.
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Ss comments. But Im satisfied the decision not to 
grant his deferment  application was made by Business A, not by LFO. And its clear from the 
Statutory Regulations  governing student  loans, referred to in my provisional decision that 
deferment decisions are solely  a matter for Business A. 
This means  LFO doesnt have the power  to correct decisions about such  matters made by 
Business A. And consequently it means I cant fairly and reasonably uphold Mr Ss 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint against  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited.
Ref: DRN27915993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  22 June 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN27915994copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about the handling of his student loan deferment application  by Link Financial  
Outsourcing Limited (LFO).
background
Mr S says since graduating in 2000 hes made annual applications to defer his student  loan 
repayments. He says hes consistently  sent the same information  and hes successfully deferred his 
repayments each year. But he says his deferment application was wrongly rejected  for the year 
2016/17.    
Mr S also says LFO hasnt  upheld his complaint  and its refused to engage with the substance of it. 
LFO says a third party  organisation,  which  Ill call Business A, has sole responsibility for processing 
student loan deferment applications, in accordance with Government regulations. It says it has no 
input or influence over this process. And it says it isnt responsible for any decisions made by 
Business A regarding  a customers  deferment  application.
LFO also says when Mr S made his deferment  application in May 2016 he didnt  provide any 
supporting evidence that demonstrated  his income  for the previous three calendar months. It says this 
information is required by his loan agreement, its indicated on the deferment form and its specified in 
the regulations  set by the Department for Education. It says as a consequence Business A correctly 
marked his deferment  application as incomplete on 18 May 2016.  And it says, in accordance  with the 
deferment process, Business A will also have written to Mr S to explain its decision  and the additional 
information it required to accept his deferment application. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  He recommended all arrears  should  be 
removed from Mr Ss account and any information about them  should be removed from his credit  file. 
The adjudicator also recommended that LFO should pay Mr S £100 compensation  for the distress 
and inconvenience hed been caused. 
LFO disagreed with the investigators conclusions. It said Mr S failed to provide the documentation  
Business A required in support of his deferment  application in the required timescale  of the deferment  
process as outlined in the Education (Student  Loans) Regulations 1998. It said he provided  payslips 
which contained no figures to confirm his income. And it said it wasnt reasonable for Mr S to believe 
this would  be acceptable as it was his responsibility to provide Business  A with adequate  supporting 
documentation with his deferment application  form.
LFO also said Business  A is solely responsible for the processing of deferment  applications and 
Business A decides if the documentation  provided  by an applicant is acceptable or not. And it said it 
doesnt believe its reasonable  to hold LFO responsible  for any perceived  failings in the processing of 
Mr Ss deferment  application when it didnt  process it.    
So, the matters been referred  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN27915995I see the basis of the decision not to grant a deferment of Mr Ss student loan repayments for the year 
2016/17 was that he hadnt provided the information needed to support  his application  in the required 
timescale.  
I also see the process for the deferment of student  loans is governed  by the Statutory  Regulations 
LFOs referred to. Ive looked  carefully  at these Regulations and Im satisfied they provide for 
decisions about student loans, including  deferment decisions,  to be made by Business A, rather  than 
by LFO as the loan administrator. For this reason, the decision not to grant Mr Ss deferment  decision 
was made by Business  A and not by LFO. 
So, this means it wouldnt be fair for me to hold LFO responsible for this decision. And it also means it 
isnt necessary or appropriate for me to comment here on the merits  of Business As decision  about 
this matter.
I havent seen any information indicating  theres been any failure in the administration  of    Mr Ss 
student loan by LFO. So, in these circumstances, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold his complaint.    
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above but subject to both parties  responses to this provisional decision Im 
currently minded  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint against Link Financial Outsourcing  Limited.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2791599