K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the delays, trouble and inconvenience and poor customer service he 
experienced when applying to Barclays Bank  UK PLC for a re-mortgage. 
To resolve  his complaint  he wants compensation, payment  of unnecessary  legal costs  and a 
refund of Barclays product fee.
background
Mr G says that on 22 April 2018 he applied to Barclays to remortgage  his leasehold flat with 
a fixed interest product  and additional  money for a kitchen and building  work. His application 
was finally  approved on 15 October 2018,  some six months later. He complains of delays 
and poor customer service by Barclays.
He had to postpone the works he planned  to carry out on his property. He suffered the 
inconvenience and stress of having to make  numerous calls to Barclays in an attempt to get 
the matter to proceed, and he incurred  an additional  £80 per month  as a result  of his existing 
mortgage switching  to the standard  variable rate. He also had to pay legal fees of £650.95 
for an extension of his lease which  then wasnt needed or required for the mortgage.
On his complaint  to Barclays  it said that his solicitors  were applying to extend the term of the 
lease. They had sent Barclays a document relating to this but it wasnt  scanned  into 
Barclays system  in good time, causing delay.
Barclays accepted  its service had been  poor and that Mr G had had to make several 
telephone calls to chase up the progress  of his application. Barclays said it understood this 
had been frustrating for Mr G and it apologised for the delay  and inconvenience  caused. It 
had taken into consideration  all his comments with regard  to the poor service  hed been 
given and the number of telephone calls hed had to make. 
Barclays had credited £300 to Mr Gs bank account as compensation for the delays, distress 
and inconvenience  caused. It later paid him an additional £210 for three  months mortgage 
payments.
Mr G wasnt happy and brought  his complaint to this service. Our investigator  said that after 
Mr Gs application was agreed in principle, Barclays had made  arrangements  for a valuation. 
On 12 July 2018 it received the valuers report which requested that the term of the lease be 
extended as the remaining 75 year term was too short.  
When Mr Gs solicitor queried  this, Barclays queried it with the valuers on 27 July 2018. 
However Barclays records showed that having not received a sufficient response from the 
valuer, it decided to go ahead with Mr Gs application on the existing term of 75 years. 
Mr Gs solicitor was informed of this on 10 August 2018.
However the investigator wasnt sure Mr Gs solicitor had notified  him of the application 
approval, since hed provided information to show he applied for a term extension  in 
September 2018. Had his solicitor informed him in August  that a term extension was no 
longer needed,  he wouldnt have had to apply for it. This wouldve saved him time and 
money.
Ref: DRN27095522So the investigator couldnt hold Barclays responsible for the cost of extending the lease. 
Barclays had done what the investigator would have expected it to do, by informing Mr Gs 
solicitor of the approval.
In addition to the delay  caused by the lease term, additional queries arose. When  Barclays  
informed Mr Gs solicitor  that the application was approved, the solicitor raised a query on 
20 August 2018,  over the figure quoted. Barclays  had quoted  the remaining term as 76 years 
instead of 75 years. Barclays explained that this had happened because  it was the figure 
given in the valuation report, which was an error.
Mr Gs solicitor asked  for further investigation.  As a result, Mr Gs application was sent to the 
completion escalation team for query, on 11 September 2018. This caused the application  
to be further delayed, which could have been  avoided had the error with the figures not been  
made. Once the figure relating to the term remaining on the lease had been confirmed as 75 
years, Mr Gs application was finally approved on 22 September 2018.
The investigator felt that both Barclays  and Mr Gs solicitor shared responsibility for the 
application being delayed. Although Barclays made  a typing error with the figures she 
thought it gave adequate  explanation as to why this happened, yet the solicitor chose to 
pursue further  enquiry unnecessarily.
When considering  the delays  to Mr Gs application,  the investigator also noted that he had 
contacted Barclays  on 28 September  2018, to change  the amount he wanted to borrow. This 
was accepted and processed by Barclays. This change  meant  the application was eventually  
completed on 4 October 2018. 
The investigator felt there  had been a fair and reasonable term remaining on the lease which  
should have been considered by Barclays. If this had happened, the application would have 
been approved  sooner.
In view of Barclays joint role in the delay to Mr Gs application, the investigator 
recommended it pay compensation of £300.
On the issue of customer service, the investigator had seen that Mr G had invested much 
time in making calls to Barclays  in order to get an update,  or seek  clarification on the 
progress of his application. Shed listened to the calls hed made and felt there had been  
multiple instances where his questions werent answered or he was given conflicting  
information. Where Barclays agreed  it hadnt  provided the customer service to be expected, 
it paid Mr G £510. The investigator felt this was reasonable  considering  the service he 
received.
The investigator had also considered how the delays impacted Mr G financially and the 
home improvements, for which the loan was intended. Hed had to take time off work  to 
arrange the extension of the lease, which had resulted in loss of wages. Hed also had to 
cancel building  work scheduled  to his property owing to the uncertainty, which had 
inconvenienced him. Owing to this, Mr G said the whole process had caused  him a great 
deal of stress, which he didnt feel Barclays had considered. The investigator  agreed that 
more consideration  should be given towards the impact on Mr G and recommended 
Barclays pay him £100 compensation, making £400  in addition to the £510  already paid.
However the investigator didnt agree Barclays should have to pay the higher interest rate on 
Mr Gs existing mortgage. A remortgage application could be a detailed and sometimes  a 
Ref: DRN27095523complex process. As there  were  no guarantees on how long this process could take, or if it 
would be successful, the likelihood of his remaining  with the current  lender would always 
need to be considered by Mr G. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at the case.
He said Barclays customer service was poor and the way it handled his complaint was 
totally unsatisfactory. He made countless  phone  calls. Had Barclays  carried out its duty in an 
effective and efficient  way then this should  have been resolved at the first opportunity.
However, Barclays put him in a position throughout the summer where he had to make an 
unprecedented amount of phone  calls and most  of the conversations  with Barclays were 
either inaccurate or unsatisfactory.
He made  several  complaints to Barclays  and it failed poorly  with its customer  service. 
Barclays offer of compensation wasnt sufficient in relation to what  he had experienced.
Hed applied  for the lease  extension on 14 August  2018 not in September. Hed engaged 
solicitors on or before 14 August. The solicitors appointed by Barclays said they wouldnt 
provide a mortgage because the term was under  85 years.  Barclays employed them and 
was vicariously liable for what  happened.
Barclays didnt inform  his solicitors that the application was approved. Those  solicitors  were 
Barclays-owned. Before 14 August he made  many  calls to Barclays but nobody  informed 
him that it had approved his mortgage application.
The impact  of the delays was great.  He was deprived of money as the mortgage that was 
taken out had a £10,000  home improvement loan and building work in the kitchen was taken 
out in the summer and he was left in a difficult position throughout the summer.  
Barclays offered the money up to and including  2 August. However  hed raised a new 
complaint over the phone  and in writing  and Barclays had failed to respond to this. It had 
failed to offer any further compensation even though its mistakes continued after 2 August.
Mr G said the investigator hadnt  been  convinced Barclays  should cover the cost of the 
higher interest  paid to his existing lender. However Barclays letter  of 2 August said it had 
compensated him with £210 as a gesture of goodwill and it acknowledged that he had to pay 
higher interest  with his current mortgage  provider  owing to the delays caused by
Barclays.
Barclays couldnt blame the solicitors it had employed to carry out its conveyancing 
transactions. It said that informing its solicitor during mid-August that the lease  extension  
wasnt required was sufficient. But he was in constant communication over the telephone  in 
relation to the requirements. 
He instructed his own solicitors for a lease extension and Barclays was responsible for this.
The compensation recommended by the investigator didnt reflect the impact of the pain, 
suffering, time and effort and the inconvenience  of not receiving the additional funds to carry 
out the building work  in the kitchen. He would like the compensation to be increased to 
reflect the fact that Barclays and the solicitors had been wholly or partly responsible for his 
lease extension.
Ref: DRN27095524my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays file notes  show that on 10 August it received a response from the valuer  confirming 
he had valued  the property based  on a 75-year remaining  term. Barclays was therefore  
happy to proceed  and wrote to the solicitors confirming this. However  the notes don't say 
which solicitors are referred to. Mr G says it wasn't his solicitors  B Ltd but another firm of 
solicitors, O Legal, who had been  instructed by, and were acting for, Barclays not him. 
Barclays telling its own solicitors that it was happy  to proceed with 75 years didnt constitute  
telling Mr G that. Having  not been told, he proceeded to instruct  his own solicitors  to proceed 
with the lease extension at a cost of £650.95  and he considers Barclays  should pay this.
I therefore asked  Barclays to justify its assertion that it had notified Mr G by telling O Ltd. It 
replied as follows:
It was a feature  of the mortgage that borrowers  could availthem  selves  of a free legal 
service using approved solicitors  paid by Barclays.
The mortgage  application summary  report generated by Barclays system confirms that 
when he made his online application,  Mr G had answered yes in response  to this. The 
report records: free legals taken and the solicitors identified were  O Ltd.
Accordingly the mortgage offer dated 8 May 2018 stated: You will benefit from a free 
legal service using  approved  Solicitors  paid for by the Bank and a free valuation. 
Barclays has supplied a copy  of a letter from O Legal to Mr G dated 15 May 2018: 
Further to our recent correspondence regarding your mortgage, we note that we have not 
yet received the following  items from you:
 Mortgage  Deed
 Questionnaire Authority
 Online  Questionnaire
Please return these documents at your earliest  convenience  in order  to enable us to proceed 
with your mortgage.
The quickest and easiest  way to complete your Remortgage is through  the O Legal
Portal (compatible with all mobile devices).  Your Portal  Activation Code is [.].
.
Through the Portal you will be able to:
Receive updates, provide information and track the progress of your Remortgage
See estimated  timescales and any information that is outstanding
Ask us questions relating to your Remortgage securely and directly and see a full
record of all our Portal  Mail conversations
Upload any documents we may ask for to reduce postage  delays and costs
View or download copies of various  documents  and letters  for your records
Print a new copy of your Mortgage  Deed
Give instructions on how to proceed with any Early Redemption Charges on your
existing lending
Confirm you are happy  with the proposed completion date
Ref: DRN27095525Confirm that the figures  shown  on your completion statement are as you expected
Make  secure online payments
If you are unable to complete the information  online, please contact us on [] and we will 
assist you with logging  on the O Legal Portal (please have your Activation and Security code 
to hand as you will need this to activate  your account).
I note that Mr G didnt, when he received the first mortgage offer dated 8 May 2018, protest 
that he hadnt asked for the free legal services.  Nor, when he received the letter  of 
15 May 2018, did he protest  that he didnt wish O Ltd to act for him despite having accepted 
this in his application. He didnt say that he would  instruct his own solicitors in connection 
with the remortgage. And the invoice dated 10 September 2018 from B Ltd is concerned only 
with the extension of the lease term: it says nothing about the remortgage. 
On this evidence  I conclude that O Ltd was acting for Mr G in connection with the 
remortgage. It follows from this that when Barclays notified O Ltd that it was content to 
proceed with a 75-year  term, this constituted  notice  to Mr G. So I dont consider Barclays 
should be held responsible for the fees of B Ltd.
Mr G says Barclays offer was up to and including 2 August. But hed raised a new complaint 
over the phone and in writing and Barclays had failed to respond to this. It had failed to offer 
any further compensation even though  its mistakes continued after 2 August. However I can 
only look into the complaints covered by Barclays final response dated 17 July and already 
referred to this service.  If Mr G seeks further  compensation  in respect of subsequent failures 
by Barclays, he will need to make  a further complaint. 
In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the investigators  recommendations 
with regard to the compensation  to be paid by Barclays, namely £400 in addition  to the £510 
already paid.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr G 
£400 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its part in the delays and the stress 
and anxiety caused to him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2709552