K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains for herself and on behalf of the estate of her late husband, about the 
investment advice they received from HSBC  UK Bank Plc was unsuitable  for them.
She is being represented by a claims management company (CMC), which  says that: 
they were advised to invest too much of their money, which   did not leave them 
with a suitable cash reserve.
these investments were too risky for them. The investments guaranteed  return of 
their capital  and they knew  that, until maturity, their underlying  values could fluctuate. 
However, these investments were exposed to unsuitably high levels of risk that 
created the prospect of a nil return on their investments and/or affected  the prospect 
of growth in the investments.  The unsuitable  risks were  also in the context of 
inflation.
they were inexperienced investors and the investments were too complex  for them.
background
Mrs A and her late husband  held £23,000 in savings which Mrs As husband  had received as 
compensation. They had been  advised by HSBC  in 1999 to invest £18,000 in capital 
protected ISAs.  In 2005 they received £18,034.28  back upon  maturity. 
At the time they were  both in their 50s. Due to length of time that has passed  since  the 
investment commenced,  HSBC doesnt hold any information about the circumstances 
surrounding its advice.  However, Mrs A has told us at the time of investing  she wasnt 
working but her husband was earning £12,000 a year and they held around £5,000 in cash 
reserve after investing £18,000.  
Our investigator thought the advice  was suitable.  She said,  in brief;
they were left with five months worth  income after investing  £18,000 so they didnt invest 
too much  of their money
the return was linked to the growth  of FTSE Eurotop 100 index, so any growth  made by 
the index was added to the original investment and that there was a likelihood  that they 
would only get back what they invested should  the index fall. This also offered 
diversification. 
they werent prepared  to risk their capital but were looking for capital  growth. A product 
which guaranteed their capital and provided the potential for capital  growth linked to an 
index was in line with these objectives  and seemed suitable  for them
The CMC disagreed, saying that they consider the investigators view reasonable as the 
product recommended  was suitable,  however the amount of money  they were advised  to 
invest was too high. This was because Mrs As husband was in poor health and they had a 
gross income of £1,000 per month, so investing  80% of their savings was unsuitable. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
Ref: DRN22110262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs As complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment  to her but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Both sides agree that Mrs A and her late husband  received  investment advice. The financial 
advisor giving  that advice  had a responsibility to make sure that any recommendations they 
made were suitable taking  both of their circumstances and needs into account.  Thats  what 
Im now looking at.
The CMC representing  Mrs A hasnt been able to provide  any documentation from the time 
of sale, nor has HSBC. Thats not surprising given  how long ago everything  happened. 
Where the evidence is missing or incomplete, as it is here,  Im required to decide matters on 
the balance of probabilities. In other words, on what I consider most likely to have happened.
The information Ive seen comes from HSBC  it was able to send us the product literature  
and the rest comes  from a questionnaire  that Mrs A filled out when she complained  that the 
advice she was given  was unsuitable. The questionnaire wasnt,  in other words, filled out 
when the advice was originally given.  
Based on the very limited  information available about what  the consumers were after at the 
time, Im not persuaded the product HSBC recommended was unsuitable. I say this 
because:
I think its likely the consumers were  after an investment product with a capital  
guarantee
The product  explained  in fairly clear terms how a return would be generated, and 
gave three options to illustrate the potential return. I therefore think  it was sufficiently 
clear for the consumers to understand what they were  investing in, and what  they 
might get back
The product  had a reasonable chance of generating  a better return  then equivalent 
fixed rate accounts at the time, but without  requiring  the consumers to risk their 
capital
Ive considered the CMCs point that Mrs A and her late husband  were  advised to invest  too 
much of their money. But Im not persuaded thats  the case. 
I say this firstly because I have no evidence  from the time to show what was discussed  with 
the adviser, and what financials were  disclosed.  And secondly, I dont consider over 5 
months emergency fund to be unsuitable.  The consumers were both in employment, and 
were evidently happy  to tie up their money for a period of time (they held the investment to 
maturity). I think  it was reasonable for the adviser  to conclude, at the time, that an 
emergency fund able to cover  at least 5 months  worth of expenses  was suitable. 
In any event, the brochure is clear  that it would've been possible for Mrs A and her late 
husband to withdraw  from the investment early if necessary. 
Ref: DRN22110263my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2211026