K820x#14Complaint
Mr G says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
In 1998, Mr G applied  for a mortgage  with Nationwide. Its unclear exactly  when but, at 
around the same time, Nationwide also sold him PPI to designed to protect his monthly 
repayments if he couldnt work because of disability or unemployment. The policy was 
amended a few weeks later to cover unemployment  only, and the premium was reduced 
accordingly.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr G didnt agree, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive carefully considered  Mr Gs comments about the choices he was, or wasnt, given during 
the sale. But Im mindful that the PPI was sold more than 20 years ago  in my view making  
it less likely hed be able to accurately  recall  any discussions that might have taken place at 
the time.
Neither partys been able to provide much by way of paperwork from the sale.  And thats not 
surprising considering how much times passed both since then and since  the mortgage  
ended and the PPI was cancelled.
I understand if Mr Gs frustrated at the lack of evidence supporting  Nationwides position. 
But, equally,  there just isnt enough evidence to support what Mr G says either. In the 
absence of any persuasive evidence to show otherwise, I see no reason to consider that 
Mr G wasnt aware  of the PPI at the time or that he didnt choose to take it out knowing it 
was optional.
From experience of how it sold PPI generally,  and from the available information,  I dont 
consider it likely that Nationwide formally recommended the PPI to Mr G. That still meant  
Nationwide had to give him clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI, so that 
he could make a properly informed choice about whether to take it.
There might  have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr G the information it should 
have done. But that, in itself, isnt enough  for me to uphold the complaint. Id also need to 
find that any failings  made  a difference to his decision to take the PPI. Taking into account  
Mr Gs circumstances, I dont think better information would have put him off taking out the 
PPI. I say that because, for example:
Ref: DRN24349352It seems  Mr G would  have been eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt look as though 
hed have been significantly affected  by its main exclusions or limitations. 
Mr G says he was entitled to generous sick pay and redundancy pay. But the PPI 
benefits were considerable, covering him for up to 24 months per claim and would be 
paid in addition  to his work benefits. If he had any other  means available  to him, such 
as savings, the PPI would have allowed him to use them towards covering his other 
living costs if he wasnt working.  So, I think hed have found  the extra security the PPI 
gave him to be useful,  especially as it helped protect  borrowing secured against  his 
home.
He had an endowment policy but that would have paid a lump  sum in the event of his 
death, and possibly also for critical illness. The PPI paid a monthly benefit and so Im 
satisfied the policies covered different things and operated  in different ways.  
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr G would  have  found the PPI premium 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible in that Mr G could have cancelled it at any 
time, and at no extra cost, if hed decided he didnt want  it anymore.
Overall, I dont  believe Mr Gs lost out because of how Nationwide sold him the PPI. And I 
dont think the outcome  would be any different even if I was satisfied Nationwide  had 
recommended the PPI to him.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2434935