K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr W bought the policy  in 1998 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr W applied for his credit  card and PPI policy.
At the time,  Mr W was employed in engineering. He has told us he was entitled to no more  
than statutory sick pay or statutory redundancy pay and didnt have any other means  of 
repaying his credit card should he be unable to work. Mr W has said he was in good health  
at the time of the sale and had been working  at his employers for over thirty years.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment as well as life cover  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Ws credit  card 
balance in the event of a successful accident,  sickness or unemployment claim. At the time, 
it cost 77p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. The premium did attract  interest 
and Ive seen  nothing to suggest that the premium wouldnt continue to have to be paid 
during a successful  claim.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots and a statement  to show that in 2006  the credit  card account 
was closed.
Mr Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ws representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr W about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr W and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and 
The information Mr W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN25192782Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was concluded in 2006.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ws case. 
Ref: DRN25192783 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional  advisers to 
give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of 
good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness).
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
did Mr W know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr Ws credit  card application 
form had a box to tick if PPI was wanted. On Mr Ws form the box is ticked. Mr W signed the 
form to take out the card and theres  nothing on the form that makes me think he was led to 
believe that he had to tick the box or had to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN25192784Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr W knew  the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure.
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr W cant remember much about the sale. Lloyds thinks  advice  might  have been provided. 
With this in mind, Im persuaded its fair to proceed  on the basis  that Lloyds provided advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr W. It seems  Mr W cant remember clearly what happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Mr Ws circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show 
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr W would have been caught by the significant  
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds  considered whether Mr W had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr W given his circumstances.  So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Ws ability to continue to 
meet his credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if he was not 
working for an extended period  of time  taking into account what  hes told us about 
his entitlement  to sick pay and redundancy pay.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr W. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ws employment or occupation which would have  made it difficult  
for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
couldve affected his ability  to claim.  Also,  from what Ive seen of the policy terms, 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that the policy  terms had any additional  restrictions  on 
cover for mental health or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr Ws 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what Lloyds 
Ref: DRN25192785was recommending to him and make an informed  decision about whether  to follow  that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr W was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because although from the limited  information available its unclear how exactly 
the sale came about, I think  its unlikely  Mr W would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. Im also satisfied Mr W would have realised the policy wasnt  
free and its likely  he would have had some  understanding  of how much  the policy  cost 
before agreeing to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr W 
agreed to take out the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr W, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr W. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mr W all of the information 
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
Ref: DRN25192786good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either.
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr W? To what extent did Mr W suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr W suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr W would have  
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr W, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr W would  have acted differently, or whether he would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event.
Mr W says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. I say this bearing  in mind that, as Ive found above, Mr W chose  to take 
this policy  out. So I consider that its reasonable to conclude he had some interest in the 
benefits offered  by this type of insurance.  But he made that decision based on incomplete 
information, meaning what he thought he was getting is not exactly  what  he got.
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr W ought reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr W didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr W thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions occurring in the first twelve  
months that Mr W knew about  or for which he had consulted or received treatment 
from a doctor in the 12 months  before the policy started;
Ref: DRN25192787The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr W 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The accident, sickness  and unemployment cover ended  when Mr W turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mr W pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr W from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr W didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Ive seen nothing  about the terms of this policy to suggest it excluded back or mental  health  
conditions, or placed any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements in 
the event of a claim on those grounds than would  have  applied to any other disability claim. 
And I think its unlikely Mr W would have expected  to make a disability claim on the policy  
without first providing some evidence  to support that claim. 
Its likely  to make a disability claim Mr W needed to be totally unable  to do his normal  job 
and not be doing any other work.  I dont  think this is likely to be too different to what  he 
would have expected to make a claim. After all, the policy was cover in case  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment so it seems  unlikely Mr W wouldve thought hed be able to make 
a successful claim if he was still working, whether that be in his normal job or any other  job.
Mr W has complained that during the term of the policy he would not have been able to claim 
because he would have  been ineligible due to reaching the age of 75. But Mr W was in his 
fifties when he took out the PPI. So although  some of the cover wouldve ended  at age 65, I 
think its more likely  than not hed have thought hed get some value out of having the PPI - 
as it would have  covered  him for a reasonable period of time before he turned 65 or 75. In 
fact the credit agreement  and cover ended before Mr W reached age 65.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close to 
what he thought  he was getting and, beyond any statutory  benefits, he didnt have any 
means of meeting his credit card repayments  if he was unable  to work due to accident, 
sickness or redundancy. And in those circumstances  I consider it more likely than not that he 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN25192788the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr W would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr W 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred.
Mr W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr W in the position he would have  been  in if he had not 
bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr W compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware that Mr W thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ws representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr W and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr W in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN25192789my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2519278