K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Zenith  Insurance plc handled  his claim under his motor
insurance policy.
When I refer to Zenith, that includes any contractors or firms it appointed to handle  or
process any stages of Mr Ls claim, unless otherwise stated.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Zenith Insurance plc said it had nothing further to add.
Mr L made a number of points in his written response. Whilst I have considered  all the points 
hes made, I will focus on those that are at the crux of his complaint.
Mr L is making a distinction  between two different electrical circuits on the vehicle- the living  
area circuit and the vehicle circuit. Mr L says the vehicle  circuit wasnt  the circuit that failed 
and caused the fire. He says the living area circuit failed, and the fire that resulted then 
caused subsequent damage  to the vehicle circuit.  He says this is an important distinction  to 
make as he hasnt asked Zenith to pay for the living area circuit  the cause of the fire in his 
opinion. But he has claimed  on his policy for the damage caused  subsequent to the initial  fire 
location  damage  to all other areas  apart from the living area circuit.  
Ive looked at the photo Mr L provided of a fuse board. Mr L says the board is for the vehicle 
circuit rather than the living area circuit.  Mr L says that the apparently  intact fuse board in his 
photo proves that no fuses were blown,  and that as a result no electrical fault had occurred 
in the vehicle circuit. Mr L also concludes that if the vehicle circuit  contained  blown fuses, the 
vehicle would not have operated and he wouldnt have been  able to start it or drive  it.  And  I 
can see where hes coming from.
But it occurs  to me there  is another possibility and so Im not persuaded by what Mr Ls 
suggested. I dont  think because the vehicle  could be started  or driven that this means there 
was no electrical fault somewhere  in the vehicle circuit  for instance, one or more  fuses 
could be blown in the fuse board Mr L shows  in his photo which  dont affect the starting  or 
running of the engine.  But they could have blown  as a result  of a fault elsewhere in the 
circuit. And Zenith says the evidence it has shows part of the vehicle circuits wiring loom 
had rubbed on the chassis and caused the fire.
Ref: DRN26085452On balance, I think Zenith acted reasonably when it decided the evidence  it had showed a 
vehicle electrical  wiring loom had failed and caused  a fire. And as a result, I still think Zenith 
acted fairly  and reasonably when it declined Mr Ls claim for the repair  of the vehicle circuit 
wiring loom. 
In conclusion, Zenith made mistakes in its initial assessment  of whether the vehicle could  be 
repaired or not. Because of this mistake it gave Mr L different explanations  of what it was 
going to do after his initial claim.  And because of this I think it is reasonable that Zenith 
should compensate  Mr L for this distress  and inconvenience. I think £150  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and I understand this payment has already been paid.
I also still think for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision that Zenith is responsible 
for the brake  and ignition damage. And it should pay to rectify those two issues. I also think 
Zenith should pay the sum specified  in the repair estimate for repairs  to areas of the vehicle 
damaged subsequent to the initial fire; again as set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My final decision is, for the reasons set out above  and in my provisional decision, that I 
partially uphold  Mr Ls complaint.  And Zenith Insurance plc should  take the steps Ive set out 
above and in my provisional decision, which for clarity are:
1) pay Mr L the cash in lieu of repair sum previously offered to him of £572;
2) pay Mr L the sum required to repair the brake chamber;
3) pay Mr L the sum required to repair the ignition and ignition key.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Zenith  Insurance plc handled  his claim under his motor
insurance policy.
When I refer to Zenith, that includes any contractors or firms it appointed to handle  or
Ref: DRN26085453process any stages of Mr Ls claim, unless otherwise stated.
background
Mr L drove his horse box from the south of England to Scotland. Having arrived at his
overnight destination, a fuse or fuses blew when he turned on the electrics  for his living area
inside the vehicle. He couldnt use the living area electrics.
The following  morning he couldnt  drive  the vehicle as the airbrakes were  locked on,
preventing the vehicle  from moving. He checked  under the vehicle and saw flames,  which he
extinguished. He phoned his insurer  Zenith   and it sent their agents to inspect and
recover the vehicle.
Zenith told Mr L the vehicle was a write  off, as it said it was beyond  economical repair.  And it
told him he should empty the contents, and move  his two horses. Zeniths  initial inspection,
done without full under-vehicle  access, concluded a light fire had caused some damage  and
that it would  pay the cost of repairing this. Mr L was told that, as most of the damage was
caused by an electrical  fault, his full claim wouldnt be covered, but any subsequent damage
caused by fire would be. Zenith arranged for the vehicle to be transported to Mr Ls preferred
repairer, P, for further inspection and to establish  the cost of repairing the damage caused
by the fire. The vehicle  was moved by a recovery firm appointed by Zenith  but it took over
five weeks for this to happen.
Zeniths examiners inspected the vehicle  again once it was in a more accessible position  for
them. They again reported to Zenith that the fire was caused by an electrical fault,  with
subsequent damage caused  to other areas  of the vehicle. Zenith told Mr L that his policy
didnt cover electrical faults,  so it would only pay to repair damage caused by the fire, but not
the wiring itself that it said caused the fire.
At Mr Ls request, P inspected the vehicle and they said all the damage  was caused by fire.
Therefore, P said, all the damage, including the wiring itself, should be covered by Mr Ls
policy. Zenith didnt agree  and offered a payment in lieu of repairs to settle  Mr Ls claim.
Mr L complained to Zenith,  saying that he felt he was insured for the event and it should pay
for the replacement of the fire-damaged wiring, as well as all the consequential fire damage.
In a supplementary complaint, Mr L also said that Zeniths recovery  agent had damaged  a
brake part during  transportation of the vehicle and the ignition key had been snapped off in
the ignition barrel at some stage. He felt Zenith  should also pay for the vehicles  storage  and
the repairs to the brake and ignition.
Zenith said in its final response  that electrical faults  were not insured on Mr Ls policy and
maintained its offer to pay cash in lieu for the damage actually  caused  by the fire. It sent him
£150 compensation for their initial  change  of mind over the repairing  of the vehicle and
delays in transporting  it to P. And, in its final response to Mr Ls complaint about  the
damaged brake and ignition key, Zenith  said that it had found  no supporting evidence and
didnt uphold  his complaint about these things.
Mr L disagreed with Zeniths  decisions, and its offer of a payment in lieu of repairs, and
complained to us.
An investigator said that he thought Zenith  was entitled  to rely on the exclusion clause for
electrical faults. But he said it should  add the cost of the repair of the brake part, in his
Ref: DRN26085454opinion most  likely damaged during Zeniths movement of the vehicle, to its cash in lieu
payment for repairs to the subsequent damage  during the fire. He said Zenith had caused
unreasonable delays in assessing Mr Ls vehicle and in moving it to his chosen repairer, but
he thought Zenith had already paid Mr L a fair sum for the distress  and inconvenience it had
caused him over that. Because he thought Zenith  had handled  his claim reasonably,  he
didnt think it should pay the storage charges Mr L had accrued after Zeniths  claim
settlement offer was made to him.
Mr L and Zenith didnt agree with the investigator, so the case  has been  passed to me for a
final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
cause of fire
Mr L claimed on his motor insurance policy because he feels  his vehicles  damage  was
caused by fire.
I can see Mr L is referring to a clause in his policy  section 5  which  says We will cover
you under  this section  if the loss or damage  to your vehicle is caused by fire. Zenith  has 
rejected part of Mr Ls claim, and is relying on a clause  in the policy  (exceptions
to sections 4, 5 and 6) that excludes damage or loss caused by mechanical, electrical,
electronic computer or computer software breakdowns, failures, faults or breakages.  Its
said some  of the damage was caused by electrical failure. And its agreed  to pay cash  in lieu
of repairs to Mr L for the cost of repairs to other damage actually caused by the fire.
This exception clause is not unusual in motor vehicle insurance  policies.  And, Ive closely
examined the evidence around  the fire  including the description of events by Mr L, the
engineers reports  and the photographs. Some photographs of an affected area appear to
show the effects of fire on part of the electrical  wiring loom. Zeniths engineer  says the
positioning of the electrical  wiring in that loom  rubbing on the chassis   caused the fire
when it short-circuited. The evidence I have seen  seems to show  some wiring  is damaged
by fire. But if this wiring  was not the cause of the fire, as Mr L contests, I have to think  about
what did cause the fire. And there is no report  to Zenith of another  cause of the fire. Ive also
noted Mr Ls chosen repairer, P, have not reported  on another cause of the fire. They have
said the fires location was different to the location  in Zeniths report,  but not what the cause
of the fire was.
So I think its most likely that Zeniths engineers report that says the fire was the result of an
electrical fault or breakage  is accurate.  And this means the main cause of the damage to the
wiring is an electrical fault and its this that means it needs to be repaired. In view of this, I
think Zeniths decision not to pay the full claim by relying on the above-mentioned exception
is reasonable in the circumstances.
I think there was some  confusion over the length  of time Zeniths agent allowed for the
repairs, but its clear from what they said it thought these would take five or six hours, but the
vehicle would be at the repairers for two days.
Therefore, Id expect  Zenith to settle this aspect with Mr L by paying the sum previously
Ref: DRN26085455offered to him of £572. This represents  cash in lieu of repair to the damage caused
subsequent to the fire, after the policys excess  of £100 has been deducted.
damage to brake  part and ignition  key
I have also looked  at the circumstances  of the damage to a brake  part, and an ignition key
being snapped off in the ignition barrel.
I consider it unlikely that Mr L could have completed  the journey  he did with a damaged
brake chamber. And Ive not seen any evidence  he had braking problems on the journey.
Once he stopped his vehicle at the end of his journey, he didnt then move  it himself. The
vehicle was recovered by Zeniths  agent the next day, and under its control from the time it
was uplifted. Ive seen evidence that brakes  of the type on Mr Ls vehicle can be damaged if
they are not handled correctly during recovery. On the balance of probabilities, I think  the
damage to the brake chamber occurred whilst the vehicle  was in Zeniths care, and I think
Zenith should pay for the repair.
Mr L had one full set of keys for the vehicle. This set was one ignition key, one driver and
passenger door key, one living area key, and one key for each of the three lockers. Mr L has
said this complete set was left with the vehicle when it was recovered  by Zeniths agent. So I
think its most likely  that the ignition key was broken in the ignition when the vehicle was in
Zeniths agents care, and I think Zenith should pay for the repair.
vehicle storage charge
Ive seen that once Zenith issued its final response letter to Mr L in January  2019, he was
aware it wasnt going to authorise the full repair of his vehicle. And that it intended to settle
his claim with a payment  in lieu of repair once it had received a costed breakdown of the
work required. From this date, Mr L could have arranged to store his vehicle elsewhere. This
could have removed  his liability for the cost of storage at Ps premises.  Zenith told Mr L how
it was intending  to settle his claim in its final response letter  just a few days after the vehicle
arrived at Ps premises. And I think it was acting reasonably when it took that time to
complete its investigation  into Mr Ls claim.
Mr L disputed Zeniths  assessment of the damage  and requested a further inspection  by P.
P, Mr Ls chosen repairer, didnt send their full written estimate of repair work costs promptly
to Zenith  following their inspection. And Zenith was only able to send its payment to Mr L in
lieu of repairs once  it had received an estimate  of the cost from its handling agent. But it only
had to get this because  P didnt provide the information Zenith was asking for. Zenith wasnt
responsible for the delay in obtaining  this written breakdown from P. So, I dont  think  its
appropriate for me to make Zenith pay storage costs after they had told Mr L what  its
decision was in response to his complaint.
compensation for distress and inconvenience
Zenith has already  paid Mr L compensation for the time it took to process his claim initially. It
told Mr L his vehicle wasnt  economically  repairable, but also said it was. It agreed that it
could have handled matters better, and I agree.  But Mr L would have had to make  the
arrangements he did on the day of the fire to remove  his horses from the undriveable
vehicle, and transport  himself, regardless of Zeniths change  of decision over the repairability
of the vehicle. So, I dont think Mr L would have  changed what  action he took once he knew
Ref: DRN26085456the vehicle was undriveable. He needed to transport his horses,  and himself,  that day. So I
dont think Zenith is responsible for the inconvenience he suffered  on the day he arranged
his onward journey.
It does appear that Zenith lost Mr Ls original MOT certificate. And whilst Mr L has a copy
available to him, and an original paper  version isnt now required to prove a vehicle has
passed a MOT test, Mr L suffered distress and inconvenience over Zenith  losing this
certificate.
Zenith did cause delays in reaching  its final claim decision, and transporting  the vehicle to P.
And Zenith refused to accept responsibility for the damage to the brakes and the ignition and
key when it was in control of Mr Ls vehicle. But I think the distress and inconvenience Zenith
caused Mr L is fairly reflected by the payment of £150 in compensation it has already paid to
him.
In summary,  I think Zeniths decision  not to pay Mr Ls claim in full was reasonable. And I
think it has paid Mr L enough  compensation for distress and inconvenience. So, while  I
appreciate Mr L will be disappointed, I dont think its appropriate  for me to fully uphold  his
complaint.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to partially uphold  Mr Ls complaint. To settle it,
Zenith Insurance plc should take the steps outlined above, which  for clarity  are:
1) pay Mr L the cash in lieu of repair sum previously offered to him of £572
2) pay Mr L the sum required to repair the brake chamber
3) pay Mr L the sum required to repair the ignition and ignition key
Ref: DRN2608545