K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mr Y have complained that Be Wiser  Insurance  Services Ltd didnt provide a 
suitable car insurance policy  in time to prevent Mr Ys car from being returned  from impound 
to the finance  company.
Mr I is representing Mr K and Mr Y in their complaint.
background
Mr Y said he was the registered owner and keeper of a car which  he held under a finance 
agreement with a dealership since June  2018.  
On 22 October 2018 the police seized Mr Ys car under  the Road Traffic Act as they had 
reason to believe it was being driven without  a licence or insurance. Mr Y wasnt  driving  the 
car when  it was seized.  
The seizure notice  gave a deadline of 31 October 2018 for the registered keeper or owner to 
collect the car. 
Mr I said that Mr Y was out of the country  and so wasnt  able to collect  the car. On 30 
October 2018 Mr I called Be Wiser and arranged a policy in Mr Ks name. Mr I told Be Wiser  
that Mr K wasnt the registered owner or keeper of the car. 
Be Wiser passed  this information  to the underwriter  and a policy was set up. But when Mr I 
and Mr K went to collect the car on 31 October  2018, the police spoke to the underwriter. 
They told the police their policy wasnt valid because Mr K wasnt  the registered owner or 
keeper  even  though Be Wiser had told the underwriter this was the case. 
Mr I contacted Be Wiser and it arranged for the underwriter to provide a replacement  policy  
showing Mr Y as the policyholder and Mr K as a named driver. This policy  was available on 
1 November 2018.
However, Mr I said that by then it was too late as the deadline  was 31 October 2018. Mr Ys 
car was returned to the dealership finance company. The finance  company terminated the 
finance agreement  Mr Y held with it as it said hed breached the terms of the agreement. 
Mr I on behalf of Mr Y said Be Wisers error caused Mr Y to have a default  marked against 
him by the finance company. He said this would destroy Mr Ys credit  rating  at a time when 
he was hoping to get a mortgage to buy a house.  
Be Wiser contacted the police. It told Be Wiser that it had extended the deadline  to provide 
correct documents   which  wasnt limited to a valid insurance policy  to 2 November 2018. 
It didnt receive the documents it asked  for by this date. So Mr Ys car wasnt released.  
The underwriter agreed to refund the premium  paid for the second policy as Mr I said it 
couldnt be used  to release Mr Ys car. 
Our investigator thought Be Wiser had acted  reasonably. He said the information  showed 
that Be Wiser provided a second policy before the extended deadline set by the police for 
Mr Ys representatives to collect his car. 
Ref: DRN21949152Mr I didnt agree. He believes Be Wiser is trying  to avoid responsibility for its errors.  He said 
Mr Y is being chased by a debt recovery agent  for the balance he owes the finance 
company. Mr Y doesnt  believe he should have to pay it.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
The original  seizure  note gave a deadline of 31 October 2018 for the registered keeper and 
owner of the car to provide the documents the police required to release Mr Ys car.
The police emailed  Be Wiser and said that it wrote  to Mr Y to tell him that only he could 
reclaim his car and the deadline it gave him was 2 November 2018. 
The police said a male  attended a police  station on 26 October  2018.  The police told him it 
needed a fax from Mr Y showing  his open passport with his full details. The fax needed to 
clearly show the country of origin  for confirmation. 
The police said two males  attended  on 31 October 2018 with the incorrect policy document   
but also without  the additional  fax confirmation.  The police said they made the men aware 
that Mr Y needed to provide the requested documents  by 2 November 2018 or the car would  
be returned to the finance  company. The police  said it cant confirm if the second insurance 
policy would have been adequate as it didnt see the policy and didnt receive  the fax 
confirmation. 
Be Wiser has provided  a copy of the proposal  form it sent to the underwriter. It correctly  told 
the underwriter that Mr K wasnt  the registered  owner or keeper of the car. When  the error 
was discovered, Be Wiser promptly contacted the underwriter and arranged a replacement  
policy. This was available on 1 November 2018.  So according to the information  Be Wiser 
received from the police,  I cant conclude that Be Wiser arranged the policy  too late. 
I also cant conclude that Be Wiser is responsible for the dealership finance companys 
decision to terminate the agreement it had with Mr Y. Its a standard  requirement  for a car 
under a finance agreement to be comprehensively insured. The letter Ive seen from the 
finance company  which  says Mr Y breached the agreement doesnt say why. Theres  no 
evidence to show me that the reason the finance agreement was terminated was because  
the car was returned to the finance company. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think Be Wiser acted reasonably.  It provided  correct details 
to the underwriter. And it arranged  a replacement policy before the deadline the police said it 
gave to collect Mr Ys car. As a full refund  was given, I think  Be Wiser has been  fair. So Im 
not asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN21949153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2194915