K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) increased  the interest 
rate on her credit card account.  She also complained about the interest rates  shes  had to 
pay in recent  years.
background
Ms O has been repaying the balance on her credit  card account  for several years.  Towards  
the end of 2018 Barclaycard asked  her to increase her minimum repayments,  and said it 
may suspend her account if she didnt make the payments.
Ms O complained and Barclaycard temporarily reduced the interest rate on her account. But 
when the minimum repayments increased again,  Ms O said she couldnt afford what  
Barclaycard was asking  her to pay.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She found that 
Barclaycard had adjusted the interest rate in line with the account  terms. Barclaycard had 
also increased Ms Os minimum payments in line with the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys 
(FCA) directive  on helping  customers out of persistent debt.
Ms O didnt agree with the investigators conclusions.  She didnt consider Barclaycard had 
properly explained  the basis on which it made interest rate changes. Ms O also thought 
Barclaycards introductory  offers should be examined to see whether existing customers  
were paying  higher interest rates so that Barclaycard could attract new customers with 
interest-free deals. Ms O said shed  increased  her monthly repayments  but couldnt  afford  
what Barclaycard was asking her to pay.
Ms O asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Os account was identified by Barclaycard  as being in persistent debt  which  means 
that over a period of eighteen months  shed paid more  in interest and charges  than she had 
towards the underlying debt on her account. 
The FCA had issued  guidance to credit card providers on what  they need to do to help 
customers pay off long term debt.
From what  Ive seen, I think Barclaycard was following the FCAs guidance when it 
contacted Ms O towards the end of 2018  about  increasing her minimum repayments. It told 
her the increased  payments would reduce the cost of borrowing and the balance  would be 
repaid sooner. It also encouraged Ms O to contact it if she was going to have difficulty 
paying the increased amount. Barclaycard warned Ms O the card may be suspended if the 
account was in persistent debt for another eighteen  months, and it provided information 
about free debt counselling services.
Ref: DRN27344802When Ms O contacted Barclaycard it reduced the interest rate on her account so that her 
minimum repayments were manageable. Its said it was able to do this because there was 
an offer available to Ms O at the relevant  time. 
Barclaycard has said that if customers ask for a lower rate it can review their circumstances 
to see whether its appropriate to reduce the rate theyre paying. But it doesnt guarantee 
that the rate will be reduced.
I think thats fair and reasonable.  Barclaycard reduced the interest rate Ms O was paying but 
it wasnt obliged to do so.
The account  terms allow Barclaycard to change  the interest rate it charges, provided it tells 
her about  the change  and gives her the opportunity  to end the agreement if shes  not happy  
with it. But in those  circumstances Ms O would have  to repay the account  balance within a 
reasonable period. 
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that when Barclaycard increased the minimum payments 
on Ms Os account, it did so with a view to helping her pay off what  she owed as quickly  as 
possible. But it also gave  her the option  of opting out of the increased payments, and 
explained what would happen if her account  remained in persistent debt for another eighteen  
months. Again, I think that was fair and reasonable.
Ms O considers existing  customers  may be paying  higher  interest rates to allow  Barclaycard  
to attract  new customers with interest-free deals. As the investigator has explained, its not 
the role of this service  to review Barclaycards  commercial activities.  If Ms O has concerns 
about the way in which Barclaycard offers new products,  she may want  to think  about raising 
this with the FCA.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard has done anything  wrong on this occasion,  so I 
wont be upholding Ms Os complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2734480