K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complains that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) gave them incorrect information 
about the cost of covering  their sons pre-existing medical conditions  under a travel  
insurance policy.
background
Mr S and Mrs K had travel insurance cover under a packaged  bank account.  They  wanted to 
take out a packaged  bank account with a new provider, which  again  included travel 
insurance (underwritten by UKI). Before  switching, Mr S called UKI to discuss  his familys 
pre-existing medical conditions. UKI carried out medical screening,  and advised  Mr S that 
his sons medical conditions would be covered without it needing to charge an additional 
premium. Mr S and Mrs K decided  to go ahead and switch to the new packaged bank 
account, but chose not to have cover  for Mr Ss own medical  conditions  under the travel 
policy. 
The following  year,  before going  on holiday,  Mr S called UKI and it carried out medical 
screening again. At this time, Mr S was advised  hed need to pay an additional premium to 
have cover for his sons medical conditions. Mr S explained that when the previous medical 
screening had been  done, hed been told he didnt  need to pay anything for his sons  
conditions to be covered.  
UKI accepted it should have told Mr S at the first medical screening that hed need to pay a 
higher premium in order to have cover for his sons conditions. As it had led Mr S to believe 
his sons conditions would be covered  for free, it offered to waive  the additional premium for 
12 months. Unhappy with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. Whilst it wasnt in dispute that 
UKI had made an error, she thought UKIs  offer was reasonable.  
Mr S and Mrs K didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matters  been passed to me 
to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
UKI accepts  that it made an error when it advised  Mr S that his sons medical  condition  
wouldnt cost anything  to be covered  under the policy. Mr S says he took out the policy on 
that basis, and if hed known hed have  to pay an additional premium, he wouldnt have 
switched in the first place.  He wants UKI to cover his sons medical conditions for free for the 
life of the policy.
The policy says that pre-existing medical conditions should be declared to UKI at the time of 
opening the account or before a journey is booked (whichever is later), and that UKI will 
discuss the condition  and work  out whether it can be covered for free, for an additional 
premium, or if it cant cover the condition.
Ref: DRN29924102I appreciate that Mr S did everything he was supposed  to. He declared his sons  medical 
conditions before opening the account,  then again  when booking  his trip. Unfortunately, UKI 
made an error when  he first told it about  his sons medical conditions, because  it told Mr S 
that he didnt need to pay an additional  premium. UKI ought to have advised Mr S that hed 
need to pay extra in order to have cover  for his sons medical conditions. 
Mr S says if hed known that hed need to pay an additional premium to have cover for his 
sons medical conditions,  he wouldnt have switched to the new packaged  bank account.  I 
cant be sure about that - there was clearly a reason he decided to switch  from his previous 
packaged bank  account, where  he had cover for his and his sons  medical  conditions  under 
the travel  insurance  policy.
In any event, given  that Mr S was required to disclose existing medical  conditions  each time 
he booked a trip, there was always the risk that UKI would decide  to charge an additional  
premium to cover his sons medical  conditions. There  was no guarantee that UKI would 
cover these for free for the life of the policy, even  though it had told Mr S (albeit  incorrectly)  
at the first medical screening that he wouldnt need  to pay an additional premium to have 
cover for his sons conditions at that time.
Whilst I recognise Mr S and Mrs Ks disappointment that their sons conditions  wont be 
covered for free going forwards, like the investigator, I think UKIs  offer to provide 12 months 
cover free of charge  for their sons medical conditions was reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2992410