K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) failed to process her share  sale 
request on the appropriate date, and that this resulted in a loss of more than £300.
background
YBS rejected her complaint. It recognised that the sale had been  delayed by three  days  due 
to an office closure  due to snow, but said it still completed the sale within  the required period 
as set out in the terms that Miss H had agreed to.
An investigator at this service was also satisfied that YBS had done so within the promised 
timescale. She noted that Miss H had completed  a signed Maturity Instruction Form which 
stated:
I understand that the exercise of an option  is an involved process and may take up to 
30 days. I accept that neither YBS Share Plans, Stocktrade or HomeServe  can be held 
responsible for any adverse movements in the share price during  this period.
She said that while this didnt  make clear when the 30 day period began, she thought it was 
reasonable to assume it meant within  30 days of YBS receiving the form. By this criterion,  
YBS had done  nothing wrong.
During further exchanges YBS admitted it had upheld several similar complaints but said this 
had been in error.
Miss H did not agree  with the investigators  view, saying she didnt feel YBS had treated her 
fairly given  it had compensated other customers for the impact of the office closure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
I fully understand  Miss Hs frustration that other customers have received compensation 
from YBS for what appears to the same or a similar  delay due to bad weather. But I can only 
uphold a complaint if I am satisfied that a business  has done something wrong.
In this case YBS promised to complete her instructions within  a specified  period of time, and 
it met that deadline.  So Miss H is not entitled to compensation for the fact that her shares  
could have been sold for a higher price earlier on  whatever the reason for the delay.
Ref: DRN25877392my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2587739