K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Allianz  Insurance Plc didn't pay all of the claim she made  on her 
equine insurance  policy.
Reference to Allianz includes  its agents.
background
Mrs Ls horse was injured.  Vets treated  it but it remained in considerable pain, so Mrs L and 
the vets decided it was in the best interest  of the horses welfare to have it put to sleep.
Mrs L claimed for the costs of: treating the initial injury; putting her horse  to sleep; and 
disposal. She also claimed for death  benefit under the death from injury section of the policy.  
Allianz paid for the vets costs for treating the initial  injury but refused the rest of Mrs Ls 
claim. Allianz also offered Mrs L £50 compensation for its delays  in dealing with the matter.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 December 2018. For ease I've copied my provisional  
findings below:  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I wont uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs L made  a number of detailed points and I've considered 
everything she said carefully. But in this decision  I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding issues.
 
Ill say at the outset  that it feels very cold to be referring to policy terms and conditions and 
telling someone  that its likely I won't  uphold their complaint following the death  of a horse, 
which I understand was much loved. But my role is to consider whether Allianz has acted  
fairly and reasonably. So Ive looked at the complaint impartially  and not been swayed by the 
difficult circumstances that gave rise to it.
death from injury
Mrs Ls policy has a section covering the circumstances in which it will or won't pay a benefit  
on the death of her horse. And it has a specific term concerning the circumstances where, as 
in this case, a horse has been  put to sleep. And that term is clear that - in order to qualify for 
the benefits under that section of the policy - the horses condition must have met specific  
veterinary association guidelines (the guidelines).  Such a term is quite common in policies of 
this type and we don't  think its unfair.
Its not in dispute  that the decision to put the horse  to sleep wasn't  taken lightly and was 
made solely in the interests of its welfare. And Mrs L has argued  that her horses  condition  
did meet  the guidelines. But the vet has said that the horses  condition  didn't meet the 
guidelines that the policy says must  be met. The vet said that both on Mrs Ls claim form and 
in a recent email.  In that email the vet repeated that the decision to put the horse to sleep 
was taken in its best interests. But the vet added that she couldn't confirm that the guidelines  
had been met. So, the horses  condition  didn't  meet the specific condition the policy  said 
must be met in order to benefit  from it.
Ref: DRN27128002Also, as her policy requires, Mrs L rang Allianz to tell it that her horse was going to be put to 
sleep. During that call Allianz told Mrs L that in order for the policy to cover the situation the 
guidelines must be met. Mrs L commented that she didn't know what those guidelines were 
and Allianz suggested she might  wish to talk about  this with the vet.
So having  thought about this very carefully I think it was reasonable for Allianz to decline 
Mrs Ls claim for death benefit.  Thats because it told her that, in line with her policys  terms, 
to benefit from cover  the guidelines would need  to be met. And her vet hasn't confirmed that 
those guidelines were met. So I think it was reasonable for Allianz  to decline her claim.
disposal
The policy says that the costs of disposal might be met in certain circumstances. But thats 
only the case where Mrs L could also benefit from a claim under  the death  from injury 
section of the policy. So as the claim didn't meet  the criteria for death benefit, it also means 
that it didn't meet the criteria  for the disposal to be covered. So I think it was reasonable for 
Allianz to refuse to cover the costs of disposal.
putting the horse to sleep
Mrs L claimed for the vets costs of putting her horse to sleep. But thats not something thats 
covered by the policy. Ive looked  carefully at the policy and very closely at its sections 
where such costs might  be covered. Ive copied below the specific wording that applies and 
Ive repeated the highlighted  areas  as they appear  in the policy.  There are two appropriate  
policy sections: Death  from Injury and the Veterinary Fees for Injury. And the wording  is 
exactly the same sections in both sections. It says:
What we will not pay
The costs  of having your horse put to sleep or cremated, buried or any other form of 
disposal.
In other  words the policy specifically excludes the costs of putting  the horse to sleep. That's 
the case whether  the guidelines are met or not. And I can't see anywhere  else in the policy 
where it says those costs  may be met. It follows that I think  Allianzs decision not to pay this 
part of Mrs Ls claim was in line with the terms of Mrs Ls policy.  So I think  its decision was 
reasonable.
developments
Mrs L said that Allianz had initially lied to us by saying that she hadn't  rung it. She said she 
was disappointed that I hadn't awarded compensation for the impact of that. She added that 
she felt that the vets had complied with the second part of the guidelines. 
Allianz didn't provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ref: DRN27128003Mrs L said that Allianz lied to us but I haven't seen any evidence - beyond Mrs Ls comments  
- thats the case. In her initial  view our investigator said that Mrs Ls policy required Mrs L to 
speak with Allianz to discuss having her horse put to sleep in order for a claim to be paid. 
The inference being that Mrs L hadn't  done  so. But I think that was the investigators 
mistake. I haven't seen any evidence that Allianz  told us that Mrs L hadn't phoned it. Indeed 
in its response to Mrs Ls complaint it referred  to the conversation  with her in which  it told her 
that the policy required the guidelines  to be met. It follows that I don't think  Allianz did 
anything wrong. So I don't think compensation is warranted.
Mrs Ls also said that she thinks the vets did comply with the second part of the guidelines. 
But the policy requires  that the full guidelines must be met. And the vets haven't  confirmed 
that the guidelines  were met. So I think Allianzs  decision  to refuse the claim for death 
benefit was reasonable.
Neither Mrs L nor Allianz had commented on the other parts  of my provisional decision, so I 
see no reason to change my findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2712800