K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc refused their claim made under 
chargeback and Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. They  want a full refund for 
services they say were  misrepresented.
background
Mr and Mrs W tell us they paid a company Ill refer to as C for a holiday club membership in 
2011 using a debit card and a credit card. They feel the service was misrepresented  as they 
didnt receive the cash back  they were promised and found difficulty  in booking  holidays. 
They say the first deposit of £100  was made  in July 2011 using a debit card and the balance 
of £8,380 was paid,  using  a loan, in August 2011. C went  into liquidation in 2012  and Mr and 
Mrs W say theyve not received any money  back.
NatWest told us it had no evidence the payments made to C had been made from a credit 
card. It said it had traced a payment of £8,380 which had been  paid from a current  account. 
As no payment had been made from a credit card it said section 75 did not apply.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said he could see a 
payment of £8380 was debited from the current account - which  matched  the payment to C. 
But as the payment had not been  made  by credit card NatWest  would not be responsible.  
And as the £100 payment  made  by debit card had occurred in 2011 - chargeback  would not 
apply as the usual time limit to make  one is between 100 and 120 days  after the issue giving 
rise to the complaint occurred.
Mr and Mrs W did not agree and said they had been  victims of a scam and didnt 
understand how this was not being acknowledged.  They also felt it was the role of this 
service to overturn the banks decisions and not to agree with them and use the same 
arguments against customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr and Mrs W have experienced such an upsetting and costly experience. And I 
can well understand  why they think they are entitled  to compensation. But as a service  - 
which is obliged to follow rules laid down both by Parliament and the Financial  Conduct  
Authority - unfortunately we cant always put things  right no matter how deserving  the cause.
And Im afraid this is one of those  situations where  my decision  is going to disappoint Mr and 
Mrs W. Ill explain in detail how Ive reached  the conclusion that I cant uphold this complaint.
Ill also try to correct what appears to be a misunderstanding about  the role of this service.  
We are an independent and informal resolution service. This means  we decide cases  on the 
basis of the information before us. There is no pre-disposition to finding in favour of either a 
consumer or a business. Its entirely  an evidence based approach,  ensuring equal  fairness  
to all parties. 
In their original complaint  Mr and Mrs W said they felt their payments were  protected  under 
section 75 and/or chargeback regulations. Whilst I dont  apply  the law - directly - I do take it 
into account. So Im not deciding  if section  75 applies - only a court can do that. But I do look 
to see what relevant legislation might  be applicable and in this case that includes section 75.
Ref: DRN21976122Where a consumer uses certain methods of payment in the course of a transaction  for goods  
and/or services there  are sometimes additional protections of the payment in case  
something goes wrong.
In summary,  section 75 says - subject to certain conditions - a consumer can make a like 
claim against the provider of credit as they could against the supplier  of goods and/or 
services. The conditions  require there  to have  been  a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. And there are other conditions including the type of credit  
used - including credit cards or certain  types  of fixed sum loans
Its also important to note that when considering a complaint under section 75, Im not 
deciding upon  the merits of the underlying claim.  So in this case Im not required to say 
whether I think there was, or was not, a misrepresentation or breach  of contract. Im deciding 
if the alleged provider of credit - in this case NatWest - has dealt with the claim fairly  when 
considering section 75.
Ive seen that a number  of transfers  of funds took place between  accounts held by Mr and 
Mrs W. Theres a transfer directly into a credit card account in Mr Ws name  which occurs on 
29 July 2011.  I understand this came from a from a fixed sum loan with another lender they 
took out (as they saw it) to finance the holiday club membership payment.
This is followed  by a transfer  out to a current account held in joint names.  From that account 
a payment of £8,380 is made on 15 August 2011.  So whilst the money may have passed 
through Mr Ws credit card account  - it was not the credit card which  was used to pay C. Ive 
also seen a transfer from Mrs Ws current account  for the initial deposit of £100 made on 3 
July 2011. As neither payment was made from a credit card,  I think  it was fair for NatWest 
not to accept the claim under section  75. This is because the criteria was not met.
Sometimes when a claim under section 75 might not be available a chargeback  claim might  
be possible. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme  operated by some card providers and 
applies, amongst  others, to certain types of debit card. But the rules are set by the card 
provider. And theres a time limit in which claims must be made. In this case that was 120 
days from the date the issue  giving rise to the complaint occurred - so Im afraid  thats long 
since expired.
In summary,  as none of the relevant payments were made  by credit card, and the time limit 
for chargeback has expired, neither section 75 nor chargeback claims could have been 
attempted. Im not upholding this complaint, as it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say 
NatWest had done anything wrong  in the handling  of it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2197612