K820x#14Complaint
Mr I is unhappy that Next Retail Limited  have refused to credit his account for two jumpers  
he returned in January  2019. Hes also unhappy that its put a hold on his account until hes 
agreed to a declaration confirming that all future returns will be made in store.  
Background
Mr I has held a Next Directory account since 2009. On 25 January 2019 Next made  a 
decision to send a store returns  declaration  to Mr I and the account was put on hold, pending  
the return of the signed declaration. It did this because of the number  of issues experienced 
with Mr Is returns not being received. In the period  between July 2018 and January 2019 
alone, Next credited Mr Is account  for 5 items  that Mr I said had been returned  but hadnt  
been received  by Next. 
After Next sent the declaration to Mr I on 25 January, Mr I contacted it to query another  
return he said hed made by courier on 19 January 2019. Mr I said the parcel contained two 
of the four branded jumpers that hed ordered  in October and November 2018. The jumpers 
cost £199 each. Mr I provided  a copy of a delivery  calling  card as proof of postage. 
Next said the proof of postage wasnt valid and it had no record  of a parcel being collected 
by its courier or delivered to Next on the specified  dates. So it said wouldnt  be crediting 
Mr Is account on this occasion for the two jumpers.  
Mr I complained to Next. He said that if Next wouldnt refund the jumpers then it should 
return them.  As Next and Mr I were unable to resolve matters, Mr I referred his complaint to 
this service for an independent review. 
One of our investigator  reviewed matters but he didnt think Next had done anything wrong 
so he didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr I disagreed with the investigators  finding so asked for 
an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He has now also provided information  received 
from the courier company  showing  that a parcel was collected from his address on 
19 January 2019  and delivered to Next on 21 January 2019.
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. 
Store returns declaration
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there has been  a higher than expected  number of 
issues with Mr Is returns not being received by Next. And I can see that on numerous 
occasions prior to it issuing the store returns declaration, Next has credited Mr Is account for 
any disputed items.  However, Mr I raised the issue of the two jumpers after Next had sent 
him an email  confirming that his account  had been  put on hold, pending  the declaration 
being returned. 
Ref: DRN26270322Mr I says he didnt receive  the email  confirming that this was happening. But Ive seen a 
copy and have no reason to doubt  that it was sent.  In any event, receipt of this email  has no 
bearing on my decision so Ive not looked  into this point further.  
Given the number  of issues Mr I has experienced returning items  to Next, I dont think its 
unreasonable that its issued this store returns declaration and put a hold on his account, 
pending the declaration  being returned.  This declaration  is there not only to protect  Next but 
it will also mean that Mr I wont find himself  in the positon hes in now whereby his returned 
items havent been received. So Im not asking Next to remove  the requirement for the store  
declaration to be completed  from Mr Is account.  
Should Next credit the value of the jumpers to Mr Is account?
The terms and condition  of the account state that, unless  faulty,  items should  be returned  
within 14 days or receipt. I think these terms are clearly laid out so its not unreasonable to 
suggest that Mr I should have  been aware  of the returns  period. And whether ordered in 
October or November, the jumpers had clearly exceeded the returns period. So, Next 
doesnt have to provide a refund. I appreciate that Next may not have chosen to always 
enforce this term but it doesnt mean its not entitled to rely on this term now.  
The issue  here is Next has no record of the items being received, meaning  its not possible 
for them to be returned to Mr I on this occasion. So its for me to decide  whether Next needs 
to do anything on this occasion to put this right. 
Mr I has now provided information that supports a courier collecting a parcel from his home 
and delivering  it to Next on 21 January 2019. I know Next doesnt have a record  of this being 
received but on the basis of the information provided by the courier  company, Im satisfied 
that a parcel was collected and delivered  on the dates specified. 
However, it doesnt automatically follow that this parcel contained  the jumpers  Mr I says he 
returned. So Ive thought  carefully about this. 
I should explain that where there  is a dispute about  what happened,  as there  is here, I make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I consider is most  likely to 
have happened, based on the evidence I have.  
Next has explained  to me how its system  for returns works. There are a couple of ways that 
an item returned to its warehouse will be linked up to the account that purchased  it. The first 
of these being via the returns slip that the account terms and conditions stipulate  should be 
included in the parcel along with the items  being returned. 
Ref: DRN26270323On this occasion, Mr I has explained that he wrapped the parcel in front of the courier.  And 
the courier wrote on the postage acknowledge slip details of what  was included in the parcel. 
I find it unusual that Mr I would disclose to the courier that the parcel contained high value  
items, particularly given the number of times hes experienced  problems with his courier 
returns. Notwithstanding this, the account  terms and conditions  state  that a returns  slip 
needs to be included with the parcel  and Mr I hasnt mentioned  that hed included one on 
this occasion.  
Next has explained  that if a returns slip was included it might  not have automatically linked 
up with Mr Is account as the return was received after the 14 day returns period. However,  a 
manual check would then have been  carried out and the parcel would have linked up to his 
account at that point,  had a returns slip been  included. So on balance, I dont think  a returns 
slip was included. This means theres  a second reason the return didnt meet with the 
accounts terms and conditions. 
However, Next has explained  that even when a returns slip isnt included,  its still possible for 
individual items to be linked to the account that ordered them.  This is done  using a unique 
tracking number on the item itself. So had the jumpers been returned  to Next with the 
tags/labels still attached, Im satisfied  that its tracking system would have linked these up to 
Mr Is account.  Ive thoroughly checked the account notes and cant  see any record of these 
jumpers being returned. 
Next has explained  that, on occasions, customers return items to it in error, for example  
returns meant for another  store. When this happens, if the returned parcel doesnt include a 
returns slip, then its difficult  to match the parcel  to the account that returned it. I think, on 
balance, this is most likely  whats happened on this occasion and because a returns slip 
wasnt included, Next was unable to match the parcel to Mr Is account.  Or it may have been 
that the tags/labels werent attached to the jumpers so the unique item numbers  werent 
available  again meaning it wasnt possible for the parcel  to be matched to Mr Is account.
Given the above, its difficult to say that Next needs to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that Mr I will be disappointed.  But having considered everything carefully, Im 
not satisfied the return  met with the terms and conditions of the account. And I dont think 
Next can be held responsible for items  that it hasnt received or that may not have been 
traceable back to Mr Is order because they werent returned correctly.  I also think that given 
the number of issues Mr I has experienced with his returns, its not unreasonable for Next to 
require him to make any future returns in store.  
 
My final decision
For the reason  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2627032