K821x#15Mr H complains that FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com,  was 
irresponsible when  it approved him for three loans in 2014  and 2015.  He says that it didnt 
carry out proper  affordability checks when lending  to him. 
background
Mr H took three loans with Smart Pig. This table contains some  of the information Smart Pig 
has provided to us about Mr Hs loans.
loan  
numberdate taken amount 
borroweddate repaiddate due to 
be repaidtermamount 
due to be 
repaid
1 04/12/14 £250 05/01/2015 05/01/201532 
days£323.50
2 23/01/15 £350 20/04/2015 13/04/201580 
days£525.00
3 26/06/15 £350 25/11/2017 21/09/201587 
days£525.00
Our adjudicator considered Mr Hs complaint and recommended that it should  be upheld  and 
that Smart  Pig should put things right for Mr H. It doesnt agree  with our adjudicators 
assessment.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me - an ombudsman - 
for a final decision.  If Mr H accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
Id like to take this opportunity to apologise  to Smart  Pig and Mr H for how long it has taken 
for this complaint  to reach this stage in our process.  Im sorry that theyve had to wait so long 
for an answer. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about high-cost short-term  lending - 
including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good industry practice  - on our website.
Smart Pig provided the loans in question while it was authorised and regulated  by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Smart  Pig when providing loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms  obligations in 
relation to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC explained what a lender had to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
Ref: DRN23216232(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2) a lender had to consider:
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
Ref: DRN23216233(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
With all this in mind, I think  there  are some overarching questions  I need to consider in order 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Hs complaint: In particular -
did Smart Pig complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr H would be able to repay  his loans in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do 
so?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Smart Pig provided the loans 
to Mr H. It had to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could 
afford to repay them in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Smart Pig did had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan.  
And what is proportionate will depend on a number  of factors including things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as other things  such  as the 
amount, type and cost of the credit being sought.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt specify exactly  how an assessment of affordability 
is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of information to 
use needed  to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the 
arrangement for the borrower.
In other  words, the assessment needs  to be borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering its money  but of the risk to the individual  borrower  of 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence  as a result  of 
the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the individual. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
borrower might not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  person in different circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the borrower of not being  able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. 
Ref: DRN23216234Certain factors might point to the fact that Smart  Pig should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. These  factors  include, but are 
not limited to: 
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
In some situations, there may even  come a point where the lending history  and pattern of 
lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important to remember  that Smart Pig was required to establish  whether Mr H 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments  were affordable  on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.  The loan payments being  affordable  on this basis might 
be an indication a borrower could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt  
automatically follow this is the case.  This is because   as I've set out above  CONC defines 
sustainable as meaning that repayments  could be made without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the borrower  should be able to make  repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
It follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  I think this is highly relevant to Mr Hs 
complaint  as Ill explain  below.
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Smart  Pig was in the process  of approving the loans for Mr H.
I think it would be helpful for me to address, at this stage,  some of the points raised by Smart 
Pig. Our adjudicator  concluded that Smart Pig hadnt done proportionate checks when  it 
approved Mr Hs three loans. And he found  that had it done so it wouldve seen  that Mr H 
wouldnt be able to afford them in a sustainable  way. Smart Pig says it only lends to students 
and that its affordability  assessments are based  on termly rather  than monthly income. It 
was unhappy  that our adjudicator had considered  what Mr Hs monthly financial situation 
was.
Students income generally comes  from student loans paid to them on a termly basis; it 
seems that Smart Pig puts a good deal of weight on that student  loan income when making 
its assessments. That may be reasonable in some situations but there may be others where 
it isnt. For example when  Mr H took Loan 1 he was due to repay it around one month later. 
He didnt take Loan 1over a whole term. Did that mean Smart Pig needed to do more or less 
than its normal model  dictated?  That would  depend on the other circumstances in existence 
at the time of the application (as Ive explained  by reference to CONC above).
Ref: DRN23216235I accept that it is for Smart Pig to decide the basis upon which it assesses its student- 
borrowers income. But, whatever it does it, it has to be proportionate to the individual  
circumstances at the time each loan is taken  one size doesnt  fit all when it comes to the 
level of appropriate  checks when assessing  the affordability of loans  students or not: 
termly income or monthly  income.
When Smart Pig approved Loan 1 it seems that it took account of Mr Hs termly income in 
circumstances where  he was borrowing £250 on 4 December  2014 and going to have to 
repay £323.50 on 5 January 2015.  He had received his student  loan in October and hed 
also received a grant of £1,129 on 13 November  yet here he was asking Smart Pig for a 
loan which  he was due to repay  from his January 2015 student loan income.  This wasnt  a 
simple case of a student borrowing and repaying his loans with Smart Pig broadly in 
alignment with the receipt of his student loan income.  
In its response to Mr Hs complaint Smart  Pig said that it had reviewed and verified the 
source of income  which he was using to repay the loan, it had made  sure he wasnt behind 
with any other creditors and it had done an identification check. Mr H was an 18 year old 
student in a city, broadly acknowledged  as one of the most expensive cities  for students. 
Smart Pig was aware  of that. As a student  Mr H was going  to have a number of expenses 
which, so far as Smart  Pig knew, were going to be met from his student  loan. But it didnt ask 
about those. It appears to me that Smart  Pig, aware that Mr H wasnt behind with his other 
credit (thought it hasnt  shared  its credit search results with us) and knowing that Mr H was 
going to receive  his grant and loan on 5 January 2015, concluded that Mr H would  be able to 
afford to repay Loan 1 sustainably. I agree with our adjudicator; this wasnt  proportionate. I 
think Smart Pig shouldve been  doing much more  to satisfy itself that Mr H would be able to 
do as the regulations outlined  repay his loan without undue difficulties, in particular,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayment. 
As I understand it, Smart Pig didnt make any further enquiries about  Mr Hs income or 
outgoings. It wasnt aware of how much  he had to pay for rent, transport or food  more  than 
likely, all necessary outgoings for Mr H. If it had sought confirmation about  those  things it 
wouldve established that Mr Hs rent was close £1,280 per month  and it was payable a term 
in advance. He had paid £4,214 in September 2014 and a similar amount was due in 
January 2015.  
Had Smart Pig done what I consider proportionate checks it wouldve discovered that Mr Hs 
grant and student  loan wouldnt meet his rent commitments let alone anything  else.  This 
wouldve, I expect, led it to enquire whether Mr H had any other sources of income. And it 
seems he did  though  Smart Pig didnt know this because it didnt ask. Mr H had a part-time  
job in a supermarket. He has explained that this meant that his monthly income  (including  
his student loan)  was around £1,570 per month.   He has also told us that his transport costs 
were around  £80 and his food was around £100.  Those figures seem on the low side to me 
but they are what Mr H says he spent  so I accept them.  And they dont include other things  
Id consider normal  expenditure such as clothes or mobile telephone costs.  So, even 
without any repayments  to Smart Pig this meant that Mr H was close  to being overspent  
each month. Consequently he wasnt going to be able to repay Loan 1  even out of his 
January student  loan income without borrowing again. And indeed that is what happened.
On 5 January  2015 Mr Hs grant  and loan were paid to him  a total of £3,199.  He repaid 
Loan 1 - £323.50. And of course his rent was due. Ive seen  correspondence  between Mr H 
and his landlords agent on 20 January 2015 showing that he was already two weeks  
Ref: DRN23216236overdue with his rent and was facing  a late fee charge  of £30 later that day if his rent wasnt  
paid. It was in this situation  that Mr H applied for Loan 2. This time his loan was for a higher 
amount. I accept that Mr H had repaid  Loan  1 on time  but for the reasons Ive explained 
this wasnt done  sustainably. And again  I think that a proportionate check  by Smart Pig 
shouldve involved it in better understanding Mr Hs broader financial situation and especially 
his basic living costs  like housing, food and transport. Im not suggesting  that Smart Pig 
would necessarily have  found out that he was already  in arrears with his rent but it wouldve 
at least found  out how much  he was paying for that rent. And  Im satisfied that it wouldve 
concluded that Mr Hs financial circumstances were so precarious that it was unlikely hed be 
able to repay this loan sustainably  even with the addition of the income  from his part-time 
job.
I understand that  according  to Smart  Pigs  statement of account - Mr H repaid Loan  2 a 
week late. His loan and grant  were due to be paid on 13 April 2015  the same  day he was 
due to repay Loan 2. He actually repaid it on 20 April. But that aside,  as a credit  provider  to 
students, Smart Pig wouldve been aware that Mr Hs student loan payments would be paid 
three times a year  usually September, January and April.  
In other  words  on the face of it  when Mr H took Loan 3 he wasnt  due to receive  another  
student loan payment until September - having  received  the last one in April (from which  
hed already repaid Loan 2). Smart Pigs records show that it was aware Mr H was approved  
to receive £1,117.65 on 21 September 2015 as his next student  loan advance.  
Smart Pig has shared the results of the credit  file check it ran on Mr H before approving 
Loan 3. Mr H was now 19 years old. He had a total credit balance  of £1,658. He had four 
active accounts. His overdraft stood at £1,490 when his limit was £1,500. And there was 
evidence that he had started to borrow from other  payday lenders. For example hed taken 
one loan and repaid  it at the end of May and then taken another on the same day for £150 
which hadnt yet been repaid.
Had it asked Mr H about his outgoings  Smart Pig would have again learnt that he was 
paying more than his student loan/grant  income  towards his rent. In both April and May hed 
paid £1,277 and it was due again at the point he borrowed Loan  3. I can see from his rent 
account that he paid it £1,239 on 1 July.  
I dont agree with Smart Pigs assertion that our adjudicator expected  it do a level of checks 
similar to those in mortgage  applications.  Although in some  circumstances a very high level 
of checks might be required  even for a short-term loan of a few hundred pounds.  Smart 
Pig had to do what was proportionate.
At the time Mr H took each of his three  loans  there  were factors  which shouldve led Smart 
Pig to conclude that it needed to do more than it chose  to do. As Mr H borrowed again and in 
the circumstances Ive outlined, so the checks shouldve increased.  Had Smart Pig done 
proportionate checks it wouldve  understood the precarious nature  of Mr Hs finances and 
concluded that it was unlikely hed be able to repay its loans without then having to go on 
and borrow again.  So I think  it acted unfairly  when  it provided all these  three loans, 
effectively trapping him into a cycle of having to take further high cost credit. So, I uphold  
Mr Hs complaint and Smart  Pig should  now put things  right.
Ref: DRN23216237Putting things  right
FCL Consumer Finance  Ltd trading as Smart-Pig.com shouldnt have provided the three 
loans to Mr H and should put things  right as set out below:
a)Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, fees and 
charges on these loans,  
b)Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr H which were 
considered as part of a), calculated from the date he originally  made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
c)Pay Mr H the total of a) plus b).
d)Remove any adverse  information it has recorded  on Mr Hs credit  file in relation to 
the three loans.  
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Smart Pig to deduct tax from this interest.  It should give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
 my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require FCL Consumer  
Finance Ltd to put things  right in the way Ive explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2321623