K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) lent her money that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss R took out five instalment  loans with Lending Stream  between  December 2013 and 
May 2014.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Rs complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
Lending Streams  checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one to three. 
The adjudicator thought  that Lending  Stream shouldve carried  out better  checks  before 
agreeing loans four and five. But as Miss R wasnt able to give us any evidence  of her 
outgoing at the time such as a credit  report or bank  statements, the adjudicator couldnt say 
what better checks wouldve shown.
Miss R disagrees with the adjudicators  recommendation. She says that she had more than 
£4,200 of debts and was paying off several  payday  lenders at once. Miss R says she was 
caught in a spiral  of debt. Miss R thinks that her low credit score, coupled with the fact that 
she had various accounts  running is proof  that she was using the loans  to live off and 
couldnt afford to repay them without borrowing elsewhere.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether 
Miss R could afford to pay each  loan back before it lent to her. There  wasnt a set list of 
checks it had to carry out. But the checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the 
amount borrowed,  the length  of the agreement and any borrowing history.  
loans one to three
Lending Stream asked  Miss R for details of her income and expenditure before agreeing 
loans one to three. Miss R said that her net monthly  income was around £1,500. She 
declared monthly expenses each  time of £840 to include  housing  costs, regular credit 
commitments and other expenses. 
Based on the information that Miss R gave about  her financial situation, it looked as though  
she could afford the repayments on loans one to three.  As I think  that Lending Streams 
checks were proportionate, it follows that I dont uphold  Miss Rs complaint about  these three  
loans.
loans four and five
By the time that Miss R borrowed  from Lending  Stream in April 2014 shed taken out three 
loans in the same chain  and hadnt  repaid loan three. This meant that Lending  Stream 
shouldve been  aware of Miss Rs lending history.
Ref: DRN23826192I think that by now Lending Stream shouldve had some concerns that Miss R might be using  
the loans for general living costs rather than to help with one-off expenses. The pattern of 
lending shouldve reasonably prompted  Lending  Stream to ask about Miss Rs other short  
term loans.
By the time that Miss R borrowed  from Lending  Stream for a fifth time her previous  two loans 
remained open. I think Lending Stream shouldve tried to gather a comprehensive picture of 
Miss Rs finances to make sure that she could  afford  the combined repayments. Lending 
Stream couldve done this in a variety of ways such as asking to see bills or bank 
statements. 
Just because I dont  think Lending Stream carried out adequate affordability checks, it 
doesnt necessarily  mean  that I must go on to uphold  Miss Rs complaint. I would need  to be 
persuaded that with better checks,  Lending  Stream wouldve decided not to lend one or both 
of the loans.
Miss R isnt able to send  us bank statements or other evidence of her finances from around 
the time of loans  four and five. This means that I cant be sure what Lending Stream 
wouldve seen had it carried  out the kinds of checks that I think were  proportionate.
Miss R says that she isnt able to send us a copy of the relevant page  of her credit  report  
that shows she owed  more than £4,200 in debts in 2014. Without seeing this, its difficult to 
know what periods  the debts relate  to. 
Although I can see from some of Miss Rs other  complaints with this service that she did take 
on some  other short term loans in 2014,  she did so after applying for loan five. This means  
that even with better checks, Lending Stream  wouldnt have known about them.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss R but without seeing  further evidence  of her outgoings  around  
the time of loans  four and five, I cant reasonably uphold  her complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2382619