K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Lex Autolease Ltd unfairly charged him fees at the end of his car hire 
agreement.
background
Mr H hired a car from Lex Autolease. The hire agreement expired in October  2018.  A few 
days before  the agreement was due to expire, he phoned Lex and arranged for the car to be 
collected. The first available date Lex could offer him was four days after the expiry of the 
hire agreement, and so Lex charged him for those  four days, a total of £23.81. Mr H says 
that the call handler  should have told him about these charges, and should have told him 
that he could drop the car off himself, instead  of having it collected.
The car was inspected when it was collected, and no damage  was found. However, after 
collection the car was inspected  again, and this time three dents were found,  for which  Mr H 
was invoiced £464. Mr H disputes that this damage exists, and says the dents cant  be seen 
in the photos supplied  by Lex. He complains  that he should have been given another  
inspection by a third party, in line with Lexs policy, but that this was not offered. He 
complains that Lex took the money  from his account without his permission. 
Lex said that six working days was a reasonable time in which to collect a hire car, and it 
was entitled to charge Mr H for the four days after the end of the hire period. The damage 
had not been noticed at the original inspection, because of the weather conditions  and 
because the second inspection was carried out by more qualified  people. The dents  were  
more than mere  wear and tear, according  to the BVRLA standards, and were evident in the 
photographs because  the reflection of the car parking space line (visible  on the side of the 
car in the photos) was distorted. Lex provided  an email it had sent to Mr H setting out the 
extra rental charges  and explaining that the first inspection would not be a full inspection, 
and that a full inspection  would be carried out on its premises.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He accepted that the photos  were adequate 
evidence of the damage, and that the email  had explained that there would be two 
inspections. He thought the charges were fair.
Mr H did not accept that opinion. He said that Lex probably hadnt  used  the fees to repair the 
car, and had just profited at his expense.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
I have read the hire agreement. Paragraphs 9(a), (b) and (f) of the terms and conditions say:
(a) You must  return the Goods to us when  the hiring  under the agreement  ends.
(b) The Goods must be returned at your expense
(f) If you fail to return the Goods when required  You must also continue to pay us 
sums equal to the rentals that applied immediately  before the termination of the 
hiring.
I think these terms make  it clear that the onus is on the hirer to return  the car, and that there 
will be additional rental charges for returning  the car late. So although  I agree it would have 
Ref: DRN20602942been better practice if the call handler had told Mr H that he could just return  the car himself, 
and had reminded him about  the charges, I dont think  her failure to do so is a reason to 
refund the charges. Mr H had agreed  to the charges  when he hired the car, and had been 
told about them.
Lex Autolease has suggested  that the rental charges were calculated incorrectly, and that 
they should actually have  been higher, but I dont agree. Lexs  email  states  that the daily rate 
is £4.96 plus VAT, and that Mr H would be charged for four days.  These figures are not in 
dispute. £4.96 x 1.2 x 4 = £23.81. So he was charged the correct amount.
I agree  that the dents are not directly visible in the photos. However,  the parking space line 
is clearly visible in the reflection on the side of the car, and it is clearly distorted in the areas  
where Lex says the dents  are. I think  the most likely  reason  for the distortions is that there 
are dents, and the affected areas  do seem  to be wider than 10mm. So on the balance of 
probabilities, I think the damage charges were correctly applied.
Paragraph 9(e) of the terms and conditions says:
(e) If the returned  Goods are not in reasonable condition for their age and mileage, 
you must also immediately pay us the cost of putting them in that condition or (if we 
choose) the reduction  in their value caused by them not being in reasonable 
condition. [Emphasis  added.]
So Lex Autolease doesnt have to spend  the charges on repairing the damage.  The charges 
reflect the depreciation of the vehicle.
Mr H has also complained  about  some aspects  of how Lex dealt with his complaint. 
However, my jurisdiction is restricted to complaints about a financial service or product. 
Complaints about  complaint-handling (albeit  that the complaint being handled concerned a 
financial service)  are not within scope,  and so I have not considered  that topic.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2060294