K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained about Motorplus  Limiteds  handling of her car insurance policy 
following an accident.
background
Mrs M had car insurance which she had taken out through a broker. The broker  sold and 
administered the policy. The business  that underwrote  the policy (the insurer)  is a separate 
business to the broker.  Motorplus are the brokers appointed claims agent  and deal with 
claims that are made by policyholders.
Mrs M was involved in an accident on 1 March 2019, so she called Motorplus to report it. 
Mrs M explained  what happened and said the other  driver was at fault for the accident  and 
that they had apologised. Motorplus call handler then told Mrs M that there were two options 
available to her as to how the claim could be dealt with.
The call handler explained  the first option  was to claim  directly  against the other  driver (in 
this case the other drivers insurer would be responsible for responding to the claim). The 
second option was to claim through her own policy. He said if Mrs M claimed through  her 
own policy she would have to pay her policy excess and her claim would remain  open until 
it was resolved. And having an open claim would put her no claims bonus (NCB) on hold 
until the claim was resolved and her insurance company recovered all its costs arising from 
the claim.
The call handler explained  that if Mrs M was confident the other  driver would admit  liability  
for the accident,  then she could claim directly against them. But he said it was up to her how 
she wanted to proceed.  Mrs M said the other driver had admitted liability so she wanted 
them to pay for the claim. Mrs M asked but you handle that for me? The call handler 
explained the process of claiming  against  the other driver directly.  He said Motorplus would 
appoint a claims management company (CMC) who would  do all the leg work  by arranging 
for Mrs Ms car to be repaired  and getting her a hire car to keep her mobile.  The CMC would 
then get the other drivers  insurer  to pay for all that. Also, by claiming  directly  against the 
other driver,  because it wasnt a claim on her policy she wouldnt have to pay the policy  
excess and her NCB wouldnt be affected.
After Mrs M was referred  to the CMC and things progressed, she complained that things 
went badly. She was unhappy  with how the whole process was dealt with. In her formal 
complaint to Motorplus  on 12 March 219, Mrs M complained that the whole case  has been 
disjointed and that she had been  getting calls from different companies; she was unhappy 
with the repairer  and the engineer; the total loss valuation of her car; and the solicitor 
appointed to deal with her uninsured losses.
Motorplus didnt uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. They  said they had merely  referred  her to the 
CMC who was responsible for dealing with her claim. Mrs M then brought her complaint to 
our service.  One of our investigators  looked  into it. She felt that Motorplus hadnt clearly 
explained to Mrs M her options when she first called to report the claim. Our investigator  felt 
Motorplus should  have explained the potential problems associated with claiming  directly  
against the other driver  through  a CMC. As Motorplus  didnt  agree  with our investigator,  the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 June 2020.  I said:
Ref: DRN22699042Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mrs M, but Im not intending to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
In her complaint, Mrs M has made  a number  of detailed points and Ive considered  all 
those very carefully.  But, in this decision,  I will focus on what  I consider to be the key 
issues. Im well aware of how stressful the whole process has been  for Mrs M, 
especially as she cares for her child who has additional needs and who was present 
in the car during the accident.  I also understand that one or both of Mrs M and her 
child may have suffered  injuries during the accident.  If they did, I hope they have fully 
recovered and dont have any lasting effects.
Im aware that Mrs M doesnt have any in-depth  car insurance industry knowledge.  
And I understand this may have been  her first ever claim resulting from a road traffic 
accident. And having listened to her call with Motorplus,  its clear to me she wasnt 
experienced with the process.
Claiming following  an accident can be a confusing process and there often are a 
number of different  parties involved.  This is quite usual within the car insurance 
industry. And parties  involved will often include the insurers, brokers, their various 
agents, CMCs, solicitors, engineers, repairing garages etc. But most of those parties  
would have been involved whether Mrs M claimed  through her insurer or via a CMC  
and I wouldn't  have  expected Motorplus to explain the entire process  during the initial 
call. My expectation of Motorplus during  the first call would be to give Mrs M sufficient 
information to enable her to make an informed decision  as to which option (claiming  
through her insurance policy or claiming  directly against the other  driver) she wanted 
to use.
Often claiming directly  against the other driver directly is suitable where its apparent 
they will be held at fault for the accident. Thats  because a CMC  will only want  to 
pursue such a claim on behalf  of the driver not at fault if the CMC  is almost  certain  
they will be able to recover all their costs.  And as Motorplus  call handler explained, 
there are a number of advantages. To name one, most insurers  dont provide their 
policyholder with a courtesy car if their car involved in the accident is a total loss, as 
was Mrs Ms. But a CMC will provide a hire car even  if the car was a total loss. And 
even where the car isnt a total loss, most insurers will only provide a small 
hatchback type car to keep their policyholder  mobile.  Whereas a CMC  will provide a 
similar car to the car involved  in the accident.  That can be useful, especially for 
motorists like Mrs M who have larger vehicles.
But turning  back  to the call between Motorplus  and Mrs M. I think the call handler  
gave sufficient information to Mrs M to enable her to make  an informed decision. And 
the problems she encountered after she was referred to the CMC were not the 
responsibility of Motorplus nor were  they foreseeable. To explain the potential pitfalls  
involved in using a CMC and what could go wrong would have taken a substantial 
amount of time. But that would equally apply  for a policyholder using their own 
insurer to claim  for their damage on their own policy. Our service receives countless 
complaints from policyholders  who are dissatisfied with how their claims have been 
dealt with by their own insurers. The types  of complaints, just to mention  a few, 
include: the claims process  has taken too long to resolve, in some cases  lasting 
Ref: DRN22699043years; the communication with the insurer has been poor, in some  cases non-
existent; the quality of the repairs have been  sub-standard; agents appointed by the 
insurer (such  as engineers) have been unprofessional; and the valuation placed on a 
car after suffering  a total loss has been unfair.
So, for Motorplus to have  fully explained to Mrs M the benefits and potential 
problems involved in using either  of the two options  could  have  lasted hours. And 
that is not what I would  have  expected and I think that would have caused  more 
confusion for Mrs M. And as Motorplus have said, after they referred  her to the CMC 
the expectation was that the CMC,  and any other  party to become involved (such  as 
an engineer, a repairer or a solicitor) would have  explained  their role. But as Ive 
said, Im only looking  at the actions of Motorplus to see if they were reasonable when 
they spoke with Mrs M and referred her to the CMC. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think their actions were reasonable, so Im not intending to uphold this 
complaint.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Motorplus didnt comment.  Mrs M said 
she didnt agree with my provisional decision. She also said she still hasnt received a refund 
of her premium following the cancellation  of her policy.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. If Mrs M feels she is entitled  to a premium refund,  that is something she has to take 
up with the insurer  of her policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2269904