K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say GE Money Home Finance Limited (then First National Bank  Plc) mis-sold  
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which is attached  and forms part 
of this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I thought Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  
In summary,  this was because I thought  it was likely  Mr and Mrs M had taken out a loan for 
£10,000 in October  2002, which was repaid in October 2003 and that PPI had been  sold to 
protect this loan. I thought it was unlikely Mr and Mrs M had been given enough information 
about that PPI to make an informed decision about  taking  it out. And had they been given 
better information, I didnt  think  they would have taken it out.
Mr and Mrs M responded to my provisional  decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
GE Money  responded  to say it didnt agree with what  Id said. It said there was no reference  
in my provisional decision to information from the insurers  confirming no PPI policy 
existed/was ever put on risk. It said it would accept bank statements from Mr and Mrs M to 
show the loan was drawn down or monthly payments were being  made  in line with the 
amounts detailed on the credit agreement Mr and Mrs M had provided.  It reiterated that it 
has no record of Mr and Mrs M having PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
While GE Money has referred to the insurers confirming  no PPI policy existed/was ever put 
on risk what it had actually told us previously  was that having checked  with the insurers  
who have confirmed no record  of PPI was located. There is a difference  between these two 
statements. And GE Money  hasnt provided  any evidence  to show the insurers  have said 
theres no possibility  the PPI policy  existed  only that they dont have a record  of a policy.
I appreciate GE Money and the insurers arent  able to find any record  of Mr and Mrs M 
having a PPI policy. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think this is enough  
to show the loan and PPI policy didnt  go ahead  given how long ago the loan was repaid 
and the PPI would have  ended, it isnt surprising  there arent any records. 
Ive found that the other evidence, that is available, persuasive and Im satisfied its more  
likely than not Mr and Mrs M took out loan for £10,000 in October 2002 and that this loan 
was protected  by a PPI policy, as set out on the credit agreement  Mr and Mrs M provided. 
GE Money  has provided  no further evidence or arguments in relation to my provisional  
findings that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So I can see no reason to reach  a different 
decision about that now. It follows that I still think the PPI policy was mis-sold and that Mr 
and Mrs M have lost out because of this.
putting things right
Ref: DRN21766192Mr and Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it would have. So Mr and Mrs M need  to get back  the extra  theyve paid.
So, GE Money should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what they paid each month  on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan 
and what it would  have cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs M paid from when they paid it until 
they get it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  GE Money  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires GE Money to take off tax from this interest. GE Money 
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
I also think this complaint should have been resolved much sooner. GE Money  had all the 
evidence Mr and Mrs M have  provided  to us and this should  have been enough to show  they 
had taken out a loan and PPI. But despite being presented with this evidence,  GE Money 
refused to consider the complaint. This has caused  Mr and Mrs M additional trouble and 
upset. So I also think GE Money  should  pay Mr and Mrs M a further £100 to recognise this.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. GE Money Home Finance Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say GE Money Home Finance Limited (then  First National Bank Plc) mis-sold them a 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M complained to GE Money that they were mis-sold PPI when they took out a loan in 
2002. GE Money said it couldnt find any record of Mr and Mrs M having a PPI policy. So it didnt 
investigate their complaint.
Ref: DRN21766193Our adjudicator thought there was enough  evidence  to show  Mr and Mrs M had PPI. They also 
thought complaint should  be upheld. GE Money disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
did Mr and Mrs M have a PPI policy?
Before I can go on to decide whether Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy was mis-sold, I must  first decide  if 
they were sold one. GE Money says there isnt enough evidence to show they were. I disagree.
Mr and Mrs M have  provided  us with a copy of a credit agreement for a loan for £10,000 plus extra 
borrowing of £1,355.87 for a Protected payment premium. GE Money  says this copy  isnt signed so it 
doesnt show  the loan went ahead  but I dont  think  this is surprising as its likely  the signed copy went  
back to the lender.
Mr and Mrs M have  also provided a copy of letter  confirming their application for a personal  loan has 
been accepted. This says In order to receive  your cheque without delay, we require all parties  named 
to sign,  date and return one copy  of the Credit Agreement, along  with the signed direct debit 
mandate. This supports  what  Ive said above about the reason why Mr and Mrs Ms copy of the credit 
agreement isnt signed.
Mr and Mrs M also have a copy of a letter dated 9 October  2003 they sent to First National Bank 
asking for a settlement  figure  for the loan.  The account number quoted on this letter is the same as 
the quote  reference on both the credit agreement and acceptance letter they were  sent  so its likely 
they were referring to the £10,000 loan set out on the copy of the credit  agreement.
And then theres  a letter from First National Bank dated 16 October 2003 providing the settlement 
figure for a loan. While  the account number  quoted on this is different  to the quote reference on the 
credit agreement, acceptance letter and Mr and Mrs Ms letter asking  for a settlement figure, I think  
its likely  this related  to the same loan that was set out on the copy of the credit agreement. So it 
shows the loan went ahead and most likely  included  a Protected  payment premium,  in other words, 
PPI.
I appreciate GE Money isnt able to find any record of the loan or PPI policy but I dont think  this 
shows the loan and PPI policy didnt go ahead  the other evidence shows it did. And given it looks 
like the loan was repaid  in October  2003, its understandable that there are no longer any records of it 
or the associated PPI policy.
Having considered  everything, I think its likely Mr and Mrs M took out a loan for £10,000 in October  
2002 and this was repaid  in October  2003. I also think its likely there was PPI sold to protect this loan 
 as set out on the credit  agreement.
was the PPI policy mis-sold?  
Given how long ago the PPI was sold,  theres  not much information about how the sale took place or 
how Mr and Mrs M ended up with PPI. Theyve said they applied for the loan over the phone and by 
post, which, is supported  by the limited evidence  available.
Ref: DRN21766194Our adjudicator assessed  the complaint  assuming First National recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
M. GE Money hasnt said anything about what the sales process would have been like at the time. But 
even if the PPI hadnt  been recommend to Mr and Mrs M, First National should have made sure they 
got the information  they needed to decide it was right for them. I dont think  its likely  it did.
First National should have drawn  to Mr and Mrs Ms attention and highlighted  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. I can see 
from the acceptance  letter,  Mr and Mrs M are likely  to have been provided  with a brochure that, 
according to the letter, would have explained the benefits of the PPI. And its likely this would have  
included information  about the limitations  and exclusions. But just providing a brochure,  wouldnt have 
been enough  to highlight these to Mr and Mrs M.
One of the significant exclusions was that the PPI wouldnt  provide cover for any disability caused by 
any condition which Mr and Mrs M knew about (or ought reasonably to have known  about) at the start 
date of the PPI.
I think  its likely Mr M was the person covered  by the PPI because  Mrs M wasnt working at the time. 
And hes told us he had a medical condition  that had been diagnosed  in 1997. If hed been unable to 
work because  of this condition, he wouldnt have been able to make a disability claim.  So I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs M would  have taken out the PPI if theyd known about this.
Another significant feature of the PPI was that it would  remain in force if the loan was settled  before 
the scheduled end date, unless Mr and Mrs M asked for it to be cancelled.  If they asked for it to be 
cancelled then the refund  they received would have been limited and not proportional  to the time 
theyd had the cover.  This made the PPI inflexible.
I think  Mr and Mrs M needed  a flexible  arrangement because theyve  said they were using the loan to 
consolidate other debts to reduce their overall  outgoings. This suggests  they were more  likely  to 
refinance before  the end of the 60 month term of the loan. As it turned out, they paid off the loan after 
about a year. I think its unlikely  they would have agreed to take out the PPI if theyd been given better 
information about what would happen if they paid off their loan early.
Overall, I currently dont think Mr and Mrs M would have bought the PPI if First National had given 
them enough information  about it. So I think theyve lost out because of what  First National did wrong.
putting things  right
Mr and Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve been. They  
paid more  than they shouldve each month and it cost them more to repay  the loan than it would have. 
So Mr and Mrs M need to get back the extra theyve paid.
So, GE Money should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what they paid each month on the loan 
and what they wouldve  paid without PPI.  
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what it cost to pay off the loan and what it 
would have  cost to pay off the loan without PPI.
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr and Mrs M paid from when they paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, GE Money can take off what  they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  GE Money to take off tax from this interest. GE Money  must  give 
Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN21766195I also think  this complaint should have been resolved  much sooner. GE Money had all the evidence 
Mr and Mrs M have  provided  to us and this should have been enough  to show they had taken  out a 
loan and PPI. But despite  being presented with this evidence, GE Money  refused to consider the 
complaint. This has caused  Mr and Mrs M additional trouble  and upset. So I also think GE Money  
should pay Mr and Mrs M a further  £100  to recognise  this.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and tell GE Money Home  
Finance Limited to put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2176619