K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy with the premiums charged  on his home insurance with 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc. 
background 
Mr Ss insurance policy was taken out with St Andrews in 2009  and cost £709.91 for the 
year. In 2011  Mr S contacted St Andrews  and made  amendments  to his policy which  
resulted in the premiums increasing. For 2016 Mr Ss policy  quote  was £1,587.03. Mr S 
contacted St Andrews  in 2016  to discuss adding a valuable item to his policy. Mr S says he 
was told this wasnt available on his existing policy so he checked  with another business  and 
was offered a much  cheaper policy. He decided  not to renew  his policy.
Mr S thinks  St Andrews has taken advantage of him by unfairly increasing the cost of the 
policy every  year. He says he was charged  too much and should be reimbursed for the extra  
he paid over the years. 
St Andrews  offered to refund some of the cost of the insurance  for the 2012 premium 
onward. It offered  £119.01 as a refund of some of the premiums  and 8% additional 
compensation for Mr S being out of pocket  of that money. St Andrews has also offered a 
further £200 as compensation  for the trouble and upset Mr S has been  caused. Our 
adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things.
Mr S disagreed and didnt  think the offer was fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether St Andrews has treated Mr S fairly throughout the period he held his 
insurance policy. 
If I find that St Andrews  hasnt treated Mr S fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and in this case whether  I think what St Andrews has offered is fair.
When Mr Ss policy started in 2009, it cost £709.91  for the year. St Andrews says Mr Ss 
policy had an introductory discount.  This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially  be 
priced lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek  to recoup 
that cost over the first few years. Presumably Mr S was happy with the price at that time as 
he decided to go ahead and take out the policy. If he wasnt happy with what  St Andrews 
was offering, he could  have gone elsewhere to get a different policy.
It seems  one of the reasons Mr Ss premium increased was because  he amended the cover  
in 2011 and at that time he was told how the changes in cover  would  increase  his premium. 
Again, I can only assume he was happy with the price St Andrews  was offering.
Ref: DRN28382062But if St Andrews continued  to increase the price just because  Mr S didnt engage at 
subsequent renewals, that wouldnt be fair. St Andrews has offered to refund some of the 
costs of the insurance premiums from 2012  onwards.   
St Andrews  has offered  to keep Mr Ss premiums from 2013 at the same  amount he was 
charged in 2012  so £1,308.02.  So it will refund the difference  on the payments he made on 
his premiums from 2013 onward. For example, Mr Ss premium in 2012 was £1,308.02. St 
Andrews has offered to refund the difference between  the 2012  and 2013  premiums, plus 
interest. And its done this for 2014  also. The 2015 premium dropped below what  it was in 
2012 so St Andrews  hasnt refunded anything for that year, and the policy  wasnt renewed in 
2016 so no premiums were paid that year. So St Andrews  total offer is £119.01 plus interest 
of 8% for the time he was out of pocket.  
Mr S says in 2016 he was offered  a quote  on an alternative policy  that was considerably 
cheaper than his existing policy. He feels he was hugely overcharged for the previous seven 
years. He says hed settle for £1,000 refund.  Ive thought about this. But as weve explained 
previously, theres  no right or wrong  price that an insurer  can charge for the cover it 
provides. It was up to Mr S to decide  if he wanted  the policy based on the price  St Andrews 
offered it for. I must also take into account  that any new policy quoted  in 2016 possibly 
included a discount on the premium  cost and different insurers will have a different view of 
the risk of insuring a particular property. So I cant agree Mr S was treated unfairly by St 
Andrews just because  hes now been able to get cheaper cover. 
Having considered St Andrews offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mr S hasnt lost out if 
St Andrews  did increase  the price just because he didnt engage at each renewal.
I also think St Andrews additional compensation offer of £200 that it made  later on for the 
trouble caused  to Mr S, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, St Andrew's Insurance Plcs offer to refund some of the costs  
of Mr Ss policy from 2012 is fair.
St Andrews  Insurance Plcs additional  compensation offer of £200  for the trouble caused to 
Mr S is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2838206