K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs B bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a loan. She applied for the 
loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £105.16  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over 12 months and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly  loan 
repayment was £90.21  with the PPI costing an additional £9.49 making the total monthly 
repayment £99.70. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay her monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability or unemployment claim. 
At the time,  Mrs B was self-employed.  She has told us she wasnt  entitled to any sick pay 
and didnt have  any other means  of repaying her loan should  she be unable to work.  In our 
consumer questionnaire, Mrs B said she had two medical conditions at the time of the sale.  
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Bs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mrs B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Bs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mrs B about the poor value;
 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs B and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN23523672As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs complaint
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN23523673The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Bs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs B know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds have provided a copy of the credit agreement  which  Mrs B signed. I can see that on 
this agreement the PPI is clearly described  as optional. And theres a pre-printed cross in the 
place provided  on the agreement to indicate  that Mrs B wanted the cover. I think its most 
likely that the bank representative  that Mrs B spoke  to discussed the PPI cover  with her and 
then included the cross and other  PPI details on the agreement after shed agreed to take it. 
Ref: DRN23523674Before signing the agreement, I think Mrs B would have been  likely to query why the PPI 
cover  described as optional  had been added to her loan in this way if she hadnt said she 
wanted it. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide advice?
Lloyds say this was an advised sale and from what Ive seen I think this is likely to have 
been the case.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs B. It seems Mrs B cant remember clearly what  happened and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Mrs B would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Mrs B had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs B given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs B, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mrs B had a need for the policy   she wouldnt have  received any sick pay if she 
was unable to work  due to illness and she didnt have any savings she could fall back  
on. The policy would have helped Mrs B manage the consequences were she unable 
to work.
-Although Mrs B says she was financially stretched at the time, I havent seen 
anything to make me think the monthly cost of £9.49 for the policy was unaffordable 
for her.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs B. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Bs self-employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. 
Regarding pre-existing  medical conditions, I havent seen anything which makes me 
think that these  would have made the policy unsuitable for Mrs B. From  the 
Ref: DRN23523675information which has been provided by Mrs B, it doesnt look as if the condition 
which caused her to have an operation some six years before the sale resulted  in her 
having continuing problems with this condition after the operation, resulting in her 
taking further  time off. So it would not seem  unreasonable for Lloyds to recommend 
the PPI policy  even if it had been  told about  this past condition by Mrs B. There  
doesnt seem to have  been a reason to think that it would be particularly  likely  to be 
the cause of Mrs B taking  time off work  in the future and she didnt have any other 
means of making  her loan repayments  if she couldnt work. So I still think the policy 
gave her useful protection, notwithstanding this medical condition. 
Mrs B also say she has suffered from another  medical condition in the past. But she 
wasnt able to say when she first experienced this condition. And she says she didnt 
take any medicine for it or take any time off work  because of it. So I dont think  I 
could fairly  conclude that this condition made the policy unsuitable for Mrs B either.  
There were also no additional  restrictions in the policy on cover  for mental health or 
back problems.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs B was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs B would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. And I think Mrs B knew that the single premium  being added 
to the loan was £105.16  and the monthly  cost was £9.49 (as this information was, in my 
view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreement Mrs B signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, sufficient information about  the cost  for 
example the loan agreement does not show the total cost of the policy over the term of the 
loan, including  interest - or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mrs B agreed to take 
out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs B Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mrs B. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mrs B all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN23523676PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Bs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say, I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings have  on Mrs B? To what extent did Mrs B suffer loss 
or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs B 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs B 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs B, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs B says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
Ref: DRN23523677wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Bs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs B knew  she was borrowing the money  to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost £9.49 a month, it doesnt appear  Lloyd told her the 
total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest. Having  said that, given the 
loan was relatively small and interest  would only accrue over 12 months,  and the interest 
would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Mrs B realised, I dont think  it 
likely the missing cost information would have  affected her decision to buy the policy  in her 
circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mrs B would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Bs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs B thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs B 
knew about or ought reasonably to have known about before the start date of the 
policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy may not have provided a pro-rata refund if Mrs B repaid the loan early and 
the policy was cancelled, so it would have  been  more expensive for her to have done 
so; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs B pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs B from taking  out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs B says she had two medical condition 
- either around or some time before - the policy was taken out and the policy may not have 
provided cover had she needed time off work because of one of these condition,  for the 
Ref: DRN23523678reasons Ive already explained,  I dont  think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put her off agreeing to it. . 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mrs B would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. Although  she was self-employed when the PPI was taken  out, it 
doesnt look like it would  have been harder for her to make a claim if she became 
unemployed than someone who was permanently employed. A pro-rata refund might not 
have been paid if Mrs B cancelled  the policy early, but the loan term was relatively  short and 
there is nothing to suggest  (at the time) that Mrs B had plans to repay the loan early. And the 
purpose of the loan doesnt appear  to have been for debt consolidation or anything  else 
which might  suggest a need to repay  the loan early, or that this was likely  to happen. So I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs B would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs B had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs B was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs B would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  she to become unemployed, or unable to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs B would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN23523679circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs B 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs B in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mrs B compensation, as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs B in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2021.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2352367