K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains she has been treated unfairly  by The Co-operative  Bank Plc (The Co-op) 
when she attempted  to set up a standing order over the phone.
background
Mrs C holds a bank  account with The Co-op  and called them on 20 May 2019 to set up a 
payment instruction for her rent. But The Co-op were unable  to carry out Mrs Cs request  
because she failed  to answer all of their security questions correctly.  As a result, they said 
shed have to go into branch with identification  to set up the payment instead.
Mrs C was unhappy with this because her closest branch was some  distance away,  and she 
only had a few days left before her rent was due. She complained about the way she was 
treated by The Co-op, as she says she is taking medication and suffers  with her mental  
health, and she believes they failed to consider  her circumstances and just kept repeating 
themselves. 
Mrs C says that during  the call she was becoming more and more upset, and said to the 
operative that youll  be the death of me, which led to The Co-op contacting  the police who 
arrived at her address.  She said the whole experience has had a significant impact on her 
mental health, and that she felt bullied and humiliated by the staff on the phone.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think The Co-op had acted unfairly by 
asking Mrs C to go into branch because they couldnt be sure if they were talking to the right 
person. The investigator  also didnt think theyd  acted  inappropriately by sending the police 
to her address to conduct a welfare  check, given the words she had used  during  the phone  
call. Mrs C disagreed and said she was also unhappy that The Co-op had told her she could 
set up a direct debit with her property management company, as it later turned out she could 
not do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Ive listened to the relevant phone  calls that form the basis  of Mrs Cs complaint to determine 
whether I think she was treated unfairly or inappropriately.  Mrs C wanted to set up a 
standing order and was passed through to The Co-ops fraud  team as she hadnt answered 
the initial security questions correctly. The operative explained that if she didnt answer the 
next questions  correctly, she would have to visit her branch to set up the payment 
instruction. So when Mrs C failed to answer the additional security questions correctly,  she 
was told she would  have  to visit her local branch.
Mrs C says she wasnt given the breathing  space  to answer the security questions  properly. 
But having  listened to the call, I didnt hear anything that would suggest she was rushed or 
pressured into answering any of the questions before she was ready. Mrs C also says that 
her circumstances were not considered or adjusted for appropriately.  But The Co-op  say 
they hadnt been made aware  of Mrs Cs specific circumstances beforehand. So I wouldnt 
have expected them to have implemented or known about any reasonable adjustments that 
Ref: DRN29858642might be required when  talking to Mrs C, although  theyve since said theyve placed  a note 
on her account so that can take her circumstances  into consideration in the future.  
Mrs C says that she felt bullied and humiliated when  talking to The Co-op and that the whole  
experience has had a detrimental  impact on her mental health. I understand that Mrs C was 
left frustrated and upset by not being  able to set up her standing order  over the phone.  And I 
appreciate that it was very inconvenient for her to visit her local branch. But The Co-op has a 
duty to safeguard the accounts  and personal data of their customers. And in the 
circumstances, they were unable to verify  who they were  talking  to because Mrs C didnt 
answer all the security questions correctly.  So I dont think theyve acted  unreasonably  by 
subsequently asking Mrs C to visit her branch with identification to set up the payment, as 
they had reason to believe the person they were speaking to may not have been Mrs C. This 
is also in line with their account terms and conditions. So while I can appreciate this left Mrs 
C feeling upset,  The Co-op were only acting  to safeguard her account  and I dont  think 
theyve acted unreasonably in doing  so. 
In terms of the service  Mrs C received, I also dont think the operatives she spoke to acted 
inappropriately or can be said to have bullied her. One of the operatives  even  suggested 
alternatives for Mrs C to pay her rent as she wanted to help ensure she paid it on time. But 
Mrs C was not happy that she was told to set up a direct debit with her property 
management company  as one of these potential options, as she was eventually  told by the 
company that they couldnt do this.
I understand that Mrs C may have felt frustrated by this, but the operative was simply listing 
various alternative options for Mrs C to pay her rent. The operative  even  said that if direct 
debit was not an option, then Mrs C could  also see if she could pay her rent by debit card 
until she could go into branch. She was not told that the property management  company  
could definitely  set up a direct  debit, and I can see that Mrs C was subsequently able to pay 
her rent on time. So it doesnt  appear  that the information Mrs C was given led to her 
suffering any form on loss in any event.
Ive also considered whether it was inappropriate for The Co-op  to send the police to Mrs Cs 
address after shed hung up the phone. Mrs C said she made a throwaway comment along 
the lines of the bank  being the death  of her. But having listened  to the call, I dont think  this is 
how it would  have been construed. Mrs C said to the operative that shed have to contact the 
Samaritans because youve really unsettled the balance with me and you will have my 
death on your hands because  I cannot deal with this. In the circumstances,  and given that 
Mrs C was upset, I do not think the operative  acted inappropriately by referring  this matter to 
the police, as I think Mrs Cs comment could be construed as a threat to her wellbeing  as 
opposed to a throwaway comment,  particularly as she mentioned having to contact the 
Samaritans. 
I appreciate that Mrs C became upset as a result of the calls she had with The Co-op,  and 
that this has had a detrimental impact on her mental health. But it appears that the main  
cause of this distress was Mrs C failing the security questions and having to find another 
way to pay her rent, which  I cant fairly  ask The Co-op to compensate her for. 
Overall, I dont  think theyve treated Mrs C unfairly, or that any of their operatives said or did 
anything that was inappropriate in the circumstances, particularly because  they were not 
sure whether  they were in fact talking to Mrs C. So I will not be asking them  to do anything 
further. 
Ref: DRN29858643my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2985864