K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside a 
further advance  in 1999. The policy was taken out in both Mr and Mrs Ls names  and the 
policy benefits split 50/50. Mr and Mrs L say Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs L and Lloyds. Lloyds shouldve  
made Mr and Mrs L aware the policy was optional. Mr and Mrs L say they werent  given an 
option. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to give us much information from the time of sale, such as an 
application form for the PPI. This is understandable as the further advance was arrange 20 
years ago. So Ive considered  Mr and Mrs Ls comments  along with what  we know about 
how Lloyds sold this type of policy to decide  what is more like to have happened. 
From what  we know, Lloyds normally made  it clear  to customers they had a choice  about  
opting for the PPI and got their agreement to have it added  to their mortgages. What  
Mr and Mrs L have told us in itself isnt enough to make me think Lloyds  didnt follow its 
normal process here. 
So, overall I think its more likely  that Lloyds made it clear to Mr and Mrs L they had a 
choice about taking the PPI and they agreed to it. But given how long ago this all 
happened, I can understand why they cant remember this.
Based on my experience of how Lloyds usually  sold these policies at the time, I think  its 
likely it gave Mr and Mrs L advice about  whether  to buy the policy.  So it had to check  it was 
right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances  they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Neither of them was affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr and Mrs L say they received some sick pay benefits from their employers but the policy 
wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay benefits, as well as covering them  both if they lost 
their jobs.  Mr and Mrs L say they didnt have  any other means  such as savings  they 
couldve used so it seems  they had a need for the policy. Mr and Mrs L were borrowing 
funds against  a large and long term financial commitment,  which  was secured on their 
home. So I think having the security  that their mortgage repayments  would be made if 
either of them  were unable to work  would have  been important to them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs L chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it looks like the policy would have been  useful for them  if something  
went wrong. 
Ref: DRN23134742It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs L off taking out the cover.  Which  means  Lloyds doesnt  
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr and Mrs L feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome.  Theyve  put 
time and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about everything they have 
told us, including  what they have said about refunds  they have received on other  
complaints. But Ive only looked at the details of this complaint and I have explained the 
reasons why I dont  think Mr and Mrs L have  lost out due to anything Lloyds might have 
done wrong. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2313474