K821x#15complaint
Mr L, represented by Ms L, complains  that the loan provided to him by Loans 2 Go Limited  
was unaffordable.
background
Mr L received a loan from Loans 2 Go for £1,000 in May 2016. He says that at the time of 
the loan he was in a desperate situation and that the loan was provided without adequate 
checks being carried out. He says the wrong income amount was used and his rent wasnt  
taken into account.  He says that had the information been correct  Loans 2 Go would have  
realised the loan wasnt affordable.
Loans 2 Go says that before the loan was provided  it gathered information about  Mr Ls 
income and expenses as well as carrying out a credit check. It says its checks  were  in line 
with the guidelines in place at the time. It says the checks showed the loan was affordable. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She didnt  think the checks  carried out before the loan 
was provided were sufficient. She said further information about Mr Ls financial 
circumstances should have been  gathered and that had this happened she felt Loans 2 Go 
would have realised  the loan repayments  couldnt be made in a sustainable way. Because of 
this she recommended that the interest  and charges on the loan be refunded along with 
interest.
Loans 2 Go didnt respond to our adjudicators view and so this complaint was passed for 
review by an ombudsman
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend to Mr L, Loans  2 Go had to make sure that he could afford to repay 
the loan. Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What  is proportionate depends on 
things like - but not limited  to - the size of the loan, the repayments, what  Loans  2 Go knew 
about Mr L, and things Mr L told it about his circumstances.
Mr L was provided with a £1,000 loan in May 2016,  repayable over 18 months. The monthly 
repayment amounts  were  around £195.
Before the loan was provided I can see that information about Mr Ls income and expenses 
was gathered and that a credit check took place. While these  checks could be seen as 
sufficient, it is important  that the information  gathered is fully considered and that in the 
event concerns are raised that further  checks take place.
Mr L provided evidence  of his income for the three months prior to the loan. In 
February 2016, his net pay was around £1,740,  and in March and April 2016,  it was just over 
£900. I understand that Loans 2 Go averaged these three months of pay to get the income  
figure. 
In this case I dont think  that was the correct approach.  I say this because  the two months  
prior to the loan both recorded  a net pay of just over £900, this was substantially different to 
Ref: DRN25877682the February pay. The pay records  also showed  Mr Ls total pay (before tax and national 
insurance) for the year ending March 2016  was around £11,500. The loan was repayable  
over 18 months and so Mr L would  need to have  a monthly income each month sufficient  to 
meet his repayments.  Based on the information in Mr Ls pay records I think  it would have  
been reasonable for Loans  2 Go to have  used the monthly pay amount of just over £900 as 
Mr Ls monthly income figure.
In a response sent by the company that is currently dealing  with this account  it was 
suggested that even with the lower income  figure  the loan repayments would have been 
affordable. I have considered this.
Mr L provided information about his normal living costs.  These  didnt include rent which  has 
been noted by Mr L. However on the income  and expenses form completed before the loan 
was provided it notes that a family  member  owns the house  outright and no amount for rent 
is included. I dont  find it unreasonable  that Mr Ls information was relied  on in regard to his 
housing costs. 
I have also looked  at the other costs Mr L has included for items such  as food, social  and 
vehicle insurance.  While  I accept he was living with family and so may not have been 
responsible for many  costs I find the figures  included were low.
A credit check was carried out before the loan was provided. This showed that Mr L had a 
judgement recorded against within the previous 12 months and two defaults. This suggests  
that Mr L was experiencing issues managing his finances. This report also showed that he 
had other  debts and while  I note three credit cards  were recorded  in the expenses form, the 
payments to these were  low. The report also showed another loan on which  the monthly 
payments were just over £100.  
Overall, given the information in Mr Ls credit report,  the duration  of the loan and the low 
expenses Mr L had included, I think that further  checks should have been  carried  out to 
ensure the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr L.
Taking income as around £900,  if Mr Ls expenses  had been £450 as recorded  by Loans 2 
Go this would have left Mr L with a monthly  disposable income of around £350.  After the 
loan repayments,  this would have left Mr L with around £150.  However,  had Loans 2 Go 
included the additional amount for credit commitments shown on his credit file and more  
reasonable amounts for his living expenses,  I think it would have realised the repayments 
werent sustainably  affordable.
I have looked  through  Mr Ls bank statements from the time and can see that his financial  
commitments were  higher  than he had set out in the information  provided to Loans 2 Go. 
They also show, as did his credit  report, that Mr L was making use of short  term loan 
providers and that his outgoings  were similar to his income. 
On balance, I think that further  assessment  should have taken place and that had this 
happened, Loans 2 Go would have realised  the loan wasnt sustainably  affordable.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Loans  2 Go Limited should:
refund  any interest and charges  applied to the loan; 
Ref: DRN25877683add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ls credit  file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Loans 2 Go Limited must give Mr L a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Mr L didnt repay all of his final loan to Loans  2 Go Limited That debt has now been  
transferred to a third party company.  I dont know whether Mr L has repaid any of this debt to 
the debt collection  company.
It seems  reasonable that if Mr L still owes the capital  he borrowed that the refund due to him 
should be used  to reduce that debt.  But to do so Loans 2 Go Limited must first take the debt 
back into its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital that Mr L borrowed less any 
repayments he has made. If Loans 2 Go Limited  is unable, or unwilling, to do this it must 
ensure that its interest and charges, and any other interest and charges added  by the debt 
collection company,  are refunded to Mr L so he can choose whether to use the 
compensation to settle his debt directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2587768