K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that Arval UK Limited  imposed unfair charges for collection having failed to 
collect his car on two occasions
Background 
Mr Cs hire agreement came  to an end and the collection agent acting for Arval  armed  to 
collect the car 30 August 2018.  He noted there was bulge in a tyre and refused to take the 
car away. Mr C explained  that the car had passed its MOT a few days earlier  and says he 
was told the car was roadworthy. However, he had a new tyre fitted  and collection was 
arranged for 3 September. Arval charged Mr C £163.80 for the aborted  visit. Mr C was also 
charged £340 for damages which I gather he doesnt dispute.  
The car wasnt collected due to an administrative error by the agent and a third date was 
agreed. The agent went to the wrong  address and even though it was only a few minutes  
away refused to deviate from his route.  The car was finally collected on 11 September.
Mr C complained and Arval wrote off charges  for the failed collections and offered him 
compensation of £120. Mr C said he had taken time off work and had lost money as a result  
the agents errors and suggested he be compensated £750. Arval said it didnt compensate  
customers for lost earnings  and it was open to Mr C to have arranged for the car to be 
collected from his place of work. Mr C explained  that his insurance had run out and so he 
couldnt drive the car.
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He thought the offer of £120  was fair compensation. Mr C didnt agree and said he 
was prepared to pay Arval £120  to cover the damages. Arval  didnt  agree  to this offer.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I noted Mr C hadnt  challenged the charge for damages and so I took that to be accepted by 
all parties. I had looked at the photo  of the tyre and could see there was bulge in the wall 
and so I thought  it reasonable for the agent to refuse to collect the car on the first attempt. 
It was also clear to me that the agent  failed to collect  the car on two occasions and this 
caused Mr C a degree of inconvenience. I thought  this was exacerbated  by the fact that on 
one occasion  it would  have been possible  for collection  to have taken place had the agent 
shown some flexibility. I also noted  that Mr C said that the customer service  of the agent left 
something to be desired.
I said Arval had charged Mr C £163.80  for the aborted visit and while  I didnt think  it should 
match this in compensating  him for the failed visits I considered he was entitled to a larger  
sum of compensation. I didnt consider it should pay the claimed lost earnings, but I 
considered a sum of £250 to be more appropriate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24173462Arval agreed with my proposal and Mr C correctly noted I had referred to an erroneous figure 
for the damages  charge  which I am happy to correct in this final decision. The correct figure 
is as started above, £340. As neither  party have challenged  my proposal it follows that it 
remains unaltered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Arval  UK Limited  to pay 
compensation of £250. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2417346