K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr M says the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I cant know what was discussed with Mr M at the meeting at the bank. Mr M says he 
wasnt told about PPI. RBS has sent in a copy of Mr Ms credit  card application form. 
On it, theres a section  about  PPI. To take out PPI, the customer  had to select  the 
box saying they wanted it. The box couldve been left blank if they didnt want  PPI. 
There is a tick in the box on Mr Ms application  saying that he wants PPI. Mr M didnt 
opt to take card protection.  Mr M signed  the application form. So, I think it likely that 
Mr M wouldve understood these were  optional products and he didnt  have to take 
them. I can understand why he may not remember that now,  given  how much time 
has passed. 
I dont think RBS recommended  the PPI to Mr M. So, it didnt have to check that it 
was suitable for him. But, it still had to give him information that was clear, fair and 
not misleading about the PPI so that Mr M could decide for himself  if it was right for 
him and he wanted to buy it. Mr M said he wouldve got benefits through work and 
didnt need PPI as a result. I cant see that the policy was inappropriate for him. Ill 
explain why.
oHe was eligible  to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.  
oI cant see that he was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. 
oThe policy wouldve  paid out on top of Mr Ms work benefits, allowing him to 
use these to meet his other household expenses. The policy  wouldve paid 
out for up to 12 months per successful  claim.  
Mr M says the information he was given about PPI wasnt clear. Its possible the 
information RBS gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like 
it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr Ms said, but these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN22103172Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2210317