K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Personal Touch Financial  Services  Ltd (PTFS)  mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr and Mrs N took out PPI at the same time as applying for a secured loan for the 
purpose of home improvements.  The PPI was a single premium policy, so the premium  in 
this case £2,880  was added to the loan upfront where it attracted interest over the 25 year 
term of the loan. The PPI had a term of five years  and would pay out for up to 12 months  per 
claim. The benefit equalled the monthly mortgage  payment.
The policy was in Mr Ns sole name. At the time of the sale he was employed  and he told us 
he was entitled  to statutory sick pay. He also said he was in good health at the time.
Statements from the lender show that Mr and Mrs N redeemed the loan in 2007.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld.  They  said PTFS failed  to properly 
disclose the cost of PPI to Mr and Mrs N. They  said they didnt think  Mr and Mrs N wouldve 
taken it out if PTFS had been  clearer  about  things. They also said they thought  this was an 
advised sale. And in light of Mr and Mrs Ns circumstances and the nature of the policy  and 
the loan, they didnt  think the PPI was a suitable recommendation. They  recommended 
PTFS compensate Mr and Mrs N.
Because PTFS disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint  I agree with the adjudicators 
conclusions. I think the adjudicator has explained  things clearly  and I dont feel theres much 
more I can usefully add. But I will set out my reasoning  below.
Mr and Mrs N told us they believed  they received advice about PPI during their meeting. I 
cant see that PTFS said whether it did or not.
Because the sale happened during a meeting in Mr and Mrs Ns home, I can understand 
why Mr and Mrs N think they received advice about PPI  I dont think its an unreasonable 
view to hold. Given what Mr and Mrs N have said about what happened and the lack of 
persuasive evidence  to the contrary,  I think on balance this was an advised sale where 
PTFS recommended PPI. This means it needed  to ensure PPI was right or suitable  for Mr 
and Mrs N in addition  to telling them all they needed to know about the recommended  cover  
so they could make an informed decision  about it.
Ref: DRN27512682Notwithstanding the above, the main  reason  Ive decided to uphold  this complaint is for the 
poor cost disclosure. Proper disclosure  of the cost of PPI  clear,  fair and not misleading  - 
was something PTFS should have  done regardless of whether this was an advised sale or 
not. But I dont  think PTFS  did make the cost clear.
PTFS sold Mr and Mrs N a single premium policy.  As I said above,  the nature  of a single 
premium policy is that the premium is added upfront to the loan where it attracts  interest over 
the full term of the loan. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ns loan agreement from 2004. And here in the box marked 
Optional Protection Insurance an amount of £2,880.00 is written. And while in the box 
beneath this  tilted Loan - the amount of the principal loan Mr and Mrs N were applying for 
has been added to the above PPI amount, this is all the cost information disclosed about 
PPI.
The agreement does  not in my view fairly and reasonably disclose that PPI is being charged 
to an interest bearing loan by clearly and separately  setting out the amount of interest 
charged on the PPI premium over the 25 year term; the resulting total cost of PPI over the 
term; and the monthly cost of the policy. And this was information that Mr and Mrs N ought to 
have been told to allow them to make an informed  decision about  the policy.
While Mr and Mrs N might have understood the monthly benefit of the policy from the PPI 
application form they signed, Im not persuaded it was made  clear  that the term of the policy 
was limited to five years. 
So I dont  think in light of the above Mr and Mrs N could reasonably have understood the 
cost of PPI or been able to weigh  up the cost and benefit proposition and whether it worked 
for them.
This was a significant  failing on the part of PTFS.  And given this extent of the cost disclosure  
failings; the fact that this was in my view an expensive way to provide  protection for this type 
of loan; and in light of Mr and Mrs Ns particular circumstances  at the time,  Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs N would still have taken out the PPI had PTFS  done  what  it should  
fairly and reasonably have done and clearly disclosed the cost to them.
While I think Mr and Mrs N have  suffered loss as a direct result  of the above failing and so 
this is sufficient reason  for me to uphold the complaint, like the adjudicator, I dont think the 
PPI policy  was a suitable  recommendation for them in the circumstances. In summary I say 
this because:
there was a mis-match  between the term of the PPI policy (five years) and the loan 
term (25 years). I think Mr and Mrs N would  likely  have wanted  cover for the duration 
of the loan term, but in this case it would mean theyd have to take out insurance 
again (after the five years) for this to happen resulting in them paying twice for cover.
Mr N ran the risk that if he developed  a medical condition during  the five year term of 
the recommended PPI, he wouldnt  have been  able to retain  cover  on the same 
terms as at the outset   any new policy  he took out would likely limit or perhaps  
exclude claims for existing medical conditions.
the policy terms for early cancellation  were likely limited  i.e. not pro-rata - which 
meant that if Mr and Mrs N wanted to repay  the loan early and within  the five year 
term of the policy, it wouldve been more expensive  for them  to do so. 
Ref: DRN27512683Given the nature of the borrowing and the term of the loan, I think  they wouldve 
wanted flexibility for early  repayment. 
Overall, I dont  think this policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs N and I think  it was wrong for 
PTFS to have recommended it.
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I think Mr and Mrs N have suffered loss as a result  of 
taking out PPI, so PTFS need to do something  to put things right.  
what PTFS needs to do to put things right
Mr and Mrs N borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been. They  paid more than they shouldve each month and it cost them more  to repay the 
loan than it would have. So Mr and Mrs N need  to get back  the extra  theyve paid.
So, PTFS should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs N the difference between what they paid each month  
on the loan and what they wouldve paid without PPI.  
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs N the difference between what it cost to pay off the 
loan and what it would have cost to pay off the loan without  PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs N paid from when they paid it 
until they get it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on.
If Mr and Mrs N made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  PTFS can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires PTFS to take off tax from this interest. PTFS must give 
Mr and Mrs N a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint about Personal 
Touch Financial Services Ltd and I direct it to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs N as Ive set 
out above. I make no other award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2751268