K820x#14complaint
Miss B says HSBC Bank Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2005. 
Miss B paid a monthly amount for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Bs case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss B says the policy  was sold during a meeting in a branch. HSBC is unable  to tell us how 
the policy was sold. I havent seen anything  which makes  me think it wasnt  sold during a 
meeting. So Im satisfied  to say it was. 
When selling  the policy to Miss B, HSBC shouldve made her aware she had a choice about  
buying the policy. Miss B says she wasnt aware  it had been added to her mortgage. 
I dont know what was said about the PPI in any discussions Miss B had with HSBC.   HSBC 
hasnt been able to give a lot of paperwork from the time of sale,  but it has been able to 
provide a copy of the mortgage  offer Miss B wouldve received. On the offer letter,  it states 
the PPI is an optional product.  From what we know, HSBC  normally  made it clear to its 
customers they had a choice about  buying PPI and got their agreement  to it. And Miss B has 
signed to accept the offer, so I think she would have had the opportunity  to query  anything  
she wasnt sure about before doing so. 
So I think its likely HSBC made  Miss B aware she had a choice about buying the PPI and  
at the time - she chose to take it. 
Miss B says the policy  was recommended to her, HSBC cant say whether it was 
recommended or not. But I dont think it matters if the policy  was recommended or not 
because I think  based on her circumstances  the policy was right for Miss B. 
I say this because:
She was eligible for the policy
Miss B says she didnt  have  any employee  benefits or any other means  such  as 
savings  to make  her repayments  if she was too unwell to work  or became 
unemployed. The policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months if shed been too unwell to work or became unemployed.   Miss B was taking 
on a large and long term financial  commitment on her own,  which was secured on 
Ref: DRN29581602her home. So the effects of not keeping up with the repayments couldve been  
serious for her. And I think having the security that her repayments wouldve been  
made if she was unable to work wouldve been important to her. 
From  what shes told us, Miss B wasnt affected  by any of the limits or exclusions  on 
the policy  such  as any existing medical  conditions or unusual  working  patterns. 
I think HSBC couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But I havent 
seen anything to make me think Miss B couldnt afford the monthly payments or 
needed to keep costs down. And she couldve cancelled the policy  at any time, 
without further  cost, if her situation  changed  or she no longer wanted it.
HSBC shouldve given  Miss B clear information  about the policy so she could decide if she 
wanted it or not. Looking at the sample  information  Ive been given, its possible some  things  
werent explained as clearly  as they shouldve been. But I dont  think  clearer  information  
wouldve changed Miss Bs decision. I think shed still have  bought it. I say this for the same 
reasons I think the PPI was right for her. 
So I dont  think Miss B has lost out from anything HSBC mightve done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2958160