K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Bank  of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund 
any of the commission  it received  from their PPI premiums for the policy that they took out in 
2003 to cover their mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Ms complaint about commission. Thats 
because theyve previously complained  about the mis-sale of the PPI, and this was dealt 
with in 2013.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31 October 2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began  and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. It was also possible for mortgages  taken  out 
before this date to become regulated, if a change was made to the mortgage   such as a 
further advance  or interest rate switch. Different  lenders took different  approaches to this.
Mr and Mrs Ms first mortgage was taken out in 2003. And from the information Halifax has 
provided, it looks like they took out a further advance  on this mortgage  in 2005. Halifax has 
told us the entire mortgage became regulated  at that point.
Based on what weve  seen and what we know about how Halifax  arranged  this further 
borrowing, Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs Ms first mortgage did become regulated. And so, as 
it became regulated before 6 April 2008,  it was no longer  under  the scope of the Consumer 
Credit Act or the FCAs relevant rules and guidance.
Mr and Mrs Ms second mortgage was taken  out in 2006. And from the information Halifax 
has provided, it was a regulated mortgage  when  it was taken  out. So it wasnt  under the 
scope of the Consumer Credit  Act and the FCAs relevant rules and guidance dont apply to 
it.
Ref: DRN29556202As the FCAs relevant rules and guidance therefore  dont apply to either mortgage, Halifax 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they had with 
these mortgages.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2955620