K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about the advice that he received in 2014/15 from Integral Financial 
Advice Limited (Integral)  to transfer the value  of his public sector occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) arrangements  to a personal  pension plan (PPP)  as a precursor to moving 
the funds into a Qualifying Recognised  Overseas  Pension  Scheme (QROPS).
Mr R is unhappy that Integral didnt  tell him that transfers to his particular QROPS were
under review and says that, had he known, he would  have left the benefits  within the public 
sector OPS in the United Kingdom.
Mr R is unhappy that the funds were  put into a cash fund within  the PPP and he feels  he was 
poorly advised.
background
On 19 December 2014 Mr R contacted  the business  because  he was planning  on moving 
to Australia. He wanted to know what he should  do with his accrued pension provision in a 
public sector OPS  that was worth  £36,469.
At this time it had been announced that after 6 April 2015 transfers out of any unfunded  
public sector OPS  were  no longer  going to be allowed. 
The Draft Overseas Pensions  Scheme (Miscellaneous) Regulation 2015 had been published 
(on 17 December 2014). This set out that from April 2015 (subject to responses within a 4 
week consultation), the definition  of a scheme  that could be a QROPS would change.
The draft regulations set out that any pension scheme permitting the payment of benefits 
earlier than would be allowed after April 2015 under UK legislation (age 55) would  no longer 
be deemed to be a qualifying scheme and such payments  would be subject to UK taxation.
This had raised  concerns  within the industry that the number of QROPS would  reduce after
April 2015. The finalised rules were  laid before  by Parliament on 13 March 2015.
 On 7 March 2015 Mr R completed a questionnaire which  established that:
 He was aged 35.
 He was moving abroad, with an intended  move date in June 2015.
 He had a permanent job lined up
 He had been employed for eight years and was planning  to finish  
employment in May 2015.
He did not intend to return to the UK and.
 He was a cautious  investor. 
The business wrote  to Mr R on 16 March 2015  stating that it would not ordinarily 
recommend he transfer to a UK based  PPP as the required rate of return  to provide benefits 
at retirement of equivalent value to those in the OPS was determined  to be 7.93%.  This was 
felt to be too high.  At that time the business was aware that the regulator  required pension 
providers to show projected benefits  on standard  assumed growth rates of 5%, 7% and 9%. 
So a required growth rate of 7.93% just to match the benefits being given up would have  
been considered to be at the upper end of what was felt to be a realistic return. Therefore, it 
would have been considered that, the advice to Mr R, if he was staying in the UK, would be 
Ref: DRN29893022not to transfer.
However, as Mr R wanted to transfer to a QROPS  in Australia  the advice was to transfer 
due to the different tax treatment of the arrangements.
As a temporary measure  and because Mr R wouldnt be able to transfer the value of his 
public sector pension benefits after April 2015,  the business recommended he transfer into a 
PPP which could then be transferred into a QROPS  later. The business referred Mr R to an 
Australian adviser who could help him with the final part of the transaction.
The business recorded that: 
We may not be able to transfer your pension to Australia if the proposed  ban on 
transfers from Unfunded Public Sector Pensions is introduced in April 2015. 
Mr R stated that if the transfer  date was missed he would review the options again.
I like the adjudicator cant find any reference  to the problems surrounding transfers to 
QROPS from PPP arrangements. The business  has argued that there  were  a number of 
QROPS available in Australia  at the time.  
It said that
 given  the fact that you will become a resident for tax purposes in June 2015 you 
will have had until December 2015  to transfer  your UK pension benefits  to Australia 
without incurring a tax liability.  This assumes you are holding a visa and your 
Australian Tax File Number was obtained at this time.
The value of Mr Rs pension benefits (£36,469.43)  was subsequently transferred into a PPP 
where £34,828.31 was invested in cash. The difference, of £1,641.12, was taken as a fee 
which would:
 cover all the necessary  steps to recommend  and establish an Australian 
Superannuation Fund and to ensure the overseas transfers take place as 
recommended.
The recommendation report included the following  statement:
In "Freedom and choice  in pensions - government response to the consultation" 
published by the Treasury  in July 2014  the following comment  was made: -
2.8 The government  recognises that the changes to the pensions  tax rules  outlined 
in this chapter  will have implications for the rules relating to Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Schemes (QROPS). The government will consider these 
implications further to ensure that the rules relating to QROPS are appropriate  
when the new system  comes into force.
No further announcement had been made by the government.
The adjudicator considered that given the circumstances of this case that the advice 
to Mr R should have  been do not transfer.   The business disagreed with the 
adjudicator.  It stated that it could see no evidence that Mr R had stated that he would 
Ref: DRN29893023leave his OPS  benefits  in the UK. It was also aware that in exceptional circumstances 
the deadline for transferring to Australia could be extended. It had tried to ask HMRC 
what would  qualify as exceptional circumstances.  However it had been told that 
there had been  no decision  taken yet as to what would qualify for the extension in 
time limits.
The business argued that it is only an assumption that Mr R would have left his 
benefits in the UK OPS. It noted that he had opted  out of the OPS  prior to its 
involvement. It does not consider that Mr R would  have wanted to leave his benefits 
in the UK OPS  when he emigrated  to Australia. 
The business has stated  that had it been aware of the non-compliance issue of the 
QROPS it would not have recommended that Mr R transfer to the PPP as a stepping 
stone to the QROPS.  It argued that it was not fair to hold it liable for any losses  when 
the advice it had given was given  in good  faith. The HMRC rule changes could not 
have been anticipated. 
It asked for the complaint  to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and I am minded to reach the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator.
In my opinion, there were a number of special and complex issues that needed to be 
considered by Integral when advising Mr R. These  included the issue  of whether Mr R was 
moving overseas  permanently; whether  there was a chance that he might  return  to the 
United Kingdom  after a number of years; what his attitude to risk was; and whether  the 
transfer value  offered  good value for money.  Integral  also had to take in to consideration the 
fact that there were issues at the time with finding  a QROPS arrangement that would be 
acceptable after the rules had changed. 
The business was advising  on transfers  to QROPS  and should have been  aware  that  
The Draft Overseas Pensions  Scheme (Miscellaneous) Regulation 2015 had been published 
(on 17 December 2014). Mr R should  have been able to rely on the business being aware of 
the proposed  changes  to the rules  on QROPS when the advice it was giving was being 
provided after the date that the proposed new rules had been published.    
There were clearly significant time pressures as the transfer out of the OPS  (if it was to go 
ahead) had to be completed before  6 April 2015 and the transfer  to a new QROPS had to 
take place within six months of Mr R moving  overseas and taking  up residency for him to 
avoid any tax charge.
 
Integral asked Mr R whether it was his intention to return to the UK after a spell of living  
overseas and Mr R categorically stated  that the move  would be permanent and that he 
wished to sever all ties with the UK.
As Mr Rs move  was planned  to be permanent,  elimination of the currency mismatch 
between where  Mr R lived and the OPS benefits  (which were set up in pounds)  would have  
been considered beneficial.  It should  however be noted that fixing the transfer value at 
Ref: DRN29893024todays exchange  rates would not be beneficial if the pound strengthened in the future. But if 
the pound  was to weaken in the future then the position is reversed,
Integral should  have  been aware that transfers  to QROPS arrangements  were suspended 
when it advised  Mr R to transfer initially to a PPP as a temporary solution that could be 
arranged before  6  April 2015.  After  this, it might be possible to transfer to a QROPS, if and 
when the rules had been  changed to allow it. This subsequent transfer could take place after 
the review by the UK government  into QROPS  had been completed.  What  was not clear at 
the time of advice  was whether the review  would continue to allow transfers to QROPS to be 
permitted. 
Given Mr R was recorded as having  a cautious attitude to risk, the high level of uncertainty 
that there  was surrounding the future availability of QROPS and the high critical yield (almost 
8%) that had to be achieved  to match the OPS benefits that were  being given up I consider 
that the advice  from Integral should  have been not to transfer. Integral should have 
recommended that Mr R leave his deferred  pension benefits where they were.
In my opinion this advice  would  have  been followed by Mr R as he was not a pension  expert  
and did not want  to take risks with his pension  provision. Indeed  I note that Mr R has stated 
that if it was not possible  to transfer to a QROPS he would have left his deferred benefits  
where they were. 
I note that the charge that was being levied  by the business (of 3.5%) was reduced from its 
standard rate. However in my opinion Mr R who had a low attitude to risk should  have  been  
advised not to transfer as the amount  on offer was not that generous.
If Mr R had been advised to leave his OPS benefits  in the UK I consider that he would have 
followed that advice.  I say this because most individuals who are paying  for professional  
pension advice would have followed the advice they received. Mr R has also stated that this 
is what he would have  done as part of his complaint.
Whilst I appreciate that it would be difficult for the business to discuss the PPP with Mr R, 
who now lives in Australia, I do think that it would have been possible to have email 
correspondence. This could have fixed a convenient time to have a phone call to discuss      
Mr Rs pension provisions.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Integral Financial Advice Limited.
Integral Financial Advice Limited must undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review  guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision. 
Integral Financial Advice Limited may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Rs contribution history  to the State  Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
Ref: DRN29893025calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on  
Mr Rs SERPS/S2P entitlement.  
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr R 
within 90 days of the date Integral Financial Advice Limited receives notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  Further  interest must be added to the compensation amount 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Integral Financial Advice  Limited to pay Mr R 
this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2989302