K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) closed his packaged bank account, sent his 
overdraft to a third-party for collection and notified  external credit agencies  without  his 
agreement.
background
In August  2018  Mr A held a Lloyds  Premier  Account (PA) which  incurred a monthly  fee.
Mr A says that he discussed  his account  with Lloyds In August 2018 and arranged  to keep it 
within his overdraft limit. He later found  Lloyds had closed the PA in January 2019, put his 
account in default, sent his outstanding debt to a third party for collection and notified 
external credit agencies.  Mr A says Lloyds should not have done this.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr As complaint, but Mr A disagrees, so it comes to me to 
decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr As complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only about the circumstances that led to Mr As account  being 
closed in January  2019. It does not cover Mr As complaint  about  his overdraft limit being 
increased several years previously, which was is not within this services jurisdiction.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds and Mr A discussed his account  on the phone in August 2018 and Ive listened to the 
relevant call recordings supplied by Lloyds. One of these recordings ends abruptly and 
appears incomplete. Lloyds has not been able to find a full version of the recording, but Ill 
explain below why that doesnt  affect the outcome of my decision.
In the calls both parties  acknowledge that Mr A has reached his overdraft limit and Mr A 
expresses a wish to enter in to a repayment plan. Lloyds carries out an assessment of his 
financial circumstances, and Mr A explains he has taken  up a new job and provides 
information about his income  and out goings.
In this conversation  Mr A seems to me to be arranging his account so that the balance will 
remain below his credit  limit so that Lloyds need not take any further action. I say this 
because he clearly asks for his PA to be downgraded to a fee free account and Lloyds 
agrees to do this. Mr A asks for standing orders to be removed from the account so there  are 
no outgoings. 
He also arranges  to pay in £20 which takes  the account below  the credit  limit. Its then not 
clear how the conversation concludes because the recording finishes abruptly. But Lloyds 
has accepted  that it possibly  should have downgraded his account  to a fee free account and 
has refunded all the fees he paid from August 2018  to January 2019. It has also sent him a 
cheque for £50 as a gesture of goodwill. On the assumption that Mr A did make a request to 
Ref: DRN25111152downgrade his account in August 2018  and Lloyds failed to do it, I think  this is appropriate 
redress for him.
I then considered whether Lloyds failure to stop the account fees caused Mr As account to 
go into default and whether it was reasonable of Lloyds to close the account,  pass it to a 
third-party debt collector and notify external credit agencies.
I think it was and Ill explain why.
Mr A says Lloyds acted on the account  because it continued to take his fees and pushed his 
account over its overdraft limit. I agree that this happened and that it was probably the 
trigger for Lloyds action.
However, Lloyds says that if no fees had been taken, but no payments were  being made to 
reduce the debt on his account after August 2018,  this would also have triggered  their 
action. And I can understand this and would  expect it to be part of their account 
management as Mr A had a substantial debt on the account. Mr A didnt make any payments 
after August  2018.  And when Lloyds tried to contact Mr A several  times  he did not respond.
Mr A says he had lost his job, could  no longer  afford a phone  and left the country  for a 
period. However,  he did not notify  Lloyds  of any change of circumstances or address, and 
Lloyds communication  went to the address they had on record for him. And I think  its 
reasonable for Lloyds to have expected a response  of some kind.  When  Lloyds didnt get a 
response for several  months, I dont  think it was unfair or unreasonable for it to put the 
account into default, pass it to a third-party debt collector and notify external credit  agencies.
So, I dont think Lloyds  needs to take any other  action. 
my decision
My decision  is that dont uphold Mr As complaint  against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2511115