K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
Mr B has said it wasnt  made clear to him that the PPI was optional.  Ive seen a copy 
of Mr Bs credit  card and PPI application. The form has all of Mr Bs details and I 
think its likely it was completed  at the meeting. So I think  its a reasonable reflection 
of what Mr B discussed with BoS at the time of sale. On the form Mr B indicated  that 
he wanted to buy Credit Card Repayment  Cover (the PPI).  He didnt have to do this if 
he didnt want the PPI. So I think BoS made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. He 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  And Mr B says 
he wouldve got some  sick pay from his employer. But the PPI policy wouldve paid 
out in addition to any sick pay he might have  got. So given what Mr B has told us 
about his sick pay entitlement  I think he still could have  found  the policy useful.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr Bs said including that he wouldve been  able to rely on 
his friends and family. I appreciate  that his friends  and family  wouldve wanted to help. But 
their circumstances could  also have changed  and they may not have been able to when 
needed. So this doesnt change my conclusions above.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr B paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr B back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN28256512my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2825651