K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Ms S mortgage with The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc (RBS). Ms S 
is unhappy with the information RBS records on her credit file about the account. She says it 
gives the impression  shes  in arrears of around £12,000 when, in reality, its much  less than 
that and shes  maintaining  payments in full and on time.
background
The mortgage Ms S has is the former Virgin-branded One Account. It has a maximum 
lending facility of £310,000, and during  a period of unemployment in 2017,  Ms S was unable 
to keep the balance below  that level. After about three months. Ms S returned to work and 
agreed with RBS a schedule  of payments to bring  the balance back  below the £310,000 limit 
over time.
Ms S has kept to the schedule  of payments, but isnt happy  with the way RBS has recorded 
the balance excess  on her credit file. She says it gives the impression  (wrongly)  that shes 
missed six months worth  of monthly  payments. RBS says thats not what it is reporting. 
Rather, it says it reports that shes been over her credit limit for more than six consecutive  
months.
Our investigator didnt  think RBS had done  anything  wrong. Ms S wants  her complaint 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Im aware of having  summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented. No 
discourtesys intended  by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
havent mentioned  something,  it isnt because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt  think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  
Were impartial, we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a complaint, 
and we dont regulate or punish financial businesses.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its apparent to me that 
this complaint is rather simpler than its been  made to look. The conventional  sense  in which  
mortgage arrears are defined (and reported) is the extent to which a borrower is keeping to a 
pre-determined contractual  monthly payment. But the type of mortgage  Ms S has doesnt 
have a pre-determined contractual monthly payment; rather, it has a pre-determined credit 
limit, a bit like an overdraft facility on a current account.
That being  so, any credit file reporting  on a mortgage of this type cant be a reflection of 
whether a person is or isnt up to date with their monthly payment. Its a reflection of whether 
the amount a person  owes is more  than the agreed limit. RBS reports the number of 
consecutive months that a One Account has been over its agreed limit, up and a maximum 
of six. 
Ref: DRN20657202It really is that simple, and once  understood and applied to Ms S mortgage, it can be seen 
that RBS hasnt done anything wrong.  I appreciate Ms S is concerned other  creditors  looking 
at her credit file will think shes missed six months  payments.  But thats not what RBS is 
reporting, and RBS isnt responsible for the interpretations other potential creditors place on 
the information they see when they conduct a search.
Theres one last thing.  I understand  Miss S recently  made a payment that brought her 
account under the limit, but then the balance went back  above the limit when  RBS added the 
monthly interest, and thats whats been reported for that month. Thats  not a mistake; the 
information reported has to reflect the full monthly billing cycle.  But I can appreciate  Ms S 
sense of disappointment if she was wrongly advised the next entry  on her file would be a 
positive one, and her frustration and annoyance that shes not quite there  yet.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2065720