K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a Silver Added Value Account (SAVA)  by TSB Bank 
Plc (TSB  Bank). 
background
Mr M arrived in the country seeking work in 2008. He took out the SAVA in December  2008  
which incurred a monthly fee. Mr M says that the SAVA was not suitable  for him and was 
mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Ms complaint and decided that the SAVA wasnt  mis-sold. Mr 
M disagrees so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint.
Its difficult for me to be clear what Mr Ms complaint is because  he has put forward  a 
number of different  arguments either  directly  or through  his representative.  Initially  Mr Ms 
complaint was that hed had no choice in taking  out the SAVA and although hed noticed  the 
charges he was unsure what they were  for. He then said that hed only known about the 
phone insurance  and that was all he wanted  and he should have been sold a Select 
Account rather than a SAVA. I can see that Mr M is making his complaint in what  is not his 
first language and I also understand  that in his country of origin bank  accounts  generally 
have a fee. So to be fair to Mr M Ive decided  to look at all aspects  of the sale of the SAVA.
Having done so, in my view, I dont agree that the SAVA was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Mr M was given a choice whether to take out the SAVA or 
not, and whether he chose to take it out.
Although Mr M was used  to paying for a bank account in his country of origin, I think he was 
exploring all options  for his banking, including fee free accounts.  I say this because  he says 
that he went to TSB Bank because they offered an account which  was the only one where 
not a lot of documentation needed  to be submitted by someone from his country.  This 
suggests to me that he had looked into bank account options in some  detail. And as free 
bank accounts  were widely available from all banks and other financial institutions in the UK, 
I think its more likely than not that he was aware that he couldve had a free account but 
instead chose  a packaged bank  account.
TSB Bank has provided  a copy of his signed  application form for the SAVA which  although 
only partially filled in, shows  in my view that its more likely than not that he agreed to open 
the SAVA.
Mr M says in his later submissions that he should  have been offered a Select account, but 
TSB Bank had withdrawn Select  accounts  from the market well before this sale took place.
So I think Mr M was aware he had a choice  whether  to take out the SAVA or not and he 
chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN20057622Mr M says that TSB Bank recommended the account to him and advised  him to take it out. 
TSB Bank says it didnt. It says that it only provided information to Mr M for him to make his 
own decision. I will assume  that TSB Bank  did advise Mr M and recommend he take out the 
SAVA as this is to Mr Ms advantage and doesnt  affect the outcome of my decision.
So, TSB Bank needed to provide Mr M with sufficient information  about the SAVA  to make 
an informed choice. And in recommending the SAVA, it also needed to take adequate steps 
to ensure that the SAVA was a reasonable fit for Mr Ms circumstances.
The SAVA contained a range of benefits including European travel  insurance cover for him 
and his spouse or partner, AA breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and sentinel  card 
protection. I dont know what  TSB Bank said or what information  it gave Mr M but I think  Mr 
M wouldve  found  the SAVA useful for the following reasons. 
Mr M says he was travelling in Europe between one and three times a year at the time of 
sale. And TSB Bank  has provided Mr Ms statements  from the account opening which shows 
that he bought a lot of airline  tickets for European travel in the first three years of having the 
account. Mr M has said that some of these were for other people  but he has not disputed  
that some  of them were  for him. And he has acknowledged that he didnt have EHIC 
(European Health Insurance Card) cover for at least a year after the sale. 
Mr M said at one point in his evidence that he bought the SAVA because he wanted the 
mobile phone insurance  although he later said he didnt know  what the SAVA  benefits  were. 
Lloyds TSB has provided evidence that he did register  for mobile  phone  insurance on two 
occasions.
And the AA breakdown service  covered  Mr M whether he was the owner or driver or simply 
a passenger in the car when the breakdown occurred. 
There was nothing about Mr Ms personal circumstances that wouldve stopped him from 
using the benefits of the SAVA.  When Mr M took out the SAVA it was on a much reduced 
introductory fee of £3 a month which increased  to only £7.95 a month after 3 months. He 
could have chosen at any time later to close it but he didnt  and he still has it.
So in my view TSB Banks advice  to him to take out the SAVA was not unsuitable  and there 
was no information  that he didnt receive that would likely have put him off taking it out.
So I dont  think TSB Bank mis-sold the SAVA  to Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before date.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2005762