K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1995.
The policy cost was likely to be no more than £1.00 per £100 Mrs S owed on her store card. It 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as 12 months purchase  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment 
to Mrs S and Ill explain my reasons for reaching  this outcome.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs S that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs S says the PPI was added to her account without 
giving her the option to choose.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  for PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if the cover is required. 
On Mrs Ss form a tick has been placed in the box and Mrs S has signed the application form 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. If Mrs S didnt want to take 
out the PPI she could have left the PPI box blank.
Mrs S has said she didnt  know  that she was charged for the insurance. But the premiums 
for the policy would  have  shown as separate entries  on her monthly statements. If Mrs S 
didnt know what this charge was for or hadnt  agreed to take PPI out, I think  she would 
have questioned this sooner than she did.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs S 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs S  Mrs S hasnt been able to recall  if 
she received advice or not. From  looking  at the paperwork supplied  I dont think FICL 
recommended the policy  to her which means it didnt have to check if the policy was right for 
Ref: DRN20885292her. But it did need  to make sure it gave Mrs S clear enough information about the policy  for 
her to decide if she should  take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  she 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations or 
exclusions to the cover.
And it appears that the policy could have  provided a useful benefit to her. While  Ive noted 
Mrs S was entitled to sick pay, any payment made  by this policy  would have been in addition 
to her sick pay. And it would have continued  to pay out until Mrs S returned to work or until 
the outstanding balance  had been  repaid  whichever came first. And it would  also have 
provided cover for the same term if she was to lose her job. Mrs S has said she had some 
savings but by having this policy it would have allowed her to protect  her savings or use 
them to cover other essential living  expenses if she wasnt earning. 
Mrs S has said her husband would have  been able to help. Ive considered  this point but the 
circumstances of others can also change which means that their financial support cant be 
relied upon. So Im afraid this doesnt  alter my decision.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs S has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2088529