K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the repairs carried  out on his car by Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited and the way its communicated with him about his motor  insurance claim.
background
Mr B made a claim on his Advantage  motor insurance policy after his car was vandalised. 
Hes unhappy that not all the damage  to his car has been repaired. And that although the 
repairs were authorised he wasnt contacted by the independent assessor to explain that 
some of the cars damage wouldnt be covered in the claim. He wants his courtesy car 
charges reimbursed, the rest of the damage  repaired  and the return  of his excess.
Advantage said in its final response that an independent engineer  had inspected Mr Bs 
vehicle and confirmed  that not all the damage  to it was the result of vandalism.  Some  
damage was consistent with a previous impact and this hadnt  therefore been repaired. The 
repairer had also charged  for the courtesy car as Mr B didnt return it on time. Advantage 
had however given Mr B some incorrect information but it has already paid him £75 
compensation for that.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
The engineers  report highlights pre-existing damage to Mr Bs car. Its fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to have only authorised  the repair of damage caused  by 
vandalism to the car and not this pre-existing damage.  If itd authorised the repair of 
pre-existing damage that would put Mr B in better  position and thats  not what  his 
policy covers. Its also given Mr B a fair opportunity  to get his own evidence  that the 
damage wasnt pre-existing. 
Mr B wasnt told Advantage would  repair scratches to his glass. But he was given 
incorrect information about the free storage period and its paid him £75 
compensation for this which is reasonable.
The policy says a courtesy car is only provided  while the car is being repaired. The 
charges applied by the garage relate to the period after the repairs to Mr Bs car had 
been completed. And theres no evidence Advantage said it would  or was obliged to 
pay them  or that it was free. 
Advantage hasnt  breached the policy terms or acted unfairly.  And she cant  ask it to 
do anything more.
Mr B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Ref: DRN27962782I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
Mr Bs car was damaged by vandals  and the engineers report obtained by Advantage  
clearly documents  his car was in below average condition  and had some  pre-existing 
damage. I think it was reasonable  for Advantage to rely upon the expert view of the 
independent engineer and Mr B hasnt supplied any comparable evidence  to contradict what  
Advantages engineer said.
Advantage isnt obliged  by the terms of the policy to pay for the repair of any pre-existing 
damage or betterment  of a policyholders car. So, it was reasonable for it to only cover the 
repair of the damage  the engineer said was caused  by the vandalism.  Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that this wasnt  anything  other than fair and in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions.
The policy also said a courtesy car would be provided while Mr Bs car was being repaired. 
And Advantage didnt agree to provide one free or for longer. So I cannot  see that 
Advantage should be required to pay for any additional courtesy car charges applied  by the 
garage when Mr B retained it for longer than the repairs took to complete.
I also think Advantages payment of £75 compensation for giving Mr B some incorrect 
information is fair.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs frustration and strength of feeling,  I think Advantage has 
acted fairly  and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And I dont think  I can 
reasonably require Advantage to pay or do anything more as Mr B would like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2796278