K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Oxygen Ventures  Limited failed to pursue  the investment strategy it set 
out in the proposal document for a film production-linked scheme thereby exposing his 
money to excessive risk.
background
Mr B said he invested in good  faith based  on comprehensive marketing materials and 
numerous questions  and answers,  particularly  in relation to the basis on which  it would be 
running the investment mandate.
It was extremely important  for him that the investment did not have substantial exposure to 
the performance of a film but had the underpinning of presale contracts and tax credits as 
part of the security.  This was clarified  on numerous  occasions, particularly  the issue  of a 
70/30 split on investment  between secure,  collateralised elements and equity.
He felt that Oxygen  was clearly aware of the marketing and was now trying to absolve  itself 
from blame, distancing itself from a targeted campaign promising  a clear investment 
structure and strategy. The proposed strategy, of 70% collateralisation, has not been 
followed leading to substantially  different  risk exposure and far greater risks to capital.
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.  
She pointed  that Mr B could not make  a complaint about MPC, the film company scheme, as 
it was not regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority, meaning we had no power to look 
into such a complaint.
She noted that Mr B was a senior financial advisor  and had invested  in this company  before 
and in a similarly risky proposition and therefore should have understood the documentation 
and the risk posed by the scheme. 
She also noted that Oxygens responsibility  was to decide which investments the fund 
should make  and to manage these. In reaching  such decisions it would consider the 
recommendations of a film company consultant and employ suitable due diligence  and 
consider potential conflicts of interest. It would also review the regular  reporting  provided by 
the companies in order to monitor the performance  of the investments and the productions 
made.
She said that MPCs role was to arrange,  raise  and structure finance  solutions for production 
and distribution  partners in the entertainment industry i.e. decide what  films to invest  it. She 
also pointed to numerous statements within the documentation which gave extensive 
warnings about  the risks of the proposed investment.
She did not accept  that this documentation  guaranteed that 70% of the invested money 
would necessarily be devoted to more  secure  assets or that such assets  were  risk-free. 
Overall, she did not accept that the documentation was misleading or that Oxygen was 
somehow culpable in diverting from an agreed  limited risk strategy.
Mr B did not agree,  and said:
Ref: DRN27567722The Ombudsman needs to make a ruling on the investigators view that Oxygen 
cannot be held liable  for any correspondence  between its chosen investment/ 
mandate managers (MPC) and clients/investors
While  it used MPC as the distribution  arm it was the regulated financial entity and its 
representatives were  present to field questions; it needs to be responsible  for the 
information given
He wants all the correspondence provided  by MPC reopened and considered,  
including additional emails which he has acquired
He also elaborated on the issues he had outlined initially and raised in correspondence with 
the investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is crucial to explain that my role is to determine whether Oxygen acted inappropriately (did 
something wrong) in its limited role as the promoter  and fund manager  of this scheme. I 
have therefore  not considered whether any of MPCs  actions were  misleading, including its 
key presentation,  emails  or other correspondence with Mr B.
Given this I think much of the correspondence Mr B refers to is not relevant as it is not 
initiated or approved by Oxygen. I dont  accept it was responsible for MPCs 
communications.
Oxygen as the promoter had a regulated responsibility to seek  to ensure the accuracy of the 
promotional literature at the time it was produced. Literature which, its important to say, 
pointed to the wide variety  of risks posed by this investment and the fact that some  of these 
risks were  not easily estimable. Overall, I am satisfied that this literature did spell out the 
significant risks posed by investing in this, as in many other,  film company-based EIS 
schemes.
In my view this literature did not offer any guarantees although I accept it held out the 
prospect of 70% of the invested capital being  fairly  safe set against the unquantifiable risk of 
an individual film being a flop. But Mr B, as a very experienced  and expert investment 
advisor, ought to have  understood he was not being given a guarantee that 70% of his 
capital was safe. In fact he raises this issue in correspondence with MPC and its 
representative repeats  that there  are risks to this 70% of investors capital, explaining - for 
example - that tax credits  (considered part of the 70%) are not guaranteed.
I have considered Mr Bs additional points about this 70/30 issue including  his specific 
concerns about  more  than half of investors money ending up in the so-called 30% higher  
risk aspects of the business. But I do not believe this evidence  is sufficient to safely  say that 
Oxygen clearly did something wrong  given its limited role and the numerous caveats in the 
full prospectus.
Finally, given my role is limited  to considering whether Oxygen did something wrong, I would 
lie to add that even if MPC did diverge in spirit or in practice from what  was set out in the 
promotional material, I do not believe Oxygen can be held responsible for this. Unless it 
knowingly promoted this investment on the basis that MPC did not intend to keep to any 
Ref: DRN27567723alleged guarantees or clear assurances given in the documentation I dont believe it can be 
held liable  for any potential subsequent breaches  (if any did occur).
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2756772