K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains  that Lloyds  Bank  PLC increased  his minimum  payments  on his credit  
card and that his letters  of complaint  went  unanswered.
background
In January  2019  Mr J received  a letter  from Lloyds  to explain  his minimum  
repayments  would  be increased  from 1 to 2% towards  the end of February  2019.  The 
letter  gave  him the option  of closing  his account  if he wasn't  happy  with this.
Mr J complained  to Lloyds  to explain  the increased  payments  weren't  affordable  for 
him. He also complains  that some  of his letters  to Lloyds  went  unanswered.
Mr J thinks  Lloyds  treated  him unfairly.  He thinks  Lloyds  didn't  act in accordance  with 
the Financial  Conduct  Authority's  (FCA's)  rules  on persistent  debit  and he says  he 
was only given  the option  to make  increased  minimum  repayments  or to close  his 
account  - which  he says  he isn't able to do because  he needs  to use his credit  card.
Lloyds  didn't  uphold  his complaint  about  the increase  to his minimum  payments.  It said 
that following  guidance  from the FCA it wanted  to assist  its customers  to reduce  their 
debt.  It said Mr J was given  the option  to close  his account  if he didn't  want  the increase  
to take effect.
Lloyds  agreed  it had delayed  responding  to Mr J's concerns  and it paid £75 to his 
account  by way of apology.
Unhappy  with Lloyds'  response,  Mr J referred  his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator  didn't  recommend  that Mr J's complaint  should  be upheld  because  the 
terms  and conditions  of his account  allow  Lloyds  to increase  the minimum  payments  if 
we consider  that you are in persistent  debt,  or at risk of falling  into persistent  debt.
Mr J disagrees  with the investigator's  view.  He thinks  the investigator  placed  emphasis  
on the terms  and conditions  which  he's never  had; he doesn't  think  the investigator  read 
the FCA's  guidance  about  persistent  debt and he doesn't  think  £75 compensation  is fair. 
Since  the investigator's  view Mr J told us that Lloyds  has now reversed  its decision  to 
increase  his minimum  repayments  which  he thinks  shows  that Lloyds  is at fault.
I issued  a provisional  decision  and in that decision  I said:
I've considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments  to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Having  reviewed  the information  provided  by Mr J I think  the crux of his complaint  is that 
Lloyds  didn't  act in accordance  with the FCA's  guidance  on persistent  debt when  it 
increased  his minimum  repayments.
As an ombudsman  my role is to act impartially  to resolve  individual  complaints  
between  a consumer  and a business.  Should  we decide  that something  has gone  
wrong  we would  ask the business  to put things  right by placing  the consumer,  as far 
as is possible,  in the position  they would  have  been  if the problem  hadn't  occurred.  
Ref: DRN29537812But the role of our service  isn't to regulate  or punish  businesses  for their conduct  - 
that is the role of the FCA.
Lloyds  wrote  to Mr J in September  2018  to explain  that he was in persistent  debt.  The 
letter  said "if you continue  to pay more  in interest.  fees and charges  than off your 
balance  over the next 18 months  we may stop you using  your card..".  It also said "We 
might  also need  you to increase  your minimum  payments."
I've looked  at Mr J's credit  card statements  and I can see that his repayments  were  
generally  around  the same  amount  as his monthly  minimum  payment  - and this 
meant  he was paying  very little off his outstanding  balance.  Considering  Mr J's usage  
of his card and pattern  of repayment  I don't  think  Lloyds  made  a mistake  in writing  to 
him to tell him that increasing  his monthly  payments  would  mean  he would  be able to 
pay off his credit  card balance  more  quickly  and pay less interest  overall.  And neither  
do I think  it made  a mistake  by saying  it would  monitor  his account  over the next 18 
months.  I think  this was in line with the rules  on persistent  debt.
However  four months  later  in January  2019   it wrote  again  to say his minimum  
payments  were  being  increased  from 1 to 2% of his outstanding  balance  plus interest  
and charges.
The September  2018  letter  indicated  that Lloyds  would  decide  whether  to increase  the 
minimum  repayments  after monitoring  his account  for a further  18 months.  Whilst  I 
accept  that Lloyds  was trying  to help him reduce  his credit  card balance,  I think  it took 
the decision  to increase  his monthly  payments  sooner  than it said it would  and I think  
Lloyds  made  a mistake  here.
Mr J told Lloyds  that increasing  his minimum  payments  would  cause  him financial  
difficulties.  I must  explain  that I'm not making  any finding  about  whether  this actually  
caused  him financial  difficulties.  In these  circumstances  I'd expect  Lloyds  to treat him 
positively  and sympathetically.  I think  Lloyds  did that here because  in the final 
response  letter  it gave  Mr J until early  April 2019  to review  his options  and it said it 
would  remove  the higher  payment  expectation  from his statement.  It also offered  for 
Mr J and his partner  to speak  to a financial  adviser.
In terms  of putting  matters  right for Mr J, Lloyds  has provided  to our service  a copy  
of its offer to settle  his complaint  dated  August  2019.  In that letter  Lloyds  agreed  to 
reverse  its decision  to increase  his minimum  payments,  it also agreed  to remove  
any late payment  indicators  reported  to credit  reference  agencies  and to restore  
his credit  limit to its previous  level.  It also credited  Mr J's and his partner's  joint 
account  with a payment  of £1,065.
I think  the non-financial  actions  Lloyds  has agreed  to undertake  in its August  2019  
letter  are fair but I think  the compensation  offered  by Lloyd  is more  generous  than I 
would  have  awarded  had the complaint  come  to me without  an award  having  already  
been  made.  My understanding  is that Lloyds  has already  paid this compensation  to 
Mr J and his partner  so I do not require  it to pay any further  compensation  or to do 
any more  than it has already  agreed  to do in its August  2019  letter  to settle  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN29537813developments  since  my provisional  decision
I invited  both parties  to let me have  any further  submissions  before  I reached  a final 
decision.  Lloyds  acknowledged  receipt  of my provisional  decision  and didnt  have  any 
objections  to it. Mr J disagrees  with my provisional  decision.  In summary:-
Mr J says  my provisional  decision  doesnt  explain  that Mr J never  received  
Lloyds  September  2018  letter  or that Mr J has always  paid his credit  card bills 
on time;
Mr J says  the refund  of £1065  wasnt  offered  by Lloyds  or accepted  as 
compensation  but they were  instead  told this was a refund  of additional  
amounts  paid by Mr and Mrs J as a result  of Lloyds  enforced  increase  of their 
minimum  repayments  from 1% to 2%;
Mr J doesnt  think  my decision  recognised  that Lloyds  actions  went  against  
FCA rulings  and he feels  my decision  was biased  in favour  of Lloyds .
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J doesnt think my decision  reflects  the many letters  and phone  calls he and his partner 
had with Lloyds  or that he managed his account well.  As an informal  dispute resolution  
service, we must reach  a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In 
doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every point made  or to detail all the 
information provided by both parties.  Instead  I am required to concentrate on what I think are 
the key issues. 
I appreciate Mr J feels very strongly  that Lloyds  didnt act in accordance  with the FCA rules 
on persistent debt. I explained in my provisional  decision why I thought Lloyds didnt treat Mr 
J fairly so Ive gone into some further detail  here to explain my reasoning.
At the time Lloyds increased Mr Js minimum credit  card repayments,  the applicable terms 
and conditions of his credit card account allowed it to do so if it thought he was in persistent 
debt or at risk of falling into persistent debt. Although the terms and conditions  of Mr Js 
credit card account allowed Lloyds to do this I dont think it treated  him fairly.
I already explained in my provisional  decision that when Lloyds wrote to Mr J in September  
2018 it informed  him that it would monitor his account over the next 18 months and that it 
might ask him to increase  his payments.  So, when  Lloyds wrote to Mr J again  in January 
2019 to inform him that his minimum repayments  were increased from 1% to 2% of his 
outstanding balance plus interest and charges  I think this contradicted  what Lloyds had 
previously told Mr J and I also think that Lloyds increased Mr Js minimum repayments  
sooner than it should have done  under the rules relating to persistent debt. 
The rules  on persistent debt broadly require financial businesses  to contact their customers 
to explain that theyve been  in persistent debt for 18 months, to explain that increasing their 
payments will reduce the cost of their borrowing  and allow  them to pay the balance  sooner 
and to explain that if they remain  in persistent debt for 36 months their card may be 
suspended and they may be given options  to increase their payments. 
Ref: DRN29537814I think Lloyds complied  with this part of the rules when it wrote to Mr J in September  2018. I 
appreciate Mr J says he never  received this letter but I dont  have any reason to doubt  it was 
sent and I cant  fairly hold Lloyds responsible for problems with the post.
Under the rules  on persistent debt it isnt until an account has been  in persistent debt for 36 
months that a business can set out options to require customers  to increase their payments.  
So here, I think Lloyds  acted sooner than it should have  done. While I appreciate Mr Js  
strength of feeling  about the way hes been treated by Lloyds, the role of our service isnt to 
punish Lloyds   as that is the role of the FCA. Instead, I need to look at the impact  this had 
on Mr J and to look at what Lloyds  needs to do as far as possible, to put Mr J in the same 
position as he would  have been in had the problem not occurred. 
In August  2019  Lloyds  agreed  to reverse  its decision  to increase  Mr Js  minimum  
payments,  it also agreed  to remove  any late payment  indicators  reported  to credit  
reference  agencies  and to restore  his credit  limit to its previous  level.  It also 
credited  Mr J's and his partner's  joint account  with a payment  of £1,065.  
Lloyds  has confirmed  that the £1,065  payment  it credited  to Mr and Mrs Js 
account  was mainly  a refund  of interest  charged  during  the period  Lloyds  
increased  the minimum  repayments  from 1% to 2% and with a small  amount  
representing  a refund  the difference  between  the amount  they paid due to their 
minimum  payment  being  increased  to 2% and what  they would  have  paid had it 
remained  at 1%. 
I realise  Mr J doesnt  see this as compensation  but I dont  agree.  Here,  the terms  
and conditions  of Mr Js credit  card account  allowed  Lloyds  to charge  Mr J interest  
on his outstanding  credit  card balance.  When  Lloyds  increased  Mr Js repayments  
from 1% to 2% of his outstanding  credit  card balance  plus interest  and charges,  
this was an increase  not in the rate of interest  Mr J was being  charged  but an 
increase  in the minimum  amount  he would  need  to repay  each  month   and which  
he already  owed.
I cant  say Lloyds  did anything  wrong  in charging  Mr J interest  on his outstanding  
balance  because  it was permitted  to do this. Mr J would  have  needed  to pay the 
interest  in any event  so I cant  say he lost out financially  and I explained  in my 
provisional  decision  why I thought  Lloyds  treated  Mr J positively  and 
sympathetically  when  Mr J told Lloyds  that increasing  the minimum  repayments  
would  cause  him financial  difficulty.  
I havent  seen  anything  to suggest  Mr J disputes  that he owes  the outstanding  
balance  to Lloyds  so although  I think  Lloyds  incorrectly  increased  Mr Js minimum  
repayments  from 1% to 2%, because  Mr J owes  this money  to Lloyds  I cant  say 
hes lost out by paying  more  than he should  have  done   and reducing  his 
outstanding  balance  would  also reduce  the amount  of interest  he was charged.  
Mr Js financial  loss,  if any, is the amount  he overpaid  to Lloyds  and which  he 
could  have  put to use elsewhere   for example  by repaying  a credit  card with a 
higher  rate of interest  or for any missed  payments  and financial  penalties  hes 
incurred  to other  lenders  as a result  of overpaying  Lloyds.  I havent  seen  anything  
from Mr J to suggest  that this is the case.
Ref: DRN29537815For the reasons  Ive explained  above  I still think  that Lloyds  has done  enough  to 
put matters  right for Mr J. I realise  that Mr J will be disappointed  by my decision  
but this brings  to an end what  we, as an informal  dispute  resolution  provider,  can 
do to  help resolve  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold  this complaint  in the sense  that I require  Lloyds  Bank  
PLC to put matters  right in accordance  with its August  2019  letter,  to the extent  it has not 
already  done  so. For the reasons  I've explained  above,  I do not require  Lloyds  Bank  PLC 
to pay any further  compensation  or to do any more  than it has already  agreed  to do in its 
August  2019  letter  to settle  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2953781