K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Inchcape Retail Limited  (Inchcape) delayed in settling his finance 
agreement which caused the finance provider to record late payments  on his credit  file.
background
Mr B part exchanged his old car with Inchcape which was the subject of a finance 
agreement. As part of the deal, Inchcape agreed to settle the outstanding finance on Mr Bs 
old car. Inchcape  didnt  settle the finance as agreed  and the finance provider recorded  late 
payment markers  on Mr Bs credit file.
Once Inchcape was made aware of the problem  it contacted Mr B and arranged  to pay off 
the finance. Inchcape  tried to negotiate with the finance provider and the credit reference  
agency on Mr Bs behalf to get the markers removed but it was unable to do so because of 
data protection  issues. In recognition of the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Mr B it 
sent him a cheque  for £150. Mr B didnt think that was enough to compensate  him for the 
stress caused and he was still unhappy that his credit file was damaged so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator considered that Inchcape  had done enough to put things right and so she 
couldnt ask it to do anything further.  She thought that Inchcape  hadnt  delayed in settling the 
finance when  the error  had been discovered  and that Inchcape had tried to put things right in 
respect of Mr Bs credit  file by contacting the finance  provider  and the credit reference  
agency. She thought that £150 was enough  to compensate Mr B for the error.
Mr B didnt agree and replied to say in summary that the offer was an insult  given the 
damage to his credit file and the stress caused.  He set out that there was a default  recorded 
and he was unable  to get any credit  as a result. He said that this would be the position for 
the next five years. Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Bs comments but it didnt change her view 
so Mr B asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Inchcape accepts that it made a mistake  and didnt settle Mr Bs finance when it should have 
done. It has offered  Mr B £150 for this error and taken steps to explain  what  happened with 
the finance company and the credit reference  agencies.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the steps taken by Inchcape are fair and reasonable and Im 
not going to ask it to do any more. I appreciate this this will be a disappointment  to Mr B and 
I do sympathise with his situation.
This service doesnt punish business  for mistakes and we look at what it is fair to ask a  
business to do to put things right for a consumer when things go wrong. In this instance I can 
see that Inchcape took steps  to pay the finance when the error was brought to its attention 
and there  wasnt any undue delay.
I can see why Mr B is upset at the damage  to his credit rating. Inchcape has written  to the 
finance company  and the credit reference  agency to explain the situation. The finance 
Ref: DRN20309122company isnt willing to ask the credit reference agency to remove  the markers as it says 
that Mr B shouldnt have  cancelled  his direct debit until he had received confirmation that 
that finance was settled.  The credit  reference  agency cant  amend the record unless the 
finance company  agrees. I dont think it is fair to hold Inchcape responsible  for the position  
taken by the finance company and Mr B should  take the matter up with the finance company 
if he hasnt already done so. 
I can understand why Mr B cancelled the direct  debit and I do appreciate that the situation  is 
frustrating for him. I cant see that he has tried to apply  for other  credit  and been refused or 
that there  is a default recorded  on his credit file. So I cant  say that Inchcape should 
compensate him for this.
In the circumstances I think that the £150 offered  by Inchcape is fair and reasonable to 
reflect the trouble and upset caused  together with the efforts  made to notify  the finance 
provider and the credit reference agency  of the error. I understand that this hasnt resolved 
the situation with regard  to the credit  file but this is not something that Inchcape is able to do 
or that I can ask Inchcape to correct.
I will leave it to Mr B to decide whether he wants to accept the £150 offered and a 
replacement cheque can be issued.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Inchcape is fair and reasonable and I cant ask it 
to do any more. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2030912