K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC has declined a home  insurance  claim he made 
for theft at his property. 
background
 
There has been extensive background to this complaint  which I wont repeat in full detail 
here. The key points are that Mr P made a claim to Zurich about a theft at his property in 
December 2017.  Zurich has declined the claim because  it says Mr P didnt adhere to an 
endorsement on the policy to keep his windows securely locked.
Mr P has argued that he lost a set of house  keys and that they couldve been  used  to carry 
out the theft. He raised a separate claim for this loss. But Zurich says that Mr P didnt report  
the keys as missing  until after it declined his claim,  so it declined  this element too.
Mr P brought his complaint to our service  where  was looked at by one of our investigators. 
She thought  Zurichs decision to decline Mr Ps claim was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. She said the evidence available  indicates that the property was entered 
through an upstairs window and that there  was no evidence that the window was forced 
open. She also thought that the house keys were more likely to have been  stolen  during  the 
burglary. So she didnt  think  Zurich was wrong to decline this element either.  She considered 
the level of service Mr P had been given, but thought his claim had progressed  as it should 
have done. So she didnt recommend that Zurich should do anything further.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators opinion. So because  no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The fact that Mr Ps property was burgled isnt in dispute. The issue  I need to decide is 
whether Zurichs decision to decline Mr Ps claim is in line with the terms and conditions  of 
the policy and that it is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances.  
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made by both sides.  Having done so, Ive decided not 
to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
Mr Ps policy  contains the following endorsement:
All upper floor opening  windows and skylights must  be secured with key operated 
window locks if accessible from adjoining  roofs, porches, walls, downpipes, balconies 
or external stairs except  those in occupied bedrooms at night and those which are 
designated fire escape routes  as required by current building  regulations.
The police report states that the point of entrance was an unsecured  first floor window 
(which is accessible via an adjoining  flat roof). It says the thieves reached in through  a small 
open window  to open a larger  adjacent window. The report says there were fingerprints  and 
a footprint obtained  from near the window to support this finding.  I havent seen any 
Ref: DRN22595752evidence to suggest that the thieves gained access through another  entrance point. So on 
balance, I find the police  report persuasive  and accept that this window was the most likely  
point of entry.
Zurich has assessed  photographs of this window and found no evidence that it was forced 
open  such as damage to the window or frame. So it has drawn the conclusion that the 
window was likely left open and declined the claim on the basis  that Mr P didnt comply  with 
the policy endorsement.
Mr P says that he locked  the main windows securely and that that the small upper window 
was locked in a slightly open position. He says this is a secure  feature of these types  of 
windows and that the opening left wouldnt have been big enough to access  the adjacent 
larger window. He says the opening  couldnt have been made bigger by the thieves without 
the use of force, such as with a crow bar, and he accepts there is no evidence that either 
window was forced in this way.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ps arguments here. I think  its debatable whether locking the 
window in a slightly  open position  is sufficient to mean that he has complied with the policy 
endorsement  but I dont  think  I need  to decide that here. This is because there is no 
evidence that the window  in question was forced open. So even if I were  to accept that 
locking the window in an open  position complied with the endorsement, I still dont think its 
unreasonable of Zurich  to conclude that the window wasnt locked  because  there  is no 
evidence that it was forced open.
Mr P reported a set of house keys missing  in February 2018  around seven weeks after the 
theft. He believes  that the thieves could have used  these keys, rather than the window,  to 
enter the property on the date of the theft.  Ive considered this. But from what Ive seen there 
was no mention of any missing house  keys during the initial  claim. It seems  they were  only 
reported to the police after the claim was declined. So taking all of the available evidence  
into account I think that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that the 
thieves gained access using a window that was left unlocked, and that the keys were taken 
during this theft. 
It follows that I dont think Zurich was wrong to decline Mr Ps claim  either  for the initial 
theft or for the missing  keys.
In terms of the level of service provided by Zurich,  Ive seen nothing to indicate that the claim 
was unnecessarily delayed, or that it asked  for any information it didnt need. I understand 
that any claim for theft is likely  to be distressing, particularly where it is then declined, so I do 
sympathise with Mr P. But from what Ive seen Zurich handled the claim as I would expect, 
and I think its decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against  Zurich Insurance  PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN22595753
Ref: DRN2259575