K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, (BoS), trading as Birmingham  Midshires,  mis-
sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance, (PPI,) policy  in 2000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Because the sale was so long ago BoS has been unable to supply  copies of the paperwork 
signed by Mrs H at the time. Nor does BoS have  a record of how the sale took place. But 
Mrs H says that the policy was sold to her during a meeting and that BoS recommended  that 
she take it out. Ive made my decision on that basis.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs H says that BoS asked her if she wanted  the PPI. But she says she declined  it 
because she would  have  had to wait for 12 weeks before  she could make a claim. She 
also says that a member  of her family, who worked in finance, advised her against taking 
it. However, on balance, I think its likely  that BoS made it clear  that Mrs H didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I say this because  its been about 20 years 
since the sale and I dont think that its fair and reasonable to rely solely on Mrs Hs 
recollection of what took place.  And the period  before  which Mrs H could make  any claim 
under the policy  was 30 days  not 12 weeks. The policy allowed for some flexibility  on this 
excess period, and the monthly benefit payable, so Im satisfied that there must have 
been some discussion  about the terms Mrs H wanted.  And, again on balance, I think it is 
most unlikely that BoS would have added the PPI to her mortgage unless she agreed to 
it after the discussion;
 
Ref: DRN29506702BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Knowing what I do about her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. I say this 
because:
oShe was eligible for the policy;
oShe wasnt affected by any of the PPIs main  restrictions  and exceptions  such  as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe PPI initially cost about £12 a month. And I havent seen anything to suggest that 
this was unaffordable for Mrs H. In any event,  as the insurance was paid for monthly, 
she could have  cancelled  it at any time without  further cost had she later felt that she 
could no longer afford it or didnt want it;
oMrs H has told us that she was entitled to some  sick pay from her employer. But, 
following a successful  claim, the policy  would  have  paid out £250 a month in addition 
to this, leaving the sick pay available to help her meet other  expenditure while she 
wasnt working. And the PPI would have paid out similarly  had she become 
voluntarily unemployed. These payments would have continued for up to 12 months,  
which was longer than her sick pay would have been payable. So I think  that the PPI 
could have been of use to her;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies available  in 
the market at the time. And it had a reasonable benefit;
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But, from what Ive concluded  above,  I dont  think  that better  information  
would have put off Mrs H and stopped her taking  it. 
This means  BoS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - including  what she has said about  her 
husband being able to help had she been off work.  As we explain on our website, we dont 
usually take this type of potential help into account because  circumstances  change   and 
such assistance isnt guaranteed. Theres nothing Ive found in Mrs Hs case to make me 
think its reasonable to deviate from this approach here. So this doesnt change my decision.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs H about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair:  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN29506703my final decision
My decision  is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Bank  of Scotland plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.  
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2950670