K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are complaining that Gresham Insurance Company Limited entered them into 
a running account  credit  agreement to pay for a home insurance policy  without their 
knowledge.
Mr and Mrs H took out the insurance  policy and finance policy through their bank.  The bank 
has corresponded on Greshams  behalf. But for ease  of reference I shall refer to any actions 
and representations carried out by the bank as being carried out by Gresham.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a home  insurance  policy arranged by their banking provider from at least 
2006 with the policy renewing each year. The policy was provided by Gresham.  In 2016, 
they chose to not renew the policy as they said they found a cheaper policy  with a higher 
level of cover. 
In November 2016 Gresham sent out a statement of account  for the previous  year.  Mr and 
Mrs H say this was the first they became aware theyd taken out a credit agreement, so they 
complained to Gresham that theyd never  been asked to sign to take out the credit  
agreement. And they said it was a requirement  under the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) 
that the agreement was signed for it to be enforceable. They  also think  Gresham should 
have required them to enter into a new finance agreement  each year.
Mr and Mrs H also didnt think Gresham had clearly set out that it was charging interest on 
the annual premium for each policy. They said they wouldnt have entered  into the finance 
agreement had they known, as they said it was an expensive way of paying for the 
insurance. So they want Gresham to refund all the interest theyd  paid on the finance 
agreements.
Mr and Mrs H also complained that they think  Gresham  should have got a number of quotes  
as a broker for their insurance policy.
Gresham responded to say in 2012 it changed  the process where consumer paid for their 
policies monthly and required them to enter into credit agreements from this point. So it said 
Mr and Mrs H entered  into a running  account agreement from this date to pay for the 
insurance policies.  And it explained the credit  agreement was included  within  the renewal 
documents. Gresham said it had understood that it needed to take reasonable steps to try 
and get the policyholders to sign the credit agreement, but it wasnt  necessary to get the 
agreement signed.
Gresham said it thought  it had taken reasonable steps to try to get Mr and Mrs H to sign the 
credit agreement. And it highlighted  that they had 14 days  to withdraw from the agreement 
had they wanted to.
Finally, Gresham  said it wasnt acting as an insurance broker  when selling the policy.  So it 
wasnt required to give a number of quotes.  And it said it was for Mr and Mrs H to research  
the best policy for them.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with Gresham, so they referred the complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding  this complaint. And I said the following:
Ref: DRN25121402Mr and Mrs H took out an insurance policy through Gresham in around 2006.  And from 
2012 they entered into a finance agreement with Gresham to pay for insurance through  
monthly instalments.  They have  complained  about Greshams actions as the finance 
provider and the insurer. They have also about  the actions of their bank  as a credit  broker. 
Some of what Mr and Mrs H have complained about  are the actions of their bank in 
arranging the finance agreement and insurance policy. I think  the bank were acting as a tied 
broker to Gresham in arranging the insurance policy,  so I think it was acting on Greshams 
behalf in this respect. 
Further to this, Section  56 CCA deems credit-brokers and suppliers  to be the agent of the 
creditor when conducting antecedent negotiations with a debtor in relation to goods and 
services purchased with finance under certain  agreements. 
So this means  Gresham  can also be held liable for the banks actions about the way in which  
the finance agreement was brokered. 
Given this, Im able to look at the banks actions as if they were  carried out by Gresham. So, 
for ease  of reference,  I shall refer to any actions the bank did as being made by Gresham.
finance agreement
Mr and Mrs H say that they didnt know that they had taken out a finance agreement and that 
Gresham didnt make them aware theyd done so until 2016. Further to this they say they 
didnt sign the agreement,  so they dont think its enforceable.  Gresham says that they were 
only required  to make reasonable attempts to get a consumer  to sign the agreement.
In relation to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint that the agreement is unenforceable because  it isnt 
signed, Ive considered Section 61(1)(a) CCA 1974  which provides that a regulated credit 
agreement is not properly executed unless  its signed in the prescribed manner both by 
the debtor  or hirer and by or on behalf  of the creditor or owner.  I also note the agreement 
sets out the following:
This is a Credit Agreement regulated  by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms.
Weve asked Gresham to show  where  it was advised it was only required to make  
reasonable attempts to get a consumer to sign the agreement, but it hasnt provided us with 
anything to support  this. And, given the requirements of Section 61(1) I disagree with what  
Gresham have said in this respect.  
Theres no dispute the agreement wasnt signed, electronically or otherwise. So it appears  
as though the contract wasnt properly executed because Mr and Mrs H didnt sign it. The 
CCA sets out that, where a regulated agreement isnt signed,  it can only be enforced by a 
court. This means that if a business sought to enforce  a credit agreement  which  hasnt been 
signed, it would need to get a court order to enable  it to do so. 
Case law has previously considered what would be considered enforcement of a credit 
agreement. And this suggests that Gresham simply politely requiring Mr and Mrs H to make 
their contractual repayments wouldnt be considered enforcement. 
Ref: DRN25121403Its important to note that this service is not a court and so it isnt able to make a declaration  
of enforceability, but I can look at whether Gresham treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and 
reasonably. Ultimately, Ive not seen anything to show that Gresham looked  to enforce the 
agreement, as Mr and Mrs H made  all the monthly  repayments on time with no issues or 
demand. And, even if the agreement wasnt properly executed,  it doesnt automatically  follow  
that it was invalid. Whats more, its particularly important  to note that the credit  agreement 
has now ended,  so in my view the issue of enforcement to some extent falls away  but I can 
look at other  aspects of what  Mr and Mrs H are complaining  about  here.  
I think the key issues  I have to decide  in this case are whether Gresham fairly and 
reasonably made them aware of the agreement,  whether  they lost out by not knowing about  
the agreement  and, if so, what that loss was.
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs H didnt  know  theyd entered  into a finance  agreement as I think  
they assumed  everything had continued  as before. And, given they werent asked to sign the 
agreement (and didnt do so), I dont think this was an unreasonable  assumption.  
Up until 2012,  Gresham allowed  Mr and Mrs H to pay for the insurance policy  monthly by 
direct debit instalments.  But, around 2012,  it changed its process whereby it would require 
policyholders to enter into a finance agreement  to enable them to pay for the policy monthly. 
This was consistent with standard  industry  practice as its now common practice for 
consumers to enter into finance  agreements to enable them  to finance the annual premium  
through monthly instalments.  
Its not unreasonable that Gresham changed  its processes in this respect. But it needed to 
ensure Mr and Mrs H had enough information to make an informed choice about what  their 
options were. In particular, I think it needed to explain they were  entering into a finance 
agreement and how much  it would cost to do so. Ive looked at the paperwork Mr and Mrs H 
were given at the time.
Gresham sent a covering  letter with the paperwork to explain the insurance policy  was 
renewing. I think it should have made it clearer to Mr and Mrs H that it was now requiring 
them to enter into a finance agreement. And I particularly note the covering letter  doesnt  ask 
them to sign the agreement. So I dont  think Gresham sufficiently made this clear.  
That said I can also see the covering letter sets out the total cost includes £61.53 in interest 
and it also sets out the respective interest rates. So, although Gresham didnt make  the fact 
they were entering  into a credit agreement sufficiently clear, I think Mr and Mrs H should 
have been reasonably aware of how much  it was costing to pay the insurance premium 
monthly and that this amount contained  an interest element. 
So, overall, I do agree with Mr and Mrs H that Gresham  should have done more when it first 
entered them into the finance agreement  notably  it should have explained more clearly 
they were entering  into a running account  credit agreement and required them to sign the 
agreement. But I dont think theyve lost out as a result and Ill now explain why.
It seems  to me that Mr and Mrs H were keen to pay for the insurance policy  monthly. But 
Gresham didnt provide the option  to pay for the policy by direct  debit  payments in the 
manner it had before.  So entering  into a credit agreement enabled Mr and Mrs H to continue 
to pay for the insurance monthly   the alternative would be that theyd have had to pay the 
premium in full up front.  And Im not persuaded they would have wanted to do so. Given this, 
Im satisfied they have  had a benefit of the finance and that the cost of the insurance 
Ref: DRN25121404payment made in monthly  instalments was made clear to them.  So I think  its fair and 
reasonable that they should  pay for it.
Mr and Mrs H have also said they think they should  have been required  to sign a new 
finance agreement  for each insurance policy they entered  into. But I dont agree. Mr and Mrs 
H entered into a running account credit  agreement in 2012. In doing so, Gresham effectively 
provides an ongoing credit  facility and at each  renewal it draws upon  this credit facility  to 
finance the annual premium. Mr and Mrs H then make monthly repayments to repay the 
credit provided. So this means Mr and Mrs H didnt  need to enter into a new credit 
agreement with every renewal. So while I appreciate they didnt sign the first agreement,  
there wasnt a requirement to sign the agreement again.
Ive also thought about S78 (4) CCA 1974 which requires Gresham to send annual  
statements to show Mr and Mrs H what they were  charged in interest over the year. 
However, Gresham has provided a copy of the annual statement it sent in 2013 and Im 
satisfied the statements were sent in the years  following. So it follows that Im satisfied 
Gresham has complied with its responsibilities under S78(4) in respect to the running 
account credit agreement Mr and Mrs H took out. 
Finally, Ive considered  Mr and Mrs Hs comments that they think Gresham breached the 
Data Protection Act as they needed to give permission  to pass their details onto a third party. 
But Gresham provided both the insurance policy and the running  account credit agreement. 
So it didnt pass their details to a third-party  finance provider to arrange the finance. And I 
havent seen anything to show Gresham did breach the Data Protection Act. But, even if it 
did, I havent seen  anything to show Mr and Mrs H have lost out as a result.
So I dont  think Gresham needs  to do anything to put this right in this respect.
insurance policy
Mr and Mrs H have complained that their annual premium almost  doubled over the 10 years 
they had the policy. Theyre also unhappy  they were able to source a cheaper policy that 
they say also had a higher level of cover. I should  first state that this service  isnt the 
regulator. So its not our role to direct Gresham generally about how it conducts  its business 
or sets its premiums. But I can look at whether it has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly.  
When a customer has been with the same  insurer for a number of years and the policy  has 
renewed year on year with little engagement on the price, we want to be sure the price 
increases have been based on the view of the risk changing. If the price  increased simply 
because Mr and Mrs H werent  engaging, we wouldnt think  this is fair.
Gresham has provided me with confidential,  business sensitive information to explain how it 
calculated the premiums it charged  since 2011.  Im afraid I cant share that information with 
Mr and Mrs H, but Ive considered it carefully.  Having done  so, Im satisfied Gresham  
charged a premium in line with what it would have charged other  customers in a similar  
position  i.e. with similar risk profiles.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into account a large  number of factors.  At the 
renewal of each insurance  policy, Gresham carries out a new risk assessment. And its not 
unusual for a premium  to increase over time.  As I said above, its not down to me to tell 
Gresham what factors it should take into account  when assessing  risk, nor how to go about 
its assessment. Different insurers  will have different views on what presents a risk and the 
Ref: DRN25121405extent of that risk. Ultimately, the annual premium  Gresham charges is essentially a matter 
of commercial judgement  and isnt something with which we would usually think  its fair to 
interfere with. 
I can fully appreciate why Mr and Mrs H were unhappy to find a policy where the annual  
premium was around 50% less than what Gresham were charging. As I said,  different 
insurers will view and price risk differently and a difference  in the price  offered doesnt mean 
Gresham has treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly with how it priced their policy.  As I said above, 
Gresham has shown the premium its charged is in line with what  it would have charged 
other customers with a similar risk profile.  
I note Mr and Mrs H are unhappy Gresham didnt get a number of quotes as a broker for 
their insurance policy. But I dont think it  or the bank as the broker  needed to do so. And 
it was, ultimately, for Mr and Mrs H to decide whether the policy  they were taking out through 
Gresham was suitable for their needs.
Mr and Mrs H responded  to say they didnt accept my provisional decision and, in summary, 
they raised the following  points:
1.They dont think Gresham has ever written  to them since  they first took out the insurance 
in 2006.
2.They think Gresham would have paid the bank commission and at no point was this 
disclosed to them;
3.They dont think Gresham complied with FCA guidelines  in respect to being a 
responsible lender.  They  said theyve  been in financial difficulties since  2010 and they 
said their situation  got worse  in 2011 and had a poor credit rating by this time.  So they 
dont think the bank should  have  referred them to a lender to arrange credit.
4.They maintain  that the premium increases they experienced  between  2007 and 2015 
were excessive.  They also said the interest  charges they incurred increased the 
administration charges they had to pay which they think  was unfair. And they reiterated  
that they think its unfair  they were made to pay interest charges when they were already 
in financial difficulties.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs H dont think Gresham acted in their best interests  as a customer  
when increasing  the annual  premium  and arranging the finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs additional points but I dont  think  theyve raised 
anything new that I can consider  in this decision.  
I appreciate that theyre unhappy the bank received commission for arranging  the finance.  
But theyve raised  this issue with this service  previously and another ombudsman  advised 
that theyd brought this complaint too late. As another  ombudsman has already decided 
whether we can look at this issue Im not able to comment on this further in this further in this 
decision. Mr and Mrs H are free to pursue matter separately directly  with the bank and with 
Gresham.
Ref: DRN25121406I note Mr and Mrs H have said the loan wasnt affordable. But I cant see that theyve raised 
this previously with Gresham.  And this service isnt able to consider a complaint until the 
business has already had an opportunity to consider  it apart form in certain circumstances. 
And those  circumstances dont apply here. So Im unable to consider this aspect  of the 
complaint in this decision. Mr and Mrs H will need  to raise this issue with Gresham directly if 
they wish to pursue  it further.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H dont think its fair that Gresham increased the price charged by 
as much as it did. But, as I said in my provisional  decision its not our role to direct  Gresham 
generally about how it conducts  its business  or sets its premiums. Insurers are entitled  to 
decide what insurance premium they want to charge and its not down to me to tell Gresham 
what factors  it should take into account when  assessing risk, nor how to go about its 
assessment. Ultimately Gresham has shown that the premium its charged is in line with 
what it would  have  charged other customers with a similar risk profile. So I dont think its 
treated them  unfairly.
Im satisfied Gresham has shown it sent Mr and Mrs H a renewal invitation each year setting 
out the annual premium  and the amount of interest they would have to pay over the year. 
And, if Mr and Mrs H were  unhappy with the premium Gresham  was charging  or the amount  
of interest theyd have  to pay, they could have looked to source a different insurance policy.  
So taking everything into account, I dont agree with Mr and Mrs H that Gresham  hasnt had 
regard to the interest of their customers. Ultimately, Gresham is a profit-making business  
and it is entitled  to act as such. The FCA has set out various responsibilities  Gresham has to 
act as a responsible lender and insurer. Ive set out why I dont think  Mr and Mrs H have  lost 
out due to anything Gresham may have done wrong in carrying  out these  responsibilities. 
And they havent  given me anything  to conclude that the outcome  I reached  in my 
provisional decision was unfair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2021.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2512140