K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz)  mis-sold payment protection insurance  
(PPI) with a store  card.
background
Briefly:
In 1997 Mrs A took out PPI at the same  time as taking out a store card during a high street 
store visit. 
The policy was designed to protect  Mrs As card payments in the event she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  At the time the policy cost 66 pence for 
every £100  Mrs A owed  on the card.
At the time Mrs A was working as a nurse  manager  and she was in good health at the time.  
Its not clear whether  she was entitled  to any sick pay, but I have assumed that she was 
entitled to at least six months sick pay given her role and her tenure.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs A chose 
to take out PPI evidenced by her application  from the time. And there was nothing  to indicate 
the policy was wrong  or inappropriate for her.
Mrs A, through her representative  disagrees,  so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because:
I think Allianz made it clear that Mrs A didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Mrs As store card application from the time. And here I can 
see Mrs A ticked the box in the section to take out PPI  she also filled in her name and 
date of birth in the required  fields.
So overall I think Mrs A chose to take out PPI and she did so without undue pressure.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A. This was a sale in a high street store  where I 
dont think Mrs A wouldve  reasonably expected to receive advice   and Ive not seen 
anything to persuade me that it did. So Allianz didnt have to check  if PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Ref: DRN23741632Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. And given the 
monthly benefit of the policy was 15% of the outstanding card balance,  it offered the 
potential for the balance  to be cleared in full. So I think it would have been  useful  for her 
if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what shes said about there being 
no discussion about PPI. But these points dont change my decision. Ive said above that its 
possible Allianz didnt  do all that it should  fairly and reasonably have done when it sold PPI. 
But in light of Mrs As circumstances at the time,  Ive seen nothing to persuade  me that Mrs 
A wouldve likely acted  differently and declined the PPI had Allianz  done  anything more.
This means  Allianz doesnt have to pay back any of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2374163