K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained about a joint life policy recommended by Connells Limited  to 
cover a new mortgage in 2016. They say they already had sufficient protection in place but 
were told that they had to take out the policy for the mortgage application to be successful.
background
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and felt it should be partly upheld. 
He didnt think there was sufficient evidence to conclude that Mr and Mrs G were misled 
about it being a requirement that they take out protection  for their mortgage. But the 
adjudicator did think the adviser had failed to fully consider Mr and Mrs Gs existing life 
cover. While he accepted  that Mrs Gs existing policy hadnt been suitable, as its term was 
too short, he felt the adviser  shouldve given them the option of using Mr Gs existing policy 
to protect  the mortgage in part. 
The adjudicator felt that if this had been done Mr G would  most likely have decided not to 
take the new additional cover. So he recommended that Connells refund from the premiums 
paid to the policy the cost of covering Mr G only, plus interest.    
Connells didnt agree. It said:
Its advisers visit customers in their homes,  meaning they should have access  to the 
relevant information  about their existing cover, if they wish to share  this. 
As the customers were under no obligation to do so, the adviser was not in a position 
to insist that this information was provided.  He would however have been obliged  to 
advise the customers  of the implications that not providing this information would 
have on the recommendations. 
The Statement of Demands  and Needs stated "Please note, that where  you have 
been able to provide sufficient details, I have made recommendations that take 
account of existing 'mortgage protection' cover that you have. Where I have not seen 
evidence of this cover, I have  based my recommendations on what  you have told me 
and if this is not accurate this may affect  the resultant level of cover (i.e. you may end 
up with insufficient/too  much  cover).
There is no suggestion that the existing  policies were 'mortgage protection' and this 
would be consistent with the customers'  situation at the time, as its records show  that 
they were renting  at the time of the appointment. 
Mr and Mrs G responded to say:
The adviser came out to their home and went through  the process. This was all 
verbal and they clearly  remember  telling the adviser they had other policies in place. 
There was never  a request to view or produce the evidence as they were  told they 
had to take the policy recommended to enable the acceptance of the mortgage  offer.
They did ask if they needed the new policy but were told that for the mortgage to go 
ahead they had to take out the policy recommended.
Ref: DRN28149782They explained they both had existing cover, but were told no, it wasnt acceptable 
for the mortgage,  and at no point throughout the consultation did the adviser  request 
or even  suggest  he wanted to see any paperwork relating to their existing cover.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review.
Having initially looked at all the information I reached a slightly different overall conclusion  to 
that reached by the adjudicator. 
I agreed that there wasnt sufficient evidence to support Mr and Mrs G having been  misled 
about the policy being a condition of the borrowing. I also agreed that there appeared to 
have been insufficient consideration given to Mr and Mrs Gs existing life cover.
But, that said, I didnt  think it followed that if more consideration  had been given to Mr and 
Mrs Gs additional cover the result wouldve necessarily been Mr G deciding not to take out 
the new cover. So, I thought a fairer  way of compensating  them was to direct Connells to 
pay £250 to acknowledge the loss of opportunity to Mr and Mrs G of making a more 
informed decision.  
My view of the matter was shared with both parties. Connells accepted it. Mr and Mrs G 
responded to say they were disappointed. They said the suggestion that they "may" have got 
a second policy was alarming as theyd  previously explained that they had a budget and due 
to the advisor  misleading them they went over it. They questioned why anyone  would pay for 
a second policy if there  was no requirement for it. Mr Gs existing cover had far exceeded 
the new mortgage borrowing, as did Mrs Gs, and she intended to renew  when their son 
reached age 18.
They said the sum of £250, compared to the adjudicators original  proposal  to put Mr G back 
in the position hed have  been in if he hadnt  taken the extra cover,  was completely different. 
It was unlikely that £250 would get anywhere near the compensation originally  proposed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand what Mr and Mrs G have said about  their existing  cover  and how unlikely it 
seems that if theyd been properly informed they would  still have opted to take out extra  
cover. And its certainly the case that they had a lot of cover.  For instance, Mr G had 
£400,000 over a 40 year term that he taken out only a year earlier.
But clearly  Mr and Mr G had both taken  out their existing  policies for specific  reasons and I 
assume that at the time they wouldve considered them important. Whatever  their motivation 
 I note they both had children  they had clearly wanted high levels of life cover  well before 
they ever got a mortgage. 
So, as noted,  I dont think it necessarily follows that theyd  have  wanted  to shift some  of that 
existing cover over to the mortgage. The new borrowing was a significant new liability  and 
its not unusual  to take out new, bespoke cover  to cover new borrowing, regardless  of what 
cover is already in place.
Ref: DRN28149783In short,  my view is different to that of the adjudicators simply in that I think its less clear 
that the outcome of them giving more  consideration to their existing life cover wouldve been 
Mr G not taking the new cover. 
As its the case that we just cant know for sure what wouldve happened, in my view its 
fairer for Connells to compensate Mr and Mrs G by way of a payment for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the loss of opportunity to potentially make  a different decision.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Connells 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2814978