K821x#15complaint
Miss P is unhappy with a car she got under a hire agreement provided by Lex Autolease Ltd 
(Lex). She says the car had issues shortly  after she got it which  continued throughout the 
hire period.  And she says the car wasnt fit for purpose.
background
In September  2017 Miss P acquired  a new car using a hire agreement provided  by Lex. The 
initial rental was £1,360.15  and the following monthly hire payments  were £453.38 over 47 
months. The agreement  had a mileage allowance  of 10,000  miles a year.
In October  2017 the car had an issue with its diesel particulate filter (DPF)  system.  The car 
was returned to the dealer  and the DPF was replaced. At this point  the car had covered 606 
miles.
Around a week  later the car again  had an issue with the DPF and it was again replaced. The 
car had covered 901 miles at this point.
In November 2017 Miss P says the car displayed  a warning light about the DPF system. In 
early December 2017 the manufacturers roadside  assistance was called out. They said the 
car showed an amber warning light but the DPF system wouldnt regenerate.  The cars 
mileage was 2,056. A further repair to the DPF system was carried  out shortly after, along 
with a wheel  alignment. 
Around this time Lex said Miss P stopped paying for the car. Miss P says this was because 
she was unhappy  with it.
In January 2018 Miss P complained to Lex. She said she was unhappy  with the amount of 
times the car had needed to be returned to the dealer and she believed  the car was 
unsuitable for her because of the number  of miles she drove.
Lex issued its final response in March 2018. It said the DPF issues had been caused by 
driving style and the car was not being  driven to the manufacturers instructions set out in the 
handbook. It also said no concerns wouldve been raised at the point of sale about this, as 
the agreement  had an annual mileage allowance of 10,000 a year.  Lex said it wasnt  
upholding Miss Ps complaint.
In March 2018 the manufacturers roadside assistance was again called out. 
Miss P remained unhappy with the situation and brought  her complaint to our service. An 
investigator issued  an initial  opinion in January 2019. This said,  in summary,  that the 
investigator thought  the issues with the DPF were likely caused by Miss Ps driving style  
specifically that she wasnt  completing enough  longer journeys to clear  the DPF. She also 
said she didnt think the dealer knew Miss P would  be mostly using the car for shorter 
journeys. So, she didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss P responded and said the dealer knew exactly how far she would be driving the car. 
We told Miss P around this time that we needed to look into her complaint in some  more 
detail.
Ref: DRN29050722In April 2019 Miss P told us the car had broken down. In May 2019 and June 2019, the car 
was again returned to the dealer due to DPF warning lights.  The mileage at these points was 
3,961 and 4,215. 
Miss P then says the car broke down again in September 2019. In January  2020 Miss P said 
shed been told the car needed  the DPF replacing  again. She was worried at this point as 
she said she couldnt afford to have work done to the car and the warranty  was running out. 
Miss P said the mileage was around  9,500 at this point.
In March 2020 Lex contacted our service and said, having reviewed things again, that it 
wasnt satisfied the driving requirements were adequately explained  to Miss P when she got 
the car. So, it offered to allow Miss P to reject  it. It said it would  pay Miss P £500 for any 
distress and inconvenience caused. And it said it would remove  the equivalent of 15% of the 
rental payments due for the period she had the car from Miss Ps arrears.
Miss P said she would likely accept this offer, but she wanted to know some  further  details 
about it. Lex reiterated that because Miss P had stopped making  payments towards the hire 
agreement some time ago, it would  reimburse  her 15% of any repayments  made  and would 
waive 15% of any repayments  outstanding.
Miss P was unhappy  with this. She said, in summary, that she should be reimbursed 
everything she paid for the car and shouldnt have to pay anything further.
In July 2020 our investigator issued a second opinion.  This explained  that she was now 
upholding the complaint.  She said, in summary,  that she didnt think  the car was suitable  for 
Miss P because of the way she intended to use it. She also said she thought there was an 
issue with the DPF.  
She recommended Lex put things right by paying  Miss P £500  to reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience caused and removing any negative information from Miss Ps credit file. Our 
investigator said she thought Miss P had tried to reject the car in January 2018, so she said 
nothing should  be owed to Lex from Miss P after that point. And she said Lex should  refund 
15% of all repayments made towards the agreement and waive  15% of repayments owed 
until January 2018.
Lex disagreed  with the investigators view. It said it didnt agree with the reasoning our 
investigator used to reach the conclusion that there  was an issue with the DPF. And it said 
although Miss P did ask to reject the car in January 2018, she had continued use it after this 
point. So, it said it wasnt fair for her not to pay anything for this period.
The case  was then passed to a second  investigator to look into things further. She confirmed  
to Miss P that Lex was still willing to settle  things with its previous offer. 
In October  2020 the second  investigator  issued an opinion also upholding the complaint. In 
summary, she said she thought Miss P should  pay for use of the car after the point she 
asked to reject it. But, she said Miss P had told us she hadnt  used the car since it broke 
down in January  2020, when she said the mileage  was around 9,500. So, our investigator 
didnt think Miss P should pay for use of the car from that point. She also thought any 
negative information  should be removed from Miss Ps credit  file about the agreement.
Miss P was still unhappy with this. She reiterated that she didnt think  she should have to 
pay anything towards the car. Lex responded and said the car wouldve continued to 
Ref: DRN29050723depreciate when Miss P stopped driving it and it had tried to collect  the car several  times  
already to limit Miss Ps liability. It also questioned editing Miss Ps credit file.
We asked Miss P some  further questions about  the car around this time. She responded and 
said the car hadnt been used since April 2020 and the mileage was now around 14,500. 
The case  was then passed to me for a decision. I asked Miss P to clarify some  further  details 
about her use of the car. She said the car was not used  at all between December 2017  to 
May 2018 and from September 2018 to March 2019. 
I also asked Miss P to confirm when she last drove the car and to send me a photo of the 
current mileage. Miss P sent a photo showing that in March 2021  the car had covered 
16,257 miles.
I sent Miss P and Lex a provisional  decision  on 16 April 2021. Ive included my findings from 
this decision below:
Miss P complains  about a hire agreement. In this case, Im satisfied from what  shes  said 
that she acquired the car wholly or predominately for business purposes.  So, I need  to 
consider if the agreement  was regulated.
The agreement wasnt taken in the name of a limited company. And looking at the total due 
under the agreement, this comes  to £22,669.01. Because  the total amount due was under 
£25,000, Im satisfied this was a regulated agreement. So, it follows  that Im satisfied we can 
consider Miss Ps complaint about  Lex.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. Both of our investigators mentioned  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in their 
opinions. But, because  Miss P acquired  the car for business use, I dont think that act 
applies here. But, I do think  the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 (SGSA) is relevant 
to this complaint.
The SGSA explains  that under a hire agreement,  there is a requirement  that the bailor  Lex 
in this case  needs  to make sure goods under  the agreement were  of satisfactory quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  any 
relevant factors. In this case, I think relevant factors would be things like, but not limited  to, 
the cars  age, price,  description and mileage.
The SGSA also explains  that the goods  needed to be reasonably fit for purpose, where the 
bailee, Miss P here, made it known to either Lex or a broker of the credit  any particular 
purpose that the goods would be used for. Im satisfied in this case that the dealer brokered 
the credit.
What I need to think about  in this case is whether the car that was supplied  to Miss P was of 
satisfactory quality or not. I also need  to consider if I think its likely Miss P made it known to 
Lex, or the dealer, any particular purpose  shed be using the car for  and if so whether the 
car was reasonably  fit for that purpose.
When considering  all of this, Ill take into account  that the car Miss P got was brand new.  
She was paying  over £450 a month to hire it and the car was from a brand considered by 
many to be an upmarket manufacturer. So, I think a reasonable  person  would  have very high 
Ref: DRN29050724standards for the quality  of the car. I also think they would expect to have trouble free 
motoring for a significant amount of time.
Was the car of satisfactory quality?
It doesnt seem to be in any dispute  that the car supplied  to Miss P developed issues with 
the DPF system. But, to make things very clear I should point out that Im satisfied this was 
the case. I say this as Miss Ps car was taken to a garage for repair and was seen by 
roadside recovery in relation  to the DPF several times. The DPF system was also replaced 
multiple times.
What is in dispute, and what I need  to consider here, is the reason behind the system 
developing faults. Lex say any issue with the DPF was caused by Miss Ps driving  style.  So, 
Ive considered if I think its likely this was the case, or if there were other factors  involved.
Ive considered what the cars handbook says about the DPF system. This says:
Cleaning of the exhaust filter is also known  as regeneration. The cleaning  occurs 
automatically, approximately  every 300 to 900km
Self-cleaning takes place  when the vehicle is driven  steadily at speeds between 60 km/h 
and 112 km/h (37 mph & 70 mph).  The process normally takes 10 to 20 minutes.  Self-
cleaning can occur at lower vehicle speeds, but the process may take a little longer at 50 
km/h (30 mph) average  speed.
The handbook goes on to explain what happens if the car isnt driven with the opportunity for 
the DPF to self-clean. It says warning lights will appear as follows:
Amber: exhaust  filter self-cleaning is required.  Driving above 60 km/h (37 mph)  for 20 
minutes should clean the filter.  
NOTES
Failure to follow the above driving approach, to enable  filter self-cleaning, may result  in 
reduced vehicle  performance.  A red exhaust  filter icon replaces the amber  exhaust  filter 
icon, indicating that the filter is full and may need  replacing.
Green: Exhaust  filter self-cleaning is complete
Red: The exhaust  filter is full. Contact a retailer/authorised repairer as soon as possible.
Ive then considered  what  Miss P told us about  how she was using the car. She said the car 
was used mostly for short  journeys, for instance  her commute  which  was around  five miles. 
So, initially  it appears this commute might not be enough for the DPF system  to regenerate. 
But, I dont think this tells the whole story. I say this as Miss P also told us she did longer 
journeys in the car from time to time. This is reflected  by some of the mileage covered in the 
car  which Ill come  on to. And, Ive also considered what the job sheets from when the car 
was returned to the garage say along  with the breakdown reports.
Lex says there is no evidence there was ever a fault with the system. But I dont agree here.  
The job sheet from the first time the DPF was replaced says:
Ref: DRN29050725FAULT TRACED TO FULL DPF FILTER AS A RESULT OF LOSE (sic) INDUCTION PIPE
This job sheet specifically says the fault was due to an induction  pipe  not as a result of 
driving style. 
Ive also considered the next time work  was carried  out on the car. It appears  the car broke  
down around seven days after this. In this time,  it had covered a further  295 miles. I dont 
know for sure, but this seems like quite  a high mileage to have been covered in this time 
without at least one portion  of a journey being made that was suitable to regenerate the 
system.
There is also some further evidence I think shows the system wasnt regenerating as it 
should. The job sheet  from May 2019  says:
we have  been  able to recreate this cobcern (sic) on a previous  visit when  we had the car for 
a couple of weeks. Customer has driven  daily to Nottingham and Gatwick  (within last 2 
weeks) & light had come on!
Ive also considered what the warning system  was supposed to do according to the 
handbook. It appears  the system  should  give an amber warning, in order to prompt the driver 
to make a longer  journey.  If this didnt happen, the light should  then turn red - but only if this 
wasnt done and when the DPF was full. But, Miss P has been consistent  with what shes 
said about the fact that on several occasions an amber light didnt appear  she says a red 
light appeared straight away.
Ive considered that on a breakdown report from December  2017 it states that Miss P has 
tried to clear  the DPF when she did get an amber warning by driving  around, but this didnt 
work. It then goes on to say that although  the light was amber,  the DPF system wouldnt 
regenerate as the soot was above  the limit. Thinking about this, I dont  think  the system was 
performing in line with what the handbook  explains or giving warnings as it should.
Ive also thought about the mileage of the car when it had to have work done on the DPF. Im 
satisfied that Miss P must have been driving  in a way that cleared the DPF from time to time 
 otherwise the DPF system wouldve become full much quicker than it did and wouldve had 
issues more frequently.
Ive thought very carefully about all of this. Ive carefully considered everything Lex have said 
about Miss Ps driving style. I accept  she was completing frequent  short  journeys which are 
not ideal  for this engine type.  And I also accept that one of the job sheets does  say the 
issues are due to driving style. 
But, considering all the above,  on balance,  I think its most likely there was an underlying  
issue with the DPF system.  Im satisfied, given how quickly this issue appeared, that it was 
present at the point of supply. It follows that Im satisfied the car was not of satisfactory  
quality when Miss P acquired it.
Its important to note that I appreciate this isnt a totally clear cut case,  given Miss Ps use of 
the car. So, I should point out that even if I reached the opposite conclusion  here and 
accepted the fault with the DPF was entirely  due to driving style,  I would still uphold the 
complaint and recommend Lex do the same  thing to put things right. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN29050726Was the car reasonably fit for purpose?
Miss P has been very consistent with her testimony  about what the car was going to be 
mostly used  for. She says the dealer was fully aware of this as she told them  about  her 
intended use of the car before she got it. She says the dealer was very local to her, and it 
must have  understood what her commute wouldve been as she only lived around two miles 
from the dealer,  and she explained to it where her house and business were.
Thinking about  this, Im satisfied on balance its most likely Miss P told the dealer she would  
be mostly using the car for short journeys.  Thinking about what  the SGSA  says,  Im satisfied 
this means Miss P made the broker aware  of a particular purpose  she was intending to use 
the car for before the contract  was entered into.
Ive also considered that since Miss P got the car my understanding  is the manufacturer and 
dealer network  have  changed their sales process for this type of engine. I believe additional 
questions are asked  and information is given  to consumers to check  the type of car is 
suitable for their needs. Im satisfied  this didnt happen when Miss P acquired her car.
Thinking about  all of this and given what the handbook  says about the DPF system and how 
this works, Im satisfied  the car wasnt reasonably  fit for purpose.
Putting things right
Firstly, I know  how strongly Miss P feels about the fact that she believes she shouldnt have 
to pay anything towards the agreement due to the issues  with the car. I appreciate how 
frustrating for Miss P it must have been  to end up with a car that wasnt  performing as she 
expected. And I know she asked  early on in the agreement  to reject the car which was 
declined. Given the conclusion I reached  above,  I think it wouldve been reasonable to allow  
her to do this at the time.
But, I have to consider  that Miss P continued  to use the car after she asked to reject  it. 
Although it did require repairs and didnt perform  as it should, shes  completed over 16,000 
miles in the car. I do not think its fair and reasonable that Miss P would get to drive a car 
worth over £33,000 without paying  for it  even if it wasnt  performing as it should. Ive also 
considered that it appears Lex has offered to collect the car several times from Miss P which 
has been declined  by her.
The investigator who initially upheld the complaint said Miss P shouldnt pay for the use of 
the car after she asked  to reject it. But I dont agree with this approach.  Had Miss P stopped 
driving the car at this point  I would say this was reasonable   but this isnt what  happened.
Our second investigator said Miss P should  pay for use of the car up to January 2020, when 
she told us she stopped using the car. I agree with this in principle   and I think its fair 
Miss P pays for the time shes driven the car. 
I asked Miss P to give a breakdown of exactly when she used the car. She explained she 
hadnt driven it between December 2017  to May 2018. But, looking at the evidence from 
around this time, it appears the mileage recorded went  up in this period. So, I think  its most 
likely the car was being driven here. 
Miss P also said the car wasnt driven between September 2018 to March 2019. Miss P told 
us about an issue  where the car was retained by the Police. I havent seen any detail about  
Ref: DRN29050727this incident and Miss P has provided  very little information about it. But, on balance,  I 
havent seen enough to make me think the car wasnt  used in this period. And, even if it 
wasnt, I havent seen  enough to make  me think this was due to the issues  with the DPF 
system.
Miss P told our investigator that she stopped driving  the car in January 2020. But, I dont 
think its most likely  Miss P did stop driving the car here. I say this, firstly, as she later told us 
she hadnt used  the car since April 2020   not January. 
In January 2020 Miss P said the mileage of the car was around  9,500. In April she said the 
mileage was around 14,500. Around  October 2020  she also told us the mileage was still 
around 14,500   so it appears the car may not have been used for this period. But, in March  
2021 Miss P provided a photo showing the car had covered 16,257 miles  or around 1,750  
miles over the figure shed previously told us.
Ive thought carefully about this. In fairness  to Miss P, I dont have  any evidence such as 
photos or job sheets  to show  what the mileage was in April 2020, so it is possible she told us 
a lower amount  than was actually on the car. 
If the figures  are correct, this would mean Miss P had covered an average of, roughly, 
around 160 miles a month between April 2020 and March 2021. This represents a very 
significant reduction in the use of the car looking at the previous period. And, it is a very 
significant amount  under  what her mileage  allowance was under the agreement.
I also think, had Miss P left the car totally still for this period,  this couldve created further 
problems with it. I dont  know  exactly what happened here. But, thinking about  things in the 
round, I think  its fair and reasonable  that Miss P shouldnt pay towards the hire agreement 
from April 2020. It follows that I think Lex should treat the agreement  as though Miss P 
rejected the car at this point.
I also dont think Miss P should pay for the total hire cost for the period she had use of the 
car, as it wasnt performing as it should. Lex, and our investigator, said they thought Miss P 
should get a 15% reduction  on the hire costs due under the agreement and a 15% 
reimbursement of any hire cost she did pay. I think this is fair and reasonable.
Our second investigator said they thought Lex should remove any adverse information  from 
Miss Ps credit file. Ive thought very carefully  about what  Lex said in response to this. I 
appreciate Lex needs  to report  accurate  information  to credit reference  agencies. But, Im 
also satisfied that, on balance, Miss P only stopped making the hire payments because the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. I cant know for sure.  But, had everything happened as it 
should, I think its most likely Miss P wouldve made  the repayments on time.  So, I think its 
fair and reasonable Lex removes any negative information about  the agreement  from 
Miss Ps credit file.
Finally, I think  Miss P will have suffered some distress and inconvenience due to what  
happened here. I think the offer to pay Miss P £500 to reflect this is fair.
Miss P does have a significant amount that she will now owe to Lex. Lex should treat this 
situation with forbearance and consideration, and I would expect it to reach an agreement 
with Miss P to come to an affordable repayment plan.
I gave both parties one month to come  back with any further comments or information.
Ref: DRN29050728Miss P replied  and questioned one of the points I had made  about  putting things right.
Lex responded and said it would agree to the proposed outcome in order  to bring things to a 
close. It later responded with some further comments  and costs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Miss P said in response to my provisional decision.  When I listed 
what I initially thought  Lex should  do to put things right, one of the points was to cancel the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay.  Miss P thought this meant  she wouldnt owe Lex 
anything.
I have explained  this separately  to Miss P, but to be clear,  what I meant by this was that 
nothing further  should be charged once the agreement is cancelled.  As I explained and set 
out above, Miss P will still owe Lex funds.  But Ive changed this under my final decision 
below for clarity. 
Lex responded and gave  us an estimated breakdown of what  Miss P will owe. I wont 
comment on these calculations as it is up to Lex to ensure these  are accurate, and these will 
alter depending on the date they are worked  out.
Lex did say Miss P received two charges  which I have assumed are parking fines  after 
1 April 2020. It says this means the car may have  been in some use after this point.  As I 
explained in my provisional decision,  it is possible Miss P did use the car, but if so it 
appeared to be at a much  reduced rate. And, Ive also considered the specific  location of 
these fines  it seems to me that Miss P would likely  have only been parking here and using 
the car in a difficult  situation.
So, I still think the agreement should  still be treated as though the car was rejected on 1 April 
2020. Thinking  about things in the round and Miss Ps financial situation, I think  the fairest 
thing to do would be not to charge Miss P the administration  fees of £10 each for these  fines.
Ive reconsidered  all of the other information  and evidence on the case. Having done so, I 
still think this complaint should  be upheld.  This is due to the same  reasons as I explained in 
my provisional decision and set out above.
Ref: DRN29050729my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lex Autolease Ltd to put things 
right by doing the following:
Cancel the agreement
Treat the agreement as though the car was rejected on 1 April 2020
Collect the car at a time and date suitable  for Miss P without  charge
Reimburse 15% of all hire payments made towards the agreement
Remove the equivalent of 15% of the monthly repayments due under the agreement 
from any arrears
Refund the prorated proportion of the initial hire payment not used from 1 April 2020
Pay Miss P £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse  information from Miss Ps credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2905072