K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws unhappy that The Society of Lloyds declined  a claim on his Tyre and Alloy Wheel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr Ws car had a puncture while he was travelling home through a European country.  The 
Society of Lloyds declined his claim  on the basis that the policy  doesnt  cover punctures 
when travelling abroad. Mr Ws unhappy with this. He doesnt  deny the policy has a 
geographical condition and says he didnt  notice it when buying the policy.  He argues that 
the Insurance Act 2015 has an effect  on the policy conditions  making  the geographical 
condition invalid. He doesnt see why a puncture would  be covered under the policy in the 
UK but not in an European  country. He wants his claim for €265.25 for a new tyre dealt with.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt that this complaint should be upheld. He said Mr W says The Insurance 
Act 2015 says that where the location  of an accident  is irrelevant to the claim it shouldnt  be 
declined. And thats not an unreasonable argument here. Lloyds  hasnt provided  any solid 
evidence that the location of the puncture abroad affects the risk - that its more likely to 
happen abroad or wouldve cost more to replace there. He agrees  with Mr W that its unfair 
for The Society of Lloyds  to decline the claim. And it should now deal with it under the 
remaining terms of the policy.
The Society of Lloyds didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review.  It said references 
to breach of warranty are irrelevant in this case. Nothing was breached  using the car in 
another country. The policy  doesnt  prohibit this. Its simply that the scope of the cover  
doesnt extend to European  countries. It isnt a European or worldwide policy.  The scope of 
the policy was clear and this claim doesnt  fall within it. Furthermore it hasnt statistics 
establishing the frequency or cost of this occurring  in other  countries. And taking this 
approach overrides the policy and makes it worldwide cover when it wasnt designed  or sold 
as such.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 27 March  2019. In summary,  subject  to 
any further evidence  and submissions from the parties, I was minded to not uphold  the 
complaint. Taking  everything into account I felt on balance that the scope  of Mr Ws policy 
was clear and the geographical limit of cover was one that defined the risk as a whole. So 
the Insurance Act 2015 didnt require The Society  of Lloyds to deal with Mr Ws claim. The 
puncture occurred  outside the UK. As it didnt fall within  the policy cover,  The Society of 
Lloyds had acted  fairly  and within the policy terms and conditions  by declining Mr Ws claim.
Mr W doesnt agree. In summary he says he doesnt dispute the geographical restriction in 
the policy. But it wasnt brought to his attention when it was sold to him. He doesnt think  this 
policy aligns with others on the market.  The Society  of Lloyds hasnt been prejudiced  
because the puncture occurred in France.  It isnt treating him fairly. The Insurance  Act 2015 
has an influence here. The policy document isnt dated and he cannot be sure when it was 
drafted. He suspects it was issued before the Act was implemented and the policy wording  
hasnt been updated to allow for its provisions. He bought the policy  in good faith although 
for what he now thinks is an inflated price. It was the only policy  offered  by the dealer and he 
Ref: DRN27120932expected a puncture in France  would  be covered. Hed accept the policy being  cancelled 
from the very start and a refund of the entire premium  paid.
The Society of Lloyds says it wasnt involved in the sale of the policy. So if Mr W has a sales  
complaint he should  refer it to the dealership. It doesnt think a full refund  of the premium is 
warranted. This is a contingency policy bought  with the aim of not necessarily needing to 
make a claim. The cover has been  in place within the geographical constraints which Mr W 
was aware of and he could  have benefitted  from that cover if required.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint and in response  to my 
provisional decision. Ive read and considered them all. But my findings  are expressed in 
less detail. And they focus on what I think are the main issues.
Mr W has questioned when the policy wording was drafted  and whether it took account of 
the Insurance Act 2015. But I dont think that is of relevance here. What matters is the actual 
wording of the policy he took out and whether the provisions of the 2015 Act apply  to Mr Ws 
claim.
The policy Mr W took out, under the heading  of What is Covered, says If during the period 
of insurance damage  occurs within the geographical area to a tyre fitted to the vehicle we 
will cover the cost of repair or replacement  of the tyre by an approved  repairer. And it 
defines geographical area  as the UK, Isle of Man and Channel Islands.
Mr W doesnt deny this geographical limit is on the policy. Although hes said it wasnt  
brought to his attention  and he didnt see it when he bought the policy,  I think  it was clearly 
stated in the policy its terms and conditions which were adequately brought  to his attention. 
Mr W says the Insurance Act 2015 makes this geographical condition invalid and his claim 
should be dealt  with.
Section 11 of that Act applies to a term of a contract of insurance  if compliance with it would 
tend to reduce  the risk of loss of a particular  kind or at a particular location. And it says if a 
loss occurs and the term has not been complied  with, the insurer may not rely on the non 
compliance to exclude  its liability.  But this is provided the insured shows  that the non 
compliance with the term could not have increased the risk of the loss which actually 
occurred.
I can understand why Mr W thinks this will assist  him in this case  as he says The Society of 
Lloyds wasnt prejudiced by the puncture happening abroad.  But Im afraid  I dont agree. 
What he has failed  to take into account is that section 11 of the 2015  Act also specifically 
says it applies to a term other than a term defining the risk as a whole .
In this case I think the geographical limit of cover  in Mr Ws policy  is one that defines the risk 
as a whole. And as The Society of Lloyds  says references to breach of warranty  are 
irrelevant in this case. Nothing  was breached by Mr W using his car in another  country.  The 
policy doesnt prohibit this. Its simply that the scope of the cover doesnt extend to European 
countries. It isnt a European or worldwide  policy. 
Ref: DRN27120933I think the scope  of the policy was clear and Mr Ws claim doesnt fall within it. The policy 
cover was specifically limited to claims arising in the geographical area, not in Europe or 
Worldwide.
As result I dont think its appropriate  or relevant for The Society  of Lloyds to have to show  a 
claim arising in Europe is either more likely to arise or would cost more to deal with. 
I agree  with The Society of Lloyds that Mr Ws claim doesnt fall within  the cover provided by 
the policy as the puncture occurred  outside the UK, Isle of Man and Channel Islands. And I 
think The Society  of Lloyds has acted fairly and within the policy  terms and conditions  by 
declining Mr Ws claim.
Mr W has also raised a number  of matters relating to the sale of the policy.  But as this wasnt 
carried out by The Society of Lloyds I cannot  deal with those matters in this complaint. If he 
remains unhappy about them he will need  to contact dealership direct.
Mr W also says he would  accept the policy being cancelled from the very start and a refund 
of the full premium.  But as The Society of Lloyds  has said this is a contingency policy  which 
Mr W has had the benefit of for claims that might  have arisen within  the geographical area. 
Consequently I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require The Society of Lloyds  to now 
cancel it or provide a refund of all or any premium  as Mr W would like.
Taking everything into account  I dont think The Society of Lloyds has done anything  wrong  
or treated Mr W unfairly as he suggests.  And I cant fairly or reasonably require  it to now deal 
with his claim or make any refund  of premium as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN2712093