K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc incorrectly gave him a mortgage Decision in 
Principle (DIP). HSBC later refused his mortgage application, as a result of which Mr P had 
to source a mortgage  through a broker. He wants HSBC to reimburse  him for the £1,000 
reservation fee he had to pay to the developer to secure the property..
background
The events can be summarised briefly. Mr P, who lives abroad,  was buying a property for his 
parents to live in (in the UK). His parents found a property which they really liked and wanted  
but the developer required a DIP before  it would allow Mr P to reserve  the property.  Mr P 
approached HSBC to see if it would grant him a mortgage. HSBC confirmed that it would 
and gave him a DIP. Mr P paid the £1,000 reservation fee and secured  the property.
But unfortunately HSBC had made a mistake  because  Mr P didnt qualify for a residential 
mortgage from HSBC.  Thats because he already had a residential  mortgage on a property 
which was being  rented out, as well as a buy-to-let mortgage. This didnt  fit HSBCs  lending 
criteria. Consequently Mr Ps mortgage  application  was declined. HSBC  apologised and 
offered him £400 compensation.
Mr P refused  this, saying  that hed had to go to a broker  to find a mortgage, which had cost 
him broker fees. In addition, the mortgage sourced  was more expensive than those offered 
by HSBC. He wanted  to be compensated for the difference in interest hed be paying.
Mr P complained to us. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mr P asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. Mr P accepted  that the 
broker fees were his responsibility. But he said that if he hadnt had the assurance from 
HSBC, he wouldnt have  paid the £1,000 reservation  fee, so he thinks this should be repaid 
to him by the bank. After HSBC admitted its mistake, he says only chose to try to find 
another mortgage provider because his parents really wanted this particular property. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. These are my reasons.
HSBC has accepted it made an error  when it told Mr P he would be eligible for a second 
residential mortgage when he didnt meet HSBCs lending criteria. So I have to look at what 
the effects of the error were.
As a result of the error, Mr P paid the reservation fee for the property.  This was a 
requirement of the developer to secure the property. If the error  hadnt been made, Mr P 
would have lost the property which his parents  really  wanted. So the inadvertent  mistake  had 
a positive outcome,  in that Mr Ps parents  were,  in fact, able to get the property they wanted.
Given this, I cant see that Mr Ps suffered any financial loss as a result of HSBCs error. He 
was able to secure  the property his parents wanted,  albeit  as the result of a mistake.  He 
would always have  had to pay the reservation fee to secure this property, so I cant  see that 
he is out of pocket. I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to expect HSBC to reimburse  a 
fee that was a necessary  part of the purchase transaction.
Ref: DRN25216642Looking at Mr Ps existing mortgage situation (he is living abroad,  he has a buy-to-let, and a 
rented residential  property), Im satisfied  that he would have needed to engage a mortgage 
broker to source a mortgage in any event. 
HSBC accepted it had made a mistake, and Im satisfied the £400 compensation it offered 
Mr P is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, and proportionate to the mistake it 
made.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Im satisfied  the compensation 
already offered by HSBC UK Bank  Plc of £400  for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable. I simply leave  it to Mr P to decide  if he wants to accept it in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2521664