K820x#14Complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  him several interest  rate hedging products 
(IRHPs) and hasnt paid enough  compensation.
Background
Mr D brings his complaint  alongside another which is brought by a limited company owned 
by Mr D. Ill call the company S. Like Mr Ds complaint, Ss complaint is about  IRHP 
agreements. 
Formally, Mr D and S bring  two separate complaints,  but all the parties agree that the 
businesses are so closely  intertwined that it makes sense to consider these matters  as if 
they were a single  complaint. Mr D and S made   though their representative  a single 
initial complaint submission to the bank in which it was explained that Mr D and S should be 
regarded as operating jointly, under the direction  of Mr D. That approach has been  followed 
throughout the course of the complaint, including its consideration by this service. To make  
this decision easier  to read, Ill refer to the combined business of Mr D and S as the 
enterprise.
As a formality Im issuing  a separate decision for Ss complaint, with the same findings  as 
this decision and differing only in the specific sums offered in redress  by the bank.
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision dated 
18 November 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision.
In 2006 and 2007, the enterprise entered  five IRHP  agreements alongside loans it took out 
as part of the finance for its portfolio of rental properties. In mid-2008, the enterprise  repaid  a 
significant amount  of its borrowing to HSBC, having obtained finance from another  lender, 
which Ill call L. In 2010, all the IRHP  agreements were ended  and break costs were  
incurred. Later HSBC reviewed the sale of the IRHPs under its agreement  with the Financial 
Conduct Authority  and offered redress for overpayments and break costs. The enterprise 
accepted the offer and then made  its claim for consequential losses. The claim was for 
losses under  the headings of rental profits, capital value  of properties, penalties  and fees, 
debt management  costs, corporate  fees, future losses and professional fees.
In 2017 HSBC issued its final determination regarding  consequential losses.  The bank 
offered the enterprise a total of £4,953.38 plus interest to cover  bank  charges,  and additional 
overdraft interest payments totalling £5,583.16. Unhappy with the banks  offer, the enterprise 
referred its complaint  to us.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my view was that HSBC had made a fair 
and reasonable offer to settle the complaint.
The enterprise didnt  accept my findings.  Its representative and Mr D made the following 
points, in summary: 
Other than L and HSBC, no lender has taken detrimental action against the 
enterprise. Materially all the lending relationships that were  in place in 2009  are 
indeed in place  today. Its wrong  to imply that the complainant had a difficult financial 
position overall arising from relationships  with these  other lenders. 
Ref: DRN25847102Other lenders  took action  to protect  their interests after they became aware  of the 
enterprises financial exposure  caused  by the IRHPs. In particular, L took the LPA 
course of action mainly  because of the HSBC  position. 
The bank  claims that the enterprises loan account with L had a shortfall of £65,000 
by the end of March  2010. But L has confirmed the actual shortfall at that time was 
£45,815.15.
The enterprise doesnt recognise  the figure  of £47,000 arrears to creditors  other than 
HSBC and L in April 2009. Nor is it credible that such arrears would have existed 
without the creditors  taking action. Figures from the time show the actual  monthly 
profit/loss of the enterprise to have been  in the range between £2,000 profit  and 
£2,000 loss.
The HSBC relationship wasnt affected  by the enterprises debt to other  lenders.
The provisional decision has extended the duty to mitigate losses  in a way that is not 
valid. Its generally not required, nor expected, of any enterprise that it should hold 
spare capital for the eventuality that someone else (in this case  HSBC)  causes it an 
unexpected and significant  loss.
The IRHP charges  gave rise to the increased overdraft and that caused the loan-to-
security ratio to breach the lending covenant which in turn caused  HSBC to take 
detrimental action.  
Its wrong to regard the fall in house  prices as a relevant factor,  because  there was 
no material impact on rental income.
The banks writing  off of the capital loss is a separate matter  from the loss caused to 
the enterprise. The writing off occurred following the detrimental enforcement action. 
If the enforcement  action should  not have been  necessary,  then the writing off might 
not have been necessary.
The enterprise disagrees that the pricing of the HSBC loans would have  been  higher 
in the absence of the IRHPs.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been extensive correspondence  on this case. Id like to assure the enterprise  and 
the bank that Ive looked at all the arguments  and evidence with care. In this decision  Ill 
concentrate on the key arguments and evidence that are material  to my determination  of the 
complaint.
Loss of rental profits  and capital value resulting from L calling in LPA receivers
The enterprise argues that the reason L took action in 2010 was because  of its concern 
about the enterprises financial exposure  caused  by the IRHPs. I dont agree, and Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN25847103At Mr Ds request,  L has recently sent an email explaining why it took action in 2010. It says 
In summary,  due to the significant arrears which arose on your mortgage as contractual 
mortgage payments  were  not being  met, the Societys Credit  Committee  had no choice  other 
than to appoint  an LPA for that period of time. 
Its clear to me, from this explanation and from the account statements, that L brought in 
LPA receivers simply because the enterprise  wasnt meeting its repayments.  Im therefore  
not persuaded that L took action because of its concerns about  the enterprises position  with 
HSBC.
As I explained in my provisional findings,  I dont accept that the arrears with L were caused  
by the IRHPs. Thats because during  this period  the IRHP costs had been allowed to build 
up in an overdraft with HSBC, so there was no significant diversion of cashflow from the 
enterprises business to service the IRHPs.
I accept that the arrears  with L were about £46,000 in March  2010, not £65,000  as the bank 
has said. But this doesnt change my conclusion. The arrears  were substantial, and L says 
they caused it to appoint  LPA receivers.
For the reasons  given  above, I still dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude  that 
the calling  in of LPA receivers by L was caused by the IRHP payments.
Loss of rental profits  and capital value resulting from HSBC calling in LPA receivers
Im still of the view that the enterprise suffered substantial business  difficulties  that were  
unrelated to the costs of the IRHPs.  The enterprises representative says that in 2009, there 
was a small profit or small loss each  month,  and that theres no evidence  of any arrears  to 
lenders other than HSBC and L. But the enterprises own advisers approached the bank in 
March 2009 and said they would  be working towards setting up a programme to address  
the mortgage arrears  payments,  a repayment  strategy for all creditors, and a plan for [Mr 
D] to clear all personal debts over an agreed period of time. 
Moreover, Mr D has said that the enterprise had a huge overdraft with other  banks, and 
that one of them appointed receivers for two other properties. Mr D says that although other 
lenders appointed LPA receivers, he believes they were only slap on the wrist warnings 
from the banks, and in the end all debts and fees were repaid  and the properties werent 
sold. But in my view, irrespective of how these arrears were eventually resolved, these 
statements show that there were arrears  to other lenders, one of which was sufficiently 
concerned to appoint LPA receivers. And as been discussed above, the enterprise also fell 
into substantial arrears  on its repayments to L when  it wasnt  paying out anything  on its 
IRHPs. I think  the balance  of evidence indicates that the enterprise  was in difficulty  with its 
borrowing from other lenders, as well as with L.
I dont accept that the HSBC relationship wasnt affected by the enterprises debt to other 
lenders. As I said in my provisional findings,  under the restructured loan the total monthly  
HSBC payments were  reduced and should have been covered by the rents  on the secured 
properties, but the enterprise stopped making  repayments in mid-2011. The bank also noted 
at the time that rents from the secured properties  werent being  paid into HSBC. Im satisfied 
that business difficulties elsewhere meant  that the enterprise couldnt meet  the HSBC  
repayments.
Ref: DRN25847104When the accumulated  IRHP costs and break costs were incorporated  into the restructured 
loan in 2010, the loan-to-security ratio increased as a result.  But Im not persuaded that this 
caused the appointment of LPA receivers by HSBC. In mid-2011 the enterprise  wasnt 
meeting its loan repayments. Im satisfied that the difficulties the enterprise experienced in 
repaying the loan would have led to the default  and appointment  of receivers  even in the 
absence of the debt from the IRHPs.
The enterprises representative  suggests  that in my provisional findings I pointed to the lack 
of cash reserves as a failure, on the part of the enterprise, to mitigate its losses  from the 
IRHPs. But that wasnt my argument. I pointed to the lack of cash reserves  as part of the 
general picture of the enterprises business  and the difficulties it faced from late 2008  
onwards. I didnt suggest that the enterprise should have arranged  its other  affairs in such a 
way that it had funds  available  to meet its IRHP  losses. Rather, I said the rents  on the HSBC 
properties should have been  enough  to cover  the HSBC repayments,  and I thought it highly 
likely that the failure to meet them  was the result  of business problems elsewhere. In my 
view, the IRHP debt didnt cause the enterprise to default on its HSBC lending.
Similarly, in my provisional findings  I mentioned  the fall in the value of its property portfolio 
as a relevant factor in the general  financial  position of the enterprise. I havent  changed  my 
mind about  that.
For the reasons  given  above, I still dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude  that 
the sale of properties by LPA receivers called in by HSBC  was caused by the IRHP 
payments.
The write-off  of debt
Ive concluded  that the appointment of receivers by L and HSBC wasnt  caused by the 
IRHPs, so Im not asking the bank to pay any compensation in connection with this 
enforcement action. It follows that I dont need to consider how the banks  write-off  of debt 
would affect any such compensation.  
As regards  any losses from penalties, fees or interest in excess of the redress already 
offered by the bank, Im still of the view that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to make a 
consequential loss award unless the foreseeable consequential losses  that were HSBCs 
responsibility exceeded the amount of £1.9m  debt the bank  has already written off. Im 
satisfied that if there were  any losses in excess of the banks compensation offer,  they 
wouldnt be more than £1.9m. For this reason I dont require the bank to increase its offer of 
compensation for penalties, fees or interest.
The pricing of the HSBC  loans
As I explained in my provisional findings,  Ive reached my conclusions in this case without 
making any adjustment to the loan interest  rates that the enterprise  would have  paid in the 
absence of the IRHPs.  So even if the enterprise is right in its belief that the loans in 2006  
and 2007 would have been no more costly without the IRHPs, my determination of the 
complaint wouldnt  change. I dont  think the sales of the properties were caused by the 
burden of the IRHP payments and to reach that conclusion I havent relied on an assumption 
that the loan interest rates would have been  higher  without the IRHPs.
Ref: DRN25847105In summary
Having considered all the submissions made by both parties, I dont depart from my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that the bank  has made  a fair and reasonable offer of compensation to 
settle this complaint, and that HSBC  UK Bank Plc should  pay that compensation to Mr D. 
For Mr D, that compensation  should  be £3,661.38 plus interest  to cover bank charges, and 
additional overdraft  interest payments totalling  £2,968.76, as set out in the banks final 
consequential loss redress determination of 31 August 2017. The interest  element  of this 
redress should be updated, as appropriate, to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN25847106COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr D complains that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold him several interest rate hedging products (IRHPs) 
and hasnt paid enough  compensation.
Background
Mr D brings his complaint  alongside another which is brought by a limited company owned  by Mr D. 
Ill call the company S. Like Mr Ds complaint, Ss complaint is about  IRHP agreements. 
Formally, Mr D and S bring two separate complaints, but all the parties  agree  that the businesses  are 
so closely intertwined that it makes sense  to consider these  matters as if they were a single 
complaint. Mr D and S made  though their representative  a single initial complaint submission to 
the bank in which it was explained that Mr D and S should be regarded  as operating jointly, under the 
direction of Mr D. That approach has been followed throughout the course  of the complaint, including 
its consideration  by this service. To make this decision easier to read, Ill refer to the combined 
business of Mr D and S as the enterprise. 
As a formality I intend to issue a separate decision  for Ss complaint, with the same findings as this 
decision and differing only in the specific sums offered in redress  by the bank. 
In 2006 and 2007, the enterprise borrowed about £2.95m in six loans from HSBC as part of the 
finance for its portfolio  of rental properties. The enterprise also entered five IRHP agreements  with 
HSBC alongside the loans. These were all interest rate swaps  two in 2006 with a ten-year term and 
three in 2007 with a five-year  term  and their total notional value covered  all the borrowing in the six 
loans.
In mid-2008, the enterprise repaid a significant amount  of its borrowing to HSBC,  having obtained 
finance from another lender,  which Ill call L. At this time, no changes  were  made to the swap 
agreements.
In February 2010, all the swap agreements were ended. They still had a number of years to run and 
therefore break costs were incurred on all of them.  These costs were added to the enterprises debt to 
HSBC, which was restructured at the time.
Later HSBC reviewed the sale of the IRHPs under  its agreement  with the Financial Conduct Authority  
and in 2014 the bank  concluded the sales  hadnt met the required standards. The enterprise  accepted 
the banks offer to waive liability for the break costs and to refund all the swap overpayments  (net of 
those paid out by the bank) plus interest. The settlement also left the enterprise  with the right to make 
a further  claim for consequential losses.
The enterprise then made its claim  for consequential  losses in 2015.  HSBC  made a provisional 
determination of the claim and there followed a series of exchanges between the parties. In August 
2017, HSBC issued its final determination regarding consequential losses. The bank  offered the 
enterprise a total of £4,953.38 plus interest, to cover  bank  charges, and additional  overdraft  interest 
payments totalling £5,583.16. Unhappy  with the banks offer, the enterprise referred its complaint to 
us.
The enterprises claim is for consequential losses  that it says were  caused by having to make the 
swap payments, which began in the autumn of 2008. From early 2009 until the swaps were  
terminated in early  2010,  the payments were £12,000 per month. In particular, the enterprises 
representative says that having the swaps caused the following:
Ref: DRN25847107Loss of rental profits and capital value  resulting from L calling in LPA receivers in 2010 in 
respect of its lending  to the enterprise. The representative says that, without the burden of the 
swap payments, the enterprise would have had more financial  room for manoeuvre in 2009.
Loss of rental profits and capital value  resulting from HSBC calling in LPA receivers in 2012.  
Penalties and additional  fees incurred by the enterprise as a result of the financial strain.
Debt management  costs.
Corporate fees incurred by the circumstances.
Future losses resulting  from a loss of reputation and creditworthiness.
Professional fees for assistance in bringing the complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the bank should pay more than it had already offered for 
consequential losses. In summary, she gave the following reasons:
Early in 2009, L declined to release £210,000 to the enterprise. This was to have been the 
third tranche  of lending from the refinancing organised in 2008.  This was a blow to the 
enterprise, particularly as it operated  with no cash  reserves.  Consultants  employed  by the 
enterprise reported  that, at roughly the same time, the enterprise also had arrears of £47,000  
to creditors other than HSBC and L. So at this point, the enterprises shortfall  exceeded the 
£27,000 that had been spent on the IRHP. 
Moreover, market  conditions in 2009  were uncertain, house prices were  falling  and the 
lending appetite of all banks had diminished. Its not clear  why L brought  in LPA receivers, but 
there isnt enough  evidence to conclude that it was caused by the IRHP payments to HSBC. 
The investigator thought it more likely  that L made the decision because of a combination  of 
the enterprise being  overstretched, the change in economic climate  and breaches of lenders 
terms.
The representative says that by the time the swaps were cancelled, the payments had totalled 
£160,000. But the overdraft facility given by HSBC was £161,000. So if this facility  were  used 
as it was intended,  the net effect  of the payments on the enterprise would have been nil  
except for the interest  payments, for which the enterprise has already been compensated in 
the 8% interest on the basic  redress.
In the absence  of the IRHPs, the loans  taken by the enterprise wouldnt necessarily  have 
been priced  the same as the original loans taken alongside the swaps.  In particular, its likely 
that there would have  been a higher lending  margin. So it wouldnt be fair to say the 
enterprise would have had the benefit of all the additional  cash flow claimed.
HSBC appointed  LPA receivers two years after the swaps were cancelled, and therefore two 
years after the swap payments stopped. The investigator didnt  think the appointment of 
receivers was anything to do with the mis-sale of the swaps.
In any event, HSBC has (in addition  to paying the redress settlement from the review of the 
IRHPs) written off over £1.9m of the enterprises debt.  This was all the enterprises remaining  
debt to HSBC. To recommend any further redress, the investigator would have  to be satisfied 
that the consequential losses were greater than the sum written off  and she hadnt seen 
evidence to support  that.
The enterprise didnt  agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. The enterprises  representative and Mr 
D have made a number of points,  in summary:
Ref: DRN25847108The banks basic review  determination was that the customer should be put in the position  as 
if no swaps had been agreed, and there was no alternative product to be put in place. The 
consequential loss determination should likewise assume that there would be no replacement  
product.
The enterprises consequential losses exceed the 8% compensatory interest added  to the 
basic redress award. The losses need to be examined day-by-day and followed through in 
detail. When the effect of the depletion of cash has been established, then the losses can be 
determined.
If the 8% compensatory  interest already paid should be subtracted from a consequential  loss 
award, then that should happen as the last stage of the consequential  loss calculation.  Even if 
the 8% is regarded  as compensation for the overdraft interest,  it shouldnt be regarded as 
removing the effects of the overdraft interest at the time it was charged.  In other words, any 
problems triggered  by the overdraft  interest at the time should still be taken into account  when 
determining consequential losses.
The representative provided calculations on a spreadsheet showing and comparing the 
cumulative IRHP payments and the balance  of the enterprises HSBC business bank 
accounts. The figures  are evidence that the banking relationship hadnt been problematic 
before October 2008  (when the swap payments started) and deteriorated from that time 
onwards. They also show the steady  increase  in unauthorised overdrafts, causing the 
businesses to be treated as delinquent  customers. Without the IRHP payments, there would 
have been no unauthorised overdrafts  which were a total of £160,000.
The swap  payments  caused a cashflow shortage for the enterprise. The HSBC  authorised 
overdraft was put in place only after the 2010 restructure. 
The enterprise also had a huge overdraft with other banks.  A third bank  appointed receivers  
for two other  properties  as a result of the HSBC  fiasco.
There is an unsubstantiated allegation that the enterprise was in financial distress as a result 
of liabilities incurred  outside the HSBC  relationship. Its for the bank to provide evidence that 
the enterprises other liabilities  impacted its ability to pay the HSBC debt. In fact, Mr D has 
demonstrated analytically that the enterprise  would have been able to service  the HSBC debt 
in the absence of the IRHP.
The overdraft debt was built up from the IRHP charges and, as the enterprise  was unable  to 
repay that debt, the bank took recovery action, which caused  substantial  loss - there is clear  
cause and effect  demonstrated by the history of the matter.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Because the issue of the mis-sale has already been resolved between the two parties, the starting 
point of my decision is that the enterprise shouldnt have had the IRHPs. I wont be re-opening that 
issue.
Consequential losses
I need to look at whether the banks failures actually  caused these consequential  losses.  And if they 
did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need 
to ask whether the bank could reasonably  foresee that its failures would  result in losses like these. In 
other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  from the banks failings. Id also 
need to be satisfied that the customer  had taken reasonable steps to mitigate any losses.
Ref: DRN25847109In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely  to have 
happened if the enterprise  hadnt had the IRHPs. 
I agree with the enterprises  representative that the determination of the consequential  loss claim 
should assume that there would have been no replacement hedging product. There may have been a 
misunderstanding about the investigators arguments here. I note that the investigator talked about  
alternative products that would have been in place and using another  product,  so I can appreciate 
why the representative took this to mean an alternative IRHP.  But the investigators  argument was 
really about  the terms and costs  of the loans, which she thought would have  been different  in the 
absence of the IRHPs. She wasnt suggesting that there would have been any alternative IRHPs in 
place, or fixed  rate loans. I examine the substantive argument about  the loan costs below.
The write-off of debt
I agree with the investigator that, in this complaint, it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to make a 
consequential loss award unless the foreseeable consequential  losses that were  HSBCs 
responsibility exceeded the amount of debt the bank has already  written off. 
Mr D has argued  that the banks write-off was a refund of the IRHP charges  and therefore shouldnt 
be taken into account. But my understanding is that over £1.9m was written off in addition to the 
settlement of the basic IRHP redress.
Loss of rental profits and capital value  resulting from L calling  in LPA receivers 
L is not a party  to this complaint, and Ive been provided with no documents  issued by L regarding 
either its decisions  to withhold the third tranche  of its lending early  in 2009 or its decision  later to bring 
in LPA receivers.
Regarding the decision to withhold the third tranche of lending, the enterprises representative has 
said theres uncertainty over why L made this decision and it was possibly as a result of a change in 
the market or the lenders appetite, or there may have  been a technical  failure  by the enterprise to 
comply with all the lenders requirements,  warranties  or procedures. 
Both the bank  and the enterprises representative  have  said that the lending from L was at a fixed  
interest rate, and I note that base  rates fell substantially during the period over which the lending  was 
to be drawn  down, making the final tranche a different  lending proposition from the one originally 
intended. Im satisfied that there  are a number  of plausible reasons, unconnected with the IRHP 
payments, why L may have reconsidered its assessment of risk between mid-2008, when the 
refinance was arranged,  and February 2009, when  L declined to release the third tranche.
The enterprise and its representative have said the enterprises  problems were largely  the result of a 
cashflow shortage caused  by the IRHP payments. But I havent  seen convincing evidence that such a 
cashflow shortage was caused by the IRHP. 
The figures  Ive been given regarding the IRHP payments and the enterprises business  accounts  
show that at the time when  L decided  to withhold  the third tranche of lending,  the cumulative total of 
the IRHP payments was about £27,000,  and the enterprises business accounts had become 
overdrawn by about £23,000. As the IRHP payments largely became debt to the bank, the enterprise 
didnt need to divert its business cashflow to meet the payments.
As the IRHP payments continued through 2009, the unauthorised overdraft  grew correspondingly. 
The enterprises representative has said that by the end of January  2010 the overdraft total was 
£160,000 and without the IRHPs  there would have been no overdraft  at all. So by the time L took 
action which culminated in the LPA receivers  being called  in, the IRHP payments had not been met 
by any significant diversion of cashflow  from the enterprise. In effect, the IRHP payments had been 
largely financed by HSBC.
Ref: DRN258471010The enterprise had debts with other lenders, but Ive been shown very few details of the enterprises 
dealings with them. The bank says that its records show that in August 2008 the enterprise  had 
borrowing facilities  with other lenders (including L) of over £5m. I note that the enterprises financial 
consultants reported that in April 2009 there were arrears  of £47,000 to creditors other than HSBC  
and L. The bank has said the enterprises  loan account with L had a shortfall  of over £26,000 by the 
end of August  2009 and £65,000  by the end of March 2010. This indicates  that the enterprise was 
indeed suffering  cashflow problems but, for reasons given above,  I believe they came from 
somewhere other  than the IRHP payments.
I understand that the enterprises representative  has argued that the consequential loss claim should  
be determined in isolation, looking at the enterprises relationship with HSBC but without  considering 
what was happening in its dealings with other lenders. I dont agree. The consequential  loss claim is 
about the impact of the swap  payments  on the enterprises wider financial  situation and business  
activities, and it is therefore from the outset a matter  which involves  connections  between the 
enterprises HSBC transactions and those wider  events and circumstances.  In any event, Im required 
by rule to determine the complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case   so I cant ignore the wider circumstances relevant  to the enterprises 
financial affairs.
The representative has said that the effect of the IRHP payments was to reduce  the enterprises room  
for manoeuvre after L decided to withhold the £210,000 third tranche of lending, and affected  the 
enterprises credit prospects,  tightening the terms on which it could borrow  in order to trade out of the 
situation. But the available evidence suggests that the enterprises  problems resulted from its existing  
borrowing commitments plus changes in lending  appetites that had already happened,  as a result 
either of market changes or of the enterprises highly leveraged position, or of a combination of both. 
In my view,  it hasnt been shown  that, in the absence of the IRHP payments, the enterprise would 
have rescued the situation  by borrowing more elsewhere.
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to conclude  that the calling in 
of LPA receivers  by L was caused by the IRHP payments. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold 
HSBC responsible for any associated loss of rent or capital value.  
Loss of rental profits and capital value  resulting from HSBC calling in LPA receivers
The enterprises representative says that after the debts were consolidated and restructured in 
January 2010, the business  suffered a cashflow burden that was ultimately  caused by the IRHP 
payments which had been  made before the restructure. To summarise, the representative says that 
there was an increase in the loan payments, made up of (a) the increased interest payments on the 
larger debt, and (b) the capital repayments, whose timing was brought  forward from the original 
schedule, and which  the parties refer to as the soft amortisation.
The representative argues  that these increased costs  caused the enterprise  to suffer  business 
difficulties which led to HSBC calling  in LPA receivers.
I therefore  need  to consider  whether the increased  outgoings that Ive labelled (a) and (b) above were  
caused by the IRHPs, and then whether  the increase led to LPA receivers being  called in.
Looking first at (a), I agree  that the enterprises monthly loan payments did increase as a result of the 
accumulated IRHP costs (which had previously built up in the overdraft) and the break  costs being 
added to the enterprises debt. The bank argues that the debt restructuring in 2010 would  have 
happened even without the IRHP costs, because of the enterprises other  business difficulties. But at 
this point Im considering only the scale and components of the debt after the restructure, and the 
resulting interest  Im not considering the trigger to the restructure. Im satisfied that after the 
restructure, the HSBC  debt included the accumulated IRHP payments and the costs of breaking  the 
IRHPs, neither of which would have existed if there  had been no IRHPs.
Ref: DRN258471011As for (b), the bringing  forward of the capital  repayments, Im not persuaded  that the IRHPs caused 
this. The bank  has argued that discussions between the parties on this subject began as early  as 
March 2008, and at least one of the loans was due to commence capital repayments as early  as April 
2009, though these were postposed. But in any event, given  the substantial  changes  in market 
conditions between 2007 and 2010 and the impact  on the enterprises property values, I dont think I 
can conclude that the loans would have continued interest-only in 2010 in the absence of the IRHPs.  
Its my view, therefore, that after the loan restructure in 2010,  the enterprise did pay increased 
monthly loan outgoings as a result of increased interest payments on the larger debt, which wouldnt 
have happened if there had been no IRHPs. But I dont  think the IRHPs can be said to have caused 
the capital repayments  to be brought forward. 
The bank argues  that even  without the loan restructure, LPA receivers  would still have been brought  
in. It said the enterprises business problems arose as a result of other difficulties  in the management  
and financing  of its property portfolio. It made the following points, in summary:
The enterprise had built up no cash reserves and its position across its property portfolio was 
highly leveraged  with numerous other lenders. 
The significant increase  by the enterprise  of its portfolio and borrowing commitments 
unfortunately occurred shortly before the sharp decline  in the property market following the 
2008 crash.
By February 2009 the enterprise was unable to meet the payments  under the 2008 loan from 
L. At this time L declined to release the £210,000 third tranche of its lending  to the enterprise, 
which the enterprise described  as a significant problem.
At the end of April 2009, the enterprises own advisers informed the bank that there were 
£47,000 arrears to lenders other  than HSBC and L. 
By the end of August 2009, the shortfall on the L account was £26,865.
In August 2009, another lender appointed receivers to ensure the rent was properly collected 
on part of the portfolio.
In September 2009 the enterprises advisers  told the bank  that the L portfolio  was a disaster 
and the enterprise couldnt maintain the payments.
In November 2009  the enterprises advisers informed  HSBC that the L portfolio  wasnt 
covering its expenses and a property mortgaged  with another  bank would need to be sold as 
it would never  cover  its mortgage cost.
In March 2010, both HSBC and L were both told by the enterprises advisers  that rents had 
been directed  to L from other lenders properties.
By April 2010, the arrears on the L account  had risen  to £65,000. L then appointed LPA 
receivers.
The rental income from the HSBC properties should have  been more  than sufficient to cover 
the enterprises loan liabilities to HSBC.
There was a very significant reduction in the value of the HSBC secured  properties  following 
the revaluation  of the assets  in November 2010.
The bank identified the following factors as potentially  having an adverse effect  on the value 
of the properties: the prevailing  economic circumstances, and the fact that the properties were  
situated in poor locations,  suffered  from lack of refurbishment and at times lay empty.
Ref: DRN258471012In 2011 the bank noted continued diversion of rental income to debts  other than HSBCs.
In 2011 the enterprise defaulted on the interest and capital payments on its HSBC lending.
Having looked at the available evidence, Im satisfied that from late 2008 onwards the enterprise 
suffered substantial  business difficulties  that were unrelated to the costs of the IRHPs.  Its business  
model was highly geared and there were no cash reserves,  and the value of the properties  fell 
because of economic conditions. The enterprise had substantial borrowing  from lenders other than 
HSBC, and clearly  there were  problems supporting the debt (Mr D has said there was a huge  
overdraft with other lenders).  I havent been given all the details of that other borrowing,  but its 
common ground that two of the other lenders acted to deal with shortfalls. 
Before the 2010 restructure, the IRHP payments built up as an unauthorised overdraft  and therefore  
werent a cash drain on the enterprises activities. After  the 2010 restructure,  there were  no further 
IRHP payments and, as a result, the total monthly payments due to HSBC fell sharply.  From  early  
2010 until the time HSBC  called in LPA receivers, the rents from the properties ought to have been 
enough to cover the interest due on the (albeit increased)  HSBC  borrowing. I note that, over this 
period, the rents ought to have covered the capital repayments too (although, as I said above,  I dont 
consider the IRHPs to have caused the capital repayments anyway). 
As the total monthly HSBC payments fell and should have been covered by rents on the secured 
properties, I cant see how the restructured  HSBC lending  could have resulted in a cashflow  problem 
for the enterprise. The enterprise initially kept up the payments to HSBC but stopped in mid-2011. In 
the circumstances, I think its highly likely  that this was the result of business problems elsewhere in 
the enterprises activity.  In my view,  the IRHP debt didnt  cause the enterprise to default  on its HSBC 
lending.
Mr D has reminded me, via his representative,  that the starting  point for considering  a consequential 
loss claim should be the counterfactual scenario that could reasonably  have been understood to 
have developed. Ive referred  to this above as comparing what  actually happened with whats likely to 
have happened if the enterprise hadnt had the IRHPs. This is the stating point,  but it isnt necessarily  
the end of the matter, because there are other factors to consider in determining whether it would  be 
fair and reasonable to hold the bank  responsible  for any losses.  As Ive said above, those  would 
include remoteness and mitigation. But I also need to take into account all the other circumstances of 
the case, notably  the impact  of the enterprises financial arrangements elsewhere.
For the reasons  given  above, having taken all the evidence into account,  I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to conclude  that the sale of properties by LPA receivers called in by HSBC  was caused 
by the IRHP payments. So it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for any 
associated loss of rent or capital value.  
The pricing  of the loans from HSBC
The investigator thought that in the absence of the swaps, it was likely the lending taken  out by the 
enterprise would have been more expensive than the actual loans  taken  from HSBC  in 2006 and 
2007. She said that the cash  savings from not having the swaps would  thereby be reduced, so it 
wasnt simply a matter of removing the swap payments  from the picture  to determine  what  would  have 
happened without them.  
I agree that its likely  that the loan margin and other costs would have been different in the absence of 
the hedging, so I cant assume that the enterprises  outgoings would  have been exactly  as they were 
originally minus the swap payments. In other words, its likely that the enterprises overdraft, in the 
absence of the swaps,  wouldnt  have been reduced by as much  as indicated by the spreadsheet 
submitted by the enterprises representative. 
Ref: DRN258471013Mr D has said the IRHPs were portable  and therefore unconnected with the terms of the loans. I 
agree that the IRHPs  and loans were separate products, but they were sold at the same time and I 
believe the banks decision-making about its offers would have taken  all the circumstances into 
account. 
Similarly, the representatives  analysis  has assumed that if thered been no loan consolidation in 
2010, the bank would still have reduced the margin  on the property loans at the time.  I dont think  
thats a safe assumption. Without the consolidation,  the bank might have continued  with the margin  
unchanged.
Even though  I believe  its likely that the loans  themselves would have been more expensive in the 
absence of the IRHPs, my provisional determination  doesnt depend  on this point. Ive already said 
that I dont  think the sales of the properties were  caused by the burden of the swap payments and Ive 
reached that conclusion without making  any adjustment to the loan interest rates that the enterprise 
would have paid in the absence of the swaps. If I had made  such an adjustment, it would have further 
reduced the likelihood of finding the IRHPs responsible for the losses claimed in this complaint.
Penalties and additional fees incurred as a result of the financial strain
The enterprise has already  received 8% compensatory interest on the basic redress in respect of 
losses from being deprived  of the money, and the bank has offered a further £4,953.38 plus interest, 
to cover bank  charges, and additional interest payments totalling £5,583.16 (these are the sums  
offered to the enterprise  as a whole   Mr D and S together). The bank has also offered to update the 
interest on this award to the date of settlement.  In the light of the banks write-off of £1.9m of the 
enterprises debt, as discussed  above,  I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to require  the bank 
to offer more compensation for penalties, fees or interest.
Debt management costs
I understand the loss claimed under this heading is for advisory and consultancy  costs for dealing  with 
the enterprises financial  difficulties. I said above that I dont find that the IRHPs caused the cash  flow 
problems for the enterprise  and there were other problems with borrowing from other lenders. So I 
dont think the IRHPs caused the enterprise to pay the debt management costs.
Corporate fees incurred
I understand these fees were in relation  to the LPA receivers.  Ive already provisionally determined 
that the swap  payments didnt cause the involvement of LPA receivers, so I also conclude that they 
didnt cause any associated  costs.
Future losses  resulting from a loss of reputation and creditworthiness
I havent seen any details of future losses or evidence  to support this part of the claim. 
Professional fees for assistance in bringing the complaint
As regards  the complaint  to HSBC and to this service, the enterprise was of course  entitled to seek  
professional help, but the question I must answer  is whether  the bank should  be liable to pay the 
costs. 
In my view,  the enterprise  could have pursued its complaint  in the FCA review, for basic redress and 
consequential loss, without professional help. The review was set up with processes agreed by the 
regulator and it was overseen by an independent reviewer. The enterprise was entitled to refer the 
complaint here, free of charge, if it wasnt satisfied with the review outcome. 
The ombudsman offers  a free and informal service to resolve disputes. We dont usually require a 
bank to pay a customers costs for professional help in bringing their complaint  here. 
Ref: DRN258471014Im satisfied that the enterprise could have complained both to the bank and to this service without 
professional assistance. I therefore dont  think the banks actions caused it to pay for professional  
help with the complaint, so I cant fairly and reasonably hold the bank liable  to reimburse  the costs.
In summary
For the above  reasons,  Ive provisionally concluded  that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to require 
HSBC to pay more  for consequential losses than it has already offered.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to say that the bank has made  a fair and reasonable offer 
of compensation to settle this complaint,  and that HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay that compensation  
to Mr D. 
For Mr D, that compensation  would be £3,661.38 plus interest,  to cover  bank charges, and additional 
overdraft interest payments totalling £2,968.76, as set out in the banks final consequential loss 
redress determination  of 31 August 2017. The interest element of this redress should,  as appropriate, 
be updated to the date of settlement. 
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2584710