K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Miss A payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1990.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  27 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Miss A has said:
The policy was sold to me during a meeting to arrange my mortgage.  The meeting 
took place in my Bank of Scotland  branch . My mortgage and the PPI policy were 
arranged by the manager of the branch. My understanding at the time was that the 
policy was mandatory.  It was not explained to me clearly that this was an optional 
policy. I bought  the policy  because I didnt  think I had a choice. During the sale, at no 
point was I asked  whether  I had alternative  means to pay my mortgage if I wasnt 
working. (I had savings  and would have been given support from family). 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. And so, without  
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was sold without Miss A knowing she had a 
choice. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Ref: DRN25976052Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Miss A, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Miss As particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though  any recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Miss As situation  at the 
time. Its likely Miss A was eligible  for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Miss A received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have 
put off the time when she would need  to fall back on any savings or other means  she 
may have had for paying the mortgage  and other living costs. This all would have put 
Miss A in a more secure position, if shed eventually  lost income  due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been  told anything to suggest she couldnt 
afford the PPI when  she took it out. So I think the PPI would have been potentially 
useful, and so a recommendation would have been suitable.  It would then have  been  up 
to Miss A to decide if she wanted to take the PPI. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear  information about the costs 
would have affected whether Miss A took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Miss A would have been affected by any of these.  And shed be 
paying for it monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further  cost if her 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2597605