K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that he is no longer able to pay into the retirement investment account that 
he took out with Santander UK plc in 1990.  
He also complains that when he contacted Santander to discuss  his retirement  account  he 
was given incorrect information. And Santander  did not respond to his complaint until he 
referred it to this service.
Mr M is represented  in this matter by a third party.
background 
In 1990, Mr M opened a Retirement Investment Account with Santander.  The account was a 
deposit based personal pension plan.
At the time,  Mr M was 20 years  old. He earned £9,000  per year and had selected a 
retirement age of 55. The application form confirmed that Mr M wanted to contract  out of the 
State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS). The SERPS contributions were paid into 
this plan. 
In February 2018  Santander wrote to Mr M. It said that, following a change in pension 
regulations, it had decided not to accept any further payments into its retirement  investment 
accounts. 
Mr Ms representative contacted Santander  on his behalf. It appears that she was incorrectly  
told that Mr Ms plan was a savings  account,  not a deposit based pension  plan.  
A complaint was raised  with Santander  in June 2018. Santander failed to respond to the 
complaint so Mr Ms representative  bought  the complaint to this service. 
After this service contacted Santander  it responded to Mr Ms complaint. It noted  Mr M 
hadnt received  advice  on the retirement investment  account when  he took it out. It also 
explained that the plan was a deposit based  pension savings account. 
It said that, based on the information recorded  about  Mr M when he took out the plan in 
1990, it felt that the account  had been  appropriate  for his circumstances.
However, it accepted  that it had failed to respond  to Mr Ms complaint. It offered to pay Mr M 
£150 for the trouble and upset its poor service had caused.
Our adjudicator said he felt Santanders offer was fair. He said there wasnt anything  to 
suggest that the plan, or the decision to contract  out of SERPS  was unsuitable, based on 
Mr Ms circumstances  at the time.
He noted Santander had said it was no longer  accepting contributions into retirement 
investment accounts.  But it had also said Mr M could transfer his pension  pot to another 
provider, or leave it with Santander until his retirement. Our adjudicator said he couldnt 
require Santander  to continue to accept  payments  into the plan.
But he said he did agree  that Mr M had suffered  trouble and upset as a result  of the incorrect 
information Santander had given when  it said the account was not a pension savings plan. It 
Ref: DRN28151192also failed to respond to Mr Ms complaint until he referred the matter  to this service.  Having 
considered these issues our adjudicator said he felt that the offer Santander had made to 
pay Mr M £150 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr Ms representative did not accept our adjudicators view.  She said that she didnt think 
Mr M was being treated  fairly, as he couldnt  make any further contributions to this pension  
plan. She also said she didnt think the offer of £150  was adequate for the trouble and upset 
this matter had caused.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I am sympathetic to Mr Ms position,  I think  Santanders offer is 
fair. I dont think it needs to do any more to resolve  this complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander is legitimately  entitled to stop offering products to its customers. It has made  a 
commercial decision to stop accepting payments into retirement investment accounts.  In 
therefore cant order it to allow  Mr M to continue to make payments into this account.
I note that it has told Mr M that if he wishes to, he can transfer the funds in his account  to 
another pension  provider  without incurring a penalty. Or, Mr M can leave the account with 
Santander, but he wont be able to continue  to make payments into the account. I would 
encourage Mr M to consider the options open to him and, if he thinks  it would  be helpful, to 
get advice on the best course  of action.
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping for, but I cant order Santander to 
accept payments into Mr Ms retirement  investment account.
Mr Ms representative has also said that she feels the £150  Santander  has offered to pay is 
too low. Santander offered to pay £150 for its failure to respond  to Mr Ms complaint and for 
the confusion  it caused when it said the account wasnt  a pension savings account. Having 
carefully considered  this aspect of Mr Ms complaint, I think Santanders offer is fair and 
reasonable and I dont  think  it needs  to pay more. 
my final decision
My decision  is that the offer Santander  UK plc has made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr M to decide if he now wishes  to 
accept Santanders  offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Suzannah Stuart 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2815119