K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr H bought the policy in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for the 
mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident and sickness   subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. It offered  to repay  £180 a month towards Mr Hs mortgage  balance in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost £6.93 a month, after an initial six month  free period. 
At the time,  Mr H was self-employed as a painter  and decorator. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his mortgage should  he 
be unable to work. Mr H has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 1998. 
Mr Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Hs representative says:
 
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr H and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN20517652my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Hs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN20517653Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Hs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr H sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr H and B&B, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr H know  he had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Looking at Mr Hs mortgage  application  form, there was a separate section for PPI. This 
states:- Do you wish to take advantage  of the security and reassurance  offered by the 
Societys Payment Protection cover.(Yes  or No)? In response  to this question, YES has 
been written in the adjacent box. Mr H has then ticked to choose Accident and Sickness 
cover only,  as opposed to Accident, Sickness and Unemployment  cover.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr H knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN20517654did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  Mr H disagrees.    Looking at what  
happened when  B&B sold Mr H the PPI, Im not persuaded that the information B&B gave 
Mr H could reasonably  be considered  to amount to advice. I have not seen  anything  which  
persuades me that B&B recommended he take out the policy,  rather  it alerted Mr H to the 
fact that he could take out the policy.
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr H. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr H was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr H was unable  
to work through accident or sickness) and of the approximate costs.  Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr H would have taken out the policy without  any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr H agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Hs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN20517655think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr H has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr H? To what extent  did Mr H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr H. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr H would have still 
taken out the policy,  had B&B done  things properly. 
Mr H says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr H had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr H chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr H thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr H knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told him the exact premium at the point he applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, Mr H was told the cost in the mortgage offer before the policy  
started and he paid for the policy until the mortgage ended, so if the costs were significantly 
at odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might  have  raised that with 
B&B at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr H would  have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  B&B made clear exactly  what Mr H would  get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Hs expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) were significantly  different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr H thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to illness or injury that Mr H was aware  of or 
sought treatment  for during the two years before the policy  commenced; 
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be totally 
unable to do his usual gainful employment or business or any other gainful 
employment or business for which he was fitted by knowledge and training.
Ref: DRN20517656The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr H pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr H from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mr H was self-employed, which might have made  it 
more difficult for him to claim for unemployment  under the policy.  However, he did not buy 
unemployment cover, only accident and sickness cover. And I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest he would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions.  So I still think he 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr H would have  
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr H had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any other gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if he was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
B&B may not have  told Mr H that any claim he made  would be limited  to a 12-month  period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for, but he didnt have 
any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr H would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr H be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring  his home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that Mr H would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN20517657Mr Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr H would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr H 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr H in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude B&B should pay Mr H compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr H thinks B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find B&B negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr H and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that B&B had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN20517658circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2051765