K822xcomplaint
Mr Hs complaint features  the holding of his investments on Cofunds  Limiteds  platform  and 
the use of a third party intermediary firm in order to access the platform. He says, in the 
main, that the third party  firm increased  its charges in July 2018  without prior notice to and 
consent from him; that Cofunds permitted deduction of the charges (including  the increase 
element) without establishing his consent; that Cofunds did not stop the deduction from 
October 2018 when  he made his disapproval clear to it; and that Cofunds  did not address his 
enquiries about charges (and the redirection of an investment).
background 
Mr Hs complaint about the third party firm has been separately addressed. This decision 
addresses, only, his complaint about  Cofunds.
In summary,  Cofunds position is as follows:
It acknowledges that it should have sent the illustration of its charges   which  applied  
in the absence of intermediary platform  access  to Mr H as he required. 
[Mr H says he needed this in order to properly consider terminating the intermediary 
access arrangement given his disapproval of the third party firms increase in its 
Ongoing Adviser Charge (OAC); and then substituting it with a direct access  
arrangement; hence his attempt to compare costs of both arrangements.]
In this respect, it offers Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset caused to him.
The third party firms charges, and its increase to the OAC, was a matter of 
agreement directly  between the third party  firm and Mr H. Terms for the platform   
which were binding  on Mr H  explained  this. It understands that the third party  firm 
wrote to Mr H in March 2018  about  the OAC increase. Cofunds wrote to him in June 
2018 and gave him notice of the same,  if he disagreed with the OAC it was a matter 
for him to resolve with the third party firm.
In September  2018, and in response  to Mr Hs complaint, it conveyed the above 
position to him and it shared its response with the third party firm.
Mr H says he did not receive the third party firms letter of March 2018; he received Cofunds 
notice of June  2018 and complained to both firms  soon thereafter; his letter to Cofunds in 
October 2018 reaffirmed his disapproval of the OAC  increase; Cofunds had a regulatory duty 
to ensure he consented to the increase before permitting the deductions  and, in this context, 
it ought not to have  allowed the deduction to continue; Cofunds should refund the increase 
element deducted  up to October and refund the full OAC deducted  from October.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and was satisfied  with Mr Hs entitlement 
to Cofunds £250 offer for the charges illustration issue. With regards to the matter of the 
OAC deduction, she agreed  with Cofunds  position,  noted that it had acted in line with the 
terms for the platform by making the deduction(s) and took the view that it was for Mr H to 
address the OAC directly  with the third party firm  based on the notices he received from 
both firms at the time, before the increase was due to come  into effect.
Ref: DRN20474632Mr H disagreed with this outcome and said the regulatory aspect he submitted had not been 
addressed. He highlighted his letter of October 2018 and said Cofunds complicit role in the 
deduction(s) despite  its awareness  from, at the latest, this letter  of his disapproval of the 
OAC increase was in breach of the regulators rules at COBS 6.1A and 6.1B. Mr Hs view is 
that these rules exist to protect clients from charges they disagree with, yet Cofunds allowed 
the OAC  deduction(s) despite knowing he disagreed  with the OAC increase. He also argues 
that any term that allowed Cofunds  to do this was an unfair term. The investigator was not 
persuaded to change  her view and the matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that the charges illustration issue appears to have  been  resolved by Cofunds 
offer. I uphold the complaint in this respect. Cofunds  should  have provided Mr H with the 
specific information on charges (for direct  access to its platform) he sought,  especially as 
evidence suggests  it was aware that Mr H was on enquiry in this respect because of the 
OAC increase he disagreed with. It would have been implicit  and it appears to have  been  
somewhat evident  to Cofunds  that he sought this information in order  to consider his 
options in response  to the OAC increase. Cofunds  should also have addressed the 
investment redirection  query.
For the trouble  and upset caused to Mr H in this respect, I am persuaded that £250 is fair 
compensation. 
I understand the key points Mr H has made  about the OAC deductions. COBS 6.1B 9 R 
requires a platform provider like Cofunds to  obtain and validate  instructions from a retail 
client in relation to an adviser charge  His argument is that the disapproval he expressed  
in June and, especially,  in October  2018  did the opposite  that is, he did not validate 
instructions to deduct the OAC, given the increase  that he disapproved of.
However, the relevant provision in the agreed  terms for the platform  must be considered.  
The provision was that Cofunds  will accept instructions  from [the intermediary firm] to set 
up or amend, including increasing ongoing adviser charge  [Cofunds] will send 
confirmation to [the client]  when an ongoing adviser charge is set up or amended.  [my 
emphasis]
The effect, in practice,  was that Mr Hs validated instructions about the OAC, including  future 
amendments of and increases to it, was given in his agreement  with the platform  terms. The 
above provision  was complemented  by terms that allowed  Mr H to instruct Cofunds if he no 
longer wanted  to be associated with an intermediary firm. Neither of Mr Hs June and 
October communications  appears  to have done this.
Cofunds does  not appear  to dispute  knowledge  that Mr H disapproved of the OAC increase. 
It is clear it was aware of that. However, it was entitled to rely on Mr H to terminate the third 
party firms appointment  if he wished to do so in response to the increase.  Cofunds was not 
part of Mr Hs contractual relationship with the third party firm. It was not supposed to 
assume the responsibility to stop the OAC deductions. Mr H retained that responsibility and 
the provisions in the terms  for the platform (about OACs) continued until he discharged that 
responsibility.
Ref: DRN20474633The above  does not present an imbalanced contractual scenario, to Mr Hs detriment, or an 
unfair contract term in such  a scenario. To the contrary, Mr H had the discretion and power  
to determine the OAC issue. It appears  that if he had terminated  the third party  arrangement 
following the notice  he received in June 2018 and instructed Cofunds accordingly the OAC 
would not have been incurred. 
Overall and on balance,  I am not persuaded to uphold this element of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint but only in relation to the charges 
illustration matter and I order Cofunds Limited  to pay him £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused to him in the matter. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 24 April 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2047463