K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained about Amtrust Europe  Limiteds handling of his car repair  insurance  
policy.
Reference to Amtrust  includes their agents.
background 
Mr Rs policy  with Amtrust  covers minor cosmetic damage to his car. As the policy  covers 
minor damage, its intended  that a mobile repairer can attend  the car and carry out repairs 
on site within  a few hours.  The policy says that if there is one bit of damage, such as a 
scratch, dent or scuff, it will be covered  provided  the damage  is no larger than 30cms  in 
diameter. If there are multiple  bits of damage, for example three separate  dents, it will be 
covered under the policy provided  the total end to end size of the furthermost  points of the 
combined damage area is no more than 30cms apart.
On 21 March 2018, Mr R made a claim for damage  to his car. He said there were multiple 
bits of damage caused to the rear right hand  side of his car that he suspected happened 
during one incident while his car was parked.  Amtrust sent Mr R an email the same day of 
the claim and outlined the key information  about  making a claim. They  also asked Mr R to 
send them photos of the damage so they could do an assessment to see if his claim was 
covered by the policy. They asked  him to take a photo with a measure tape or ruler held 
against the area of damage  so that they could decide if the size of the damage  was within 
the policy limits.
Mr R sent Amtrust a number of photos  as requested.  On the basis of the photos, Amtrust 
were satisfied that the size of the damage  was within  policy limits. Amtrust then instructed 
one of their authorised repairers who then made contact with Mr R to arrange  a meeting. 
They agreed the repairer would attend  Mr Rs car on 3 May 2018  to repair  the damage.  But 
when the repairer  assessed the damage, he decided the two furthest points of damage were  
over 30cms  apart. So he didnt repair it.
I understand that Mr Rs expectation was that the repairer would report  back to Amtrust and 
a report would be provided to Mr R about the size of the damage and what  Amtrust were 
going to do about the claim. But that didnt happen.  Mr R complained because his car wasnt  
repaired. He also complained about the poor service, in particular the lack of communication  
from Amtrust as Mr R had to keep chasing  them for updates. Amtrust upheld  Mr Rs 
complaint in part accepting their service  was poor. But they said the decision to reject the 
claim because  the damage  was over 30cms was correct.
As Mr R wasnt happy with Amtrusts decision,  he brought  his complaint to our service. One 
of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that Admiral acted fairly. But as Mr R 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 29 May 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. I have  to decide  if Amtrust  have treated Mr S in a fair 
and reasonable way, and in line with the policy.
the claim for damage
Ref: DRN23415282When Mr R made the claim,  he told Amtrust that there were  three  bits of damage 
resulting from the one incident. Amtrust told him to take a photo  of the damage with a 
measure tape showing the distance between  the two furthest points of damage.
Looking at the photos of damage,  as I understand it, the three  bits of damage are 
situated on top of each  other, but with some spacing between  them.  They follow  a 
diagonal line to the right. When Mr R took the photo he put the start of the measure 
tape on the first bit of damage at the bottom  and held the tape up in a straight vertical 
line. That meant that the second bit of damage  was perhaps 7-9cms to the right of 
the measure tape. The third bit of damage  was several more  centimetres further  to 
the right and higher up than the second  bit of damage. On the photo the second bit of 
damage aligns to just under 29cms on the measure tape. Amtrust said that photo 
doesnt accurately  reflect  the distance between the two furthest points of damage.  
They said the measure  tape shouldnt have been held in a vertical line, but it should  
have followed the actual route  of the damage, which was diagonal. That way the 
distance increases.  They  also said the photo wrongly aligned the top of the measure 
tape with the second bit of damage, whereas the third bit of damage  was further 
above and further out to the right of the second  bit of damage.  In other words, the 
third bit of damage was the furthest away from the first.
Amtrust have produced  a photo  of the car that shows all the bits of damage.  And 
starting with the first bit of damage at the bottom, three lines have been drawn. The 
first line goes up vertically and follows Mr Rs measure tape. That line would be 
approximately 29cms. The second line starts at the first bit of damage at the bottom 
and goes up diagonally to the second  bit of damage. And the third line starts at the 
first bit of damage at the bottom and goes up diagonally to the third bit of damage. 
The second  line is visibly longer than the first and the third line is visibly  longer than 
the second. Amtrust  have said that the third line shows the furthermost points of the 
combined damage area and that it is over 30cms. Looking at the photos I think 
Amtrust are correct,  therefore I feel their decision was reasonable. I understand from 
Amtrust that the authorised  repairer didnt take any photos nor did he write a report. 
But Amtrust have confirmed that the repairer  reported that the repair wasnt carried  
out because the damage  was out of template, which means the size of the damage 
fell outside of what was acceptable  under  the policy. Im therefore not intending to 
uphold this part of the complaint.
poor service
I can see that the claim was made by Mr R on 21 March 2018. And the final letter 
Amtrust sent Mr R accepting their service  was poor was on 21 August 2018, five 
months later. There was correspondence in between from which I can see Mr R was 
asking for updates and an explanation  as to what was happening with his claim. I 
think the delay  and the lack of explanation from Amtrust was unreasonable  and they 
have accepted their service was poor.  Im aware that the poor service was a source 
of some distress and inconvenience to Mr R. So to address that I intend to require  
Amtrust to pay Mr R £200 compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. But neither  Amtrust nor Mr R 
responded to my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN23415283my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Amtrust Europe 
Limited to pay Mr R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced 
in relation to the poor service.  This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that 
Mr R has accepted my final decision.  If they pay later than this they must also pay interest 
on that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2341528