K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  an advisory  dealing service provided by Barclays Bank UK Plc
("Barclays").
background 
In December 1997, Mr and Mrs H took out an advisory service  desk portfolio ("ASD") with
Barclays. Mr and Mrs H completed a risk questionnaire at the time of application.
Recommendations were  then provided  from a team of advisers,  tailored to the self-
assessment of their attitude to risk.
Mr and Mrs H selected their risk strategy as medium risk, where risk was defined as "the
measure of the potential movement of any portfolio or share against the market  itself Share
prices can fail as well as rise and you may get back less than you invested." They selected
their investment strategy  as capital growth, defined as, "there  is no significant requirement
for income:  your main objective is growth  in the value  of your investments."
Mr and Mrs H traded regularly until 2004 and eventually closed the service in 2006.
Mr and Mrs H say they were inexperienced  and were exposed to too much  risk. They  made
significant losses, relying on the advice  provided by Barclays,  for which  they would like
compensation.
Barclays undertook a review of this product in 2018.  They maintain that it was suitable for
Mr and Mrs H. They've said:
1. Mr and Mrs H selected their attitude  to risk;
2. There was no requirement or obligation for the ASD team to offer proactive
advice;
3. Recommendations  were based on Mr and Mrs H's objective and risk profile
(which they had set);
4. There was no obligation on Barclays to monitor the performance of the portfolio
or recommend exit
5. Mr and Mrs H chose to diversify seeking  to invest some  of the large  cash  holding
they had following the sale of a property;
6. Mrs H referred to "betting" on shares in a call to the reviewing case  handler,
which suggested Mr and Mrs H understood the concept of exposure to risk;
7. Mr and Mrs H later opened an execution only service with another  provider in
February 2000, which showed they were confident to trade independently;
8. Mr and Mrs H kept ledgers of each trade;
9. Mr and Mrs H accepted  the risks trading  with shares in larger known companies;
10. Ultimately, it was for Mr and Mrs H to decide  whether  to proceed with the ideas
given by Barclays and it was for them  to decide  how much to trade.
Barclays have acknowledged  that raising the review of this product caused Mr and Mrs H
distress and they've  offered £650  to compensate for this.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  Initially he upheld it, he didn't think there was
enough clear information  for Mr and Mrs H to assess their attitude to risk and concluded that
Barclays hadn't done enough to ensure the product  was suitable for them. He thought they
would have invested differently and made an award on this basis.  When Barclays  provided
further information, our investigator reconsidered  things and decided  not to uphold the
Ref: DRN27105002complaint. He thought Barclays hadn't advised  Mr and Mrs H to take out the product. As
Mr and Mrs H elected to take out a stock-broking portfolio without advice, self-selected a risk
profile and objectives without  advice  and then actively engaged with the adviser making
investment decisions  on the portfolio, he inferred that they understood what  they were doing
both when selecting the ASD at the outset and using the platform to approve and conduct
trades.
Mr and Mrs H didn't  agree with the last view.  They maintained that they were inexperienced 
at the time they took out the product  and relied upon the advice given by the adviser, with
whom they had a good relationship. Mr and Mrs H accepted they opened  an execution only
trading account  with another provider in February 2000 but said they did so in a desperate
attempt to recoup  some  of their losses. They questioned why they were able to regularly 
place such large  trades, of £20,000 to £50,000 at a time.
I drafted  a provisional  decision  in October 2019, in which I did not uphold  the complaint, for 
the following  reasons:  
I didn't underestimate  Mr and Mrs H's upset about  the extent of their losses, but I was 
mindful that it was not fair and reasonable to assess the complaint with the benefit  of 
hindsight. So, when  making my decision I considered what  I thought  was more likely than 
not to have happened at the time decisions were made. It was now almost 22 years  since  
the product was taken out and whilst  Barclays consented to us considering  the complaint, I 
took onto account that memories had likely faded  with the passage  of time.
ASD
I considered the service  provided by Barclays. I was satisfied that Mr and Mrs H chose to
take out the service and I thought they self-selected their attitude  to risk. Barclays conceded 
that out of the 455 buy and sell trades made  throughout the time the account was
open, only two were noted  as advised  and two as execution only.  No note was made  against
the remaining  trades, which would usually mean the trades were advised.  So, it was for the
Barclays to ensure that the recommendations given to Mr and Mrs H were suitable. I thought
there were shortcomings by Barclays as there  wasn't enough clear information for
Mr and Mrs H to make an informed risk assessment.
risk assessment
Barclays conceded that the risk profile  was the only place where the risk categories were
described. The risk profile provided  no explanation as to the meaning of "medium  risk".
Other than a generic reference to share prices rising and falling, the risk of loss from
investing in a medium risk portfolio was not explained. No guidance was given as to what
factors should be considered. Investors  only had the option of low, medium  and high risk,
none of which were defined. I was not satisfied that Barclays  did enough to enable
Mr and Mrs H to fairly identify their risk profile.  This was particularly relevant given Barclays
said they would not have  expected inexperienced  investors to use the service.
It was not disputed that Mr and Mrs H had a large  cash pot at the time, but this was due to 
the sale of a property.  They described  themselves as "very green" and naive as at 1997, not
having much  investment  experience, save for selling some demutualised shares. They
believed they were cautious investors.  I hadnt  seen anything to show that Mr and Mrs H's
investment experience was anything other than relatively limited at this time and Mrs H had
given a consistent account about this.
Ref: DRN27105003Despite there being scant information about the risk categories in 1997,  I considered
whether the selection made  was, nevertheless,  appropriate for Mr and Mrs H's
circumstances. Mrs H said that they had a cash pot to invest  at this time and their
personal finances were  stable, with their mortgage  having been paid off. Whilst I didn't  think
it was fair to conflate  the level of funds  Mr and Mrs H had to invest  in 1997 with their attitude 
to risk, it was an indicator  of their capacity  for loss which fed into how much risk they were
willing to take.  Their focus was capital gain.
I considered that when  Mr and Mrs H were  asked to amend their risk profile in
January 2002,  they again self-selected "medium risk", which  suggested they considered  they
had not been exposed  to too much  risk up to this point. Mr and Mrs H did not change their
risk profile.
This was an important indicator because the 2002  form gave more  in terms of defining  the
respective risks, with medium as, I/We want balanced investment mix. I am/we are
comfortable with some fluctuation and reasonable potential growth," and low risk, "l/We may
try to minimise losses and fluctuations  as much as possible. I am/we are not comfortable
with significant  market fluctuations in my/our portfolio."
From the outset Mr and Mrs H began to place  large,  regular trades, with contract values  of
between £20,000  to £50,000.  I didn't think the pattern of trading was consistent with a low
attitude to risk.
the recommendations
I explained that we provide an informal dispute  resolution service, so when looking at the 
trades made, I didnt  undertake a forensic view of each one, rather  I made  an overall 
assessment as to whether the type of recommendations  was comparable  overall with their 
attitude to risk. Most  of the trades  were  on larger  known and FTSE 100 companies.  Mr and 
Mrs H said they were  encouraged to invest in some high-risk  investments  too and they did 
so relying upon  what the adviser  told them, as they had a good relationship. Barclays said 
that Mr and Mrs H, "were  not only able to appreciate  and understand a high level of risk but 
were happy  to accept  it." And even if some  higher  risk trades  were  made,  it didn't follow that 
this would have  been inappropriate in a medium risk portfolio.
Mrs H said their financial circumstances were shared with the adviser, they selected  the size
of each trade and she kept a detailed ledger of the trades. So, I thought it was evident  that 
Mrs H was very involved in the trading process. Considering the contract value of the trades 
and the regularity with which trades were placed  (up to 4 times some days across 1998-
2000), I thought  this was more consistent with Mr and Mrs H having an appetite for some 
risk and having an understanding the risks they were taking.
Further, I couldn't ignore the fact that in February 2000, Mr and Mrs H opened an execution
only account with another  provider. Mrs H said this account was opened  as the fees were
lower and it gave an opportunity for them to recoup the losses they had made. Mrs H said
she placed the trades on that account  also using the information provided by Barclays. I
thought this was a further indication that Mr and Mrs H felt confident to trade independently 
which was consistent  with their attitude to risk being  higher than cautious.
I'd seen that good returns were made for a significant period. I appreciated it was then
greatly disappointing when Mr and Mrs H went on to sustain large losses,  but I thought they
had chosen to take some risk and the losses were an unfortunate and unforeseeable
Ref: DRN27105004consequence of a significant  market  downturn.
So overall, I was satisfied that it was more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H did understand 
the risks at the time and were aware of what they were doing. I couldn't fairly  say that the
recommendations given by Barclays  were  unsuitable for them.
trouble and upset
It was clear from the timeline of events that Barclays contacted  Mr and Mrs H some  years 
after they had closed their account  in order to undertake an independent review. This 
process caused Mr and Mrs H some distress and upset.  Barclays offered Mr and Mrs H 
£650 in compensation for this. Given the circumstances surrounding this complaint,  I thought  
that was fair and reasonable compensation, it was now a matter  for Mr and Mrs H to decide  
whether to accept  that offer.
I was sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but provisionally, I decided not to ask Barclays to do 
anything more
The parties have  now responded  to my provisional decision. Barclays agree and have 
nothing further  to add. Mr and Mrs H disagree with my findings. They maintain that they were  
inexperienced and refer to a newspaper article from 2005 about  another complaint. They 
now say that they would have selected  medium-risk in 1997 and 2002, following advice from 
a broker but they did not understand what this meant. 
Ive taken these  further  comments  into account and Ive reviewed everything in order  to 
reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read the article  to which Mr and Mrs H have referred, which concerns a complaint 
from a different consumer  about  a service provided  by Barclays. The complaint was not 
upheld and there are few details about the merits. I have placed  very limited weight on the 
article because we consider each case on its own facts. Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H 
that I have  thought carefully about the facts surrounding their particular complaint. 
 
Mr and Mrs H now say they were  advised  to select their attitude to risk as medium, but 
theres nothing to show that they were advised to do this at the time.  Given the nature of the 
product and my findings above,  it remains my view that it is more  likely than not that they 
self-selected the level of risk and selected it again in 2002,  at which time a more  detailed 
definition was provided. I dont think theyd have  selected the same  level of risk, if they felt it 
was too high for them.
Mr and Mrs H appear  to have misunderstood  part of my provisional decision as to the 
number of advised trades. In my provisional  decision  I stated that Barclays only had two 
trades recorded as advised and two as execution only, the remaining trades were therefore 
likely to have been advised. Whilst recommendations were given, Mr and Mrs H have 
Ref: DRN27105005conceded that they selected the value of each trade, so it remains  my view that they were  
very much involved in the trading process  and were  aware of what they were doing.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but for the reason Ive given, Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint. Its now a matter for Mr and Mrs H to 
decide whether  to accept the £650  offer made  by Barclays.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2710500