K820x#14complaint
Mr P has brought the complaint on behalf,  as a director,  of a property management 
company, who Ill refer to as M. 
Mr P is unhappy that Aldermore Bank  Plc didnt add him as a user on Ms business  account. 
background
In November 2017, Mr P received copies of letters from Aldermore which had been sent to 
former directors  of M who had passed  away. In response to this, Mr P contacted Aldermore 
to amend the directors on the business savings account.  Aldermore responded asking for 
tax residency information from all directors.
Following this request,  Aldermore sent another email to M asking for the directors  
addresses and dates of birth. Aldermore explained  that failure to provide  this information 
could lead to the closure  of the account. 
Mr P raised a complaint as he was unhappy with the new information Aldermore had asked 
for. In their final response  of December 2017, Aldermore acknowledged that whilst they 
received information  about the tax residency  status  of some of the directors,  further 
information was still required  to add additional users  to the account  specifically the 
directors registered addresses and dates of births. To apologise for the inconvenience 
caused, Aldermore  made  a payment  of £25 in to Ms nominated bank account. 
Mr P sent an email to Aldermore in response  to their final response  with further information 
in relation to the users  of the account. But says he didnt  hear back from Aldermore after 
this. 
In July 2018, Mr P called Aldermore to request statements on the account,  but was told that 
he was not registered as a user on the business  account as he failed to provide the 
information they requested from him. Mr P was unhappy with this and asked for the matter  to 
be escalated.  
As the matter remained unresolved, Mr P raised  a further complaint with Aldermore in 
October 2018. Mr P says he believed he was added as a user on the account and was 
unhappy that access to the account  had still not been granted.
Aldermore issued a further final response  in November 2018. In this they explained  that as 
they still hadnt received the necessary verification information from Mr P, he still wasnt  
added as a user to the account. They also said they enclosed  a guide which explained what 
were acceptable  documents and how these could be provided  to Aldermore.
Our case handler looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
He concluded  that there  was a miscommunication  from Mr P and that because Aldermore 
still hadnt received  all of the necessary information to add Mr P to the business account  that 
they hadnt done anything  wrong  in not adding him. 
Mr P disagreed with the case handler.  He remains of the opinion  that he had given 
Aldermore all of the information they required but that Aldermore were at fault for failing to 
add him as a user to the account. Mr P also questioned why Aldermore didnt contact the 
Ms directors  for the additional information  when  it became clear  they didnt have all the 
Ref: DRN23953272information they required to add them to the account. So the complaint  has been passed  to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
was the information Aldermore asked  for clear? And was it reasonable for Aldermore to ask 
for this information?
In November 2017, Mr P told Aldermore  that new directors  needed  to be added  to Ms 
business account. He explained  hed send the necessary information  to Aldermore by the 
end of December  2017. Aldermore wrote  to M twice  in November  2017  requesting  
information on all directors tax residency. They told Mr P that if they didnt receive this 
information by December 2017 that theyd close the account. 
Aldermore wrote to Mr P mid December 2017 to let him know  they required dates of birth 
and addresses for the directors. They again  mentioned if they didnt receive  this information 
by the end of that month, the account would  be closed. Mr P has sent us a copy of the email  
he sent to Aldermore in response to their request. I can see he tells Aldermore that 
information on the dates of birth and full names of the directors can be found on 
Companies House.  In this same  response, Mr P provides his own full address.
Aldermore then confirmed  they had added  Mr Ps address to their notes but that they still 
require information  from the other directors. Aldermore also explained  to Mr P the reason for 
the additional verification  information was so that they could carry out routine checks due to 
their know your customer policy. Im satisfied they made it clear  to Mr P that information 
was still outstanding and I dont think their reason for asking for this information was 
unreasonable.
Ive looked at Aldermores December 2017 final response. In this they confirmed  to Mr P that 
they still required all the directors dates of birth. They said the information provided for dates 
of birth on Companies House isnt complete  as it only included the month and the year and 
not the day. Based on this, I think they made it clear to Mr P that once they were in receipt  of 
this information,  all users would be added to the account. They also confirmed to Mr P that 
the account wouldnt be closed.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ps frustration that Aldermore could have asked for the required  
information in one request, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aldermore to have asked for 
the additional information based on their explanation. 
Mr P has sent us a copy of two emails from two of the directors  Mr W and Ms R. These  
include their full dates  of birth and their full addresses. Aldermore have confirmed both of 
these directors have  been added as users  to the account. 
Mr P told us that he provided his date of birth over the phone  to Aldermore. Ive looked at 
Aldermores internal contact notes and I cant see that Mr P sent his full date of birth after it 
was requested in December  2017.  I can see the first call made by Mr P to Aldermore was in 
July 2018. So I dont think Aldermore did have the right information from Mr P to be able to 
add him to the account.
Ref: DRN23953273When Mr P called Aldermore in July 2018 to ask for account statements, it was at this point 
Aldermore told him that as he wasnt a registered  user of the account, they wouldnt be able 
to send these  to him. Mr P says he spoke  with a manager at Aldermore who then agreed to 
send out an account statement to the registered user,  Ms R.  Mr P and Aldermore both 
agree that Mr P had told the manager during this call that hed contact Aldermore a few 
weeks after to go through his request to be added as a user to the account.  But due to other 
commitments, Mr P says he was unable to call them at this time. Aldermore said as he didnt 
contact them, they assumed  no further  changes needed to be made  to the account  and I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for them to believe this. 
Mr P says he made several attempts to call the manager after the time he said hed call 
back, but he was unable  to reach  him. I can appreciate this would have been  frustrating  for 
Mr P. Aldermore have apologised for this and I dont think they need to do anything  more.
Mr P says Aldermore could have proactively contacted him to let him know of the information  
they still required to add him and other  directors as users to the account. However, I dont 
think Aldermore were  under any obligation to proactively contact  Mr P as there  was at least 
one registered  user on the account already. I think Mr P could have contacted Aldermore 
before July 2018 if he wasnt  able to use the account  in the way he wanted.  And I dont think 
Aldermore needed  to do anything more in letting Mr P know what verification  information 
was needed.
Overall, based on the reasons Ive explained above,  I dont think  the information  Aldermore 
asked for was unclear or unreasonable. 
Aldermore sending correspondence to the incorrect  address
Mr P says Aldermore sent correspondence to the incorrect address  one piece of 
correspondence was sent to the M business  address. 
From the information Ive seen, I dont think Aldermore did anything wrong by sending  
correspondence to Ms business address. Aldermore say because  Mr P wasnt a registered 
user on the business  account, they chose  to correspond  with the address registered when 
the account was set up. And I dont think it was unreasonable  for Aldermore to do this. 
I note Mr Ps comment that the account statement Aldermore sent to Ms R had the incorrect 
door number  in the address. Aldermore  have told Mr P that correspondence sent about M is 
sent to the address that was registered  with them when the account was first set up. As Ive 
explained, I dont  think it was unreasonable for Aldermore to use the address registered for 
M on its correspondence. Mr P has sent us a copy of an email from Ms R where she 
confirmed she received the statement  via email. So I dont  think  Aldermore did anything  
wrong and I dont think there has been  any detriment or inconvenience caused  here as Ms R 
received the statement she requested. 
registered users on the account
Aldermore have confirmed Mr W and Ms R are the registered users on the account. I note 
Aldermore said in their final response letter of November 2018 as Ms R is no longer a 
director for M, they would look to remove her from the account. They  also reminded Mr P 
that Aldermore  must  be informed of any changes made to the structure of the company and 
this includes directorship.  
Ref: DRN23953274Aldermore have asked  for further  information from Mr P in order  to add him as a user to the 
account. This information has been  requested due to amendments  made  to the know  your 
customer policy. And a list of what Mr P could  provide to add him as a registered user was 
sent with the case handlers assessment. So it is up to Mr P if he and any other  directors  
wish to provide this information to be added as registered users on the account.
Mr P, on behalf of M, accepted the £25 compensation Aldermore offered for the 
inconvenience caused. So I havent  reviewed  this as part of my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
M, to accept or reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2395327