K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mr and Mrs G say Skipton Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G took the PPI with a new mortgage.  Mr and Mrs G have  said when they took 
their first mortgage Skipton had told them they had to take PPI. And Mr and Mrs G have said 
they were guided by this later and always took PPI because they thought they had to. But 
the new mortgage offer didnt say that PPI had to be taken with the new mortgage. And the 
mortgage application form Mr and Mrs G signed  to apply for the new mortgage had equally 
noticeable boxes  to say either yes or no to PPI. So this makes me think that Skipton likely  
made Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI was something they had a choice about taking. 
On Mr and Mrs Gs application  form the yes box for PPI is ticked. And I think its likely they 
wouldve known they couldve  ticked  no for PPI if they didnt want the PPI. Selections were 
also made on the form for the amount of extra cover  and for the cover  to be split between 
them. And Mr and Mrs G signed the form. So in the light of this and everything else Ive said 
above, I think Skipton  likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take the cover  - 
and they chose to take it.
Skipton recommended  the PPI so it had to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs G. And 
from what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, I think  the PPI was right them.  They 
werent affected by any of the limits to or exclusions on the cover,  from what  Ive seen. For 
example they didnt  have existing health issues so they wouldnt have been  affected by the 
policy exclusion for absences caused  by pre-existing health conditions.  They  also seem to 
have had a need for the cover. 
I say this taking into account  that the PPI helped protect Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage,  a long 
term liability secured on their home. The cover wouldve paid out for a successful sickness or 
unemployment claim for up to twelve months. Neither Mr nor Mrs G wouldve received full 
pay if they were off work for that long. And the PPI benefit would have been paid out on top 
of any sickness or redundancy benefits Mr and Mrs G received from their work.  By helping 
with their mortgage related costs, the PPI benefit would  help protect  Mr and Mrs Gs savings 
at what could be a difficult time if either of them were unemployed or too sick to work.
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take the cover   so I think they wanted  this type of 
cover for sickness and unemployment.  And, as Ive said above, I think the cover wouldve  
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  From  what  Mr and Mrs G have said, it wasnt  
explained to them that unemployment notice periods for which pay was received werent 
covered  so the benefit waiting period  wouldnt start until after that. Ive thought about this, 
but the cover would still help them if they were  still unemployed when the waiting period 
Ref: DRN23175042came to an end. Having taken everything into account, on balance  I dont think  better 
information about the PPI wouldve changed  Mr and Mrs Gs decision to take the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Gs points but, for the reason Ive already given  above,  
these points dont  change my decision.
What Ive said above means Skipton  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs G. But Skipton  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G 
because:
Skipton got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Skipton didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.
To put that right, Skipton has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Skipton has to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Skipton  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
Skipton should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of the PPI. Skipton should 
also pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Skipton has to take basic  rate tax off this interest.  Mr and Mrs G can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. But Skipton Building Society does have to pay back 
to Mr and Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2317504