K820x#14complaint
Ms S took out a Total  Mortgage  Protection plan with a mortgage in 2002. The plan included 
accident, sickness and unemployment cover (PPI), as well as life and critical illness  cover.
Ms S says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. As Ms S has only 
complained about the sale of the PPI, thats  all I have looked  into.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms S says she didnt  know  shed  taken out the PPI policy  and it wasnt  discussed. And 
I accept that (16 years on) this is how Ms S might remember  things. But it was a long time 
ago and its possible shes  forgotten that she did agree to take it out  after all, buying 
insurance isnt a particularly memorable event,  particularly  when  youre probably more  
focussed on getting a mortgage  to buy a new house.
I appreciate Halifax hasnt been  able to provide any paperwork to show  Ms S did agree to 
take out the PPI. But this isnt surprising given  how long ago the PPI was sold and the fact it 
was cancelled in 2006. But Ive seen  the type of paperwork Ms S is likely to have completed 
at the time and think this would have made it clear the PPI was optional.  I dont think  the PPI 
wouldnt have been set up without her agreement.
So, on balance, I think its likely Halifax made  it clear  that Ms S didnt have to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Ms S has said she had other means or repaying the mortgage if she wasnt  able to work. 
Weve asked for more  information about  these  but this hasnt been forthcoming.  She 
previously told us her employer would pay her in full for six months  if she was off sick and 
this would reduce  to half pay for a further six months. But her manager had the discretion  to 
keep it at full pay.
The PPI would pay out on top of any sick pay Ms S would  have  received.  And while I accept 
its possible she might  receive  full pay for up to 12 months, it doesnt seem this was 
guaranteed. So the PPI would be useful if Ms S was off sick of more  than six months  and her 
income reduced significantly. Ms S was solely responsible for repaying her mortgage  and 
given the consequences of not being  able to do so, I think the PPI would have given her 
peace of mind. It would  also have  meant  she wouldnt have to rely on the help of her family.
Ref: DRN26747112Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But its likely she chose to take it out  so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  
And as Ive explained,  it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2674711