K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured lending facility that Mr and Mrs D have with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). At its highest level,  the complaint is that 
NatWest hasnt treated  them fairly in its approach to recovering  the debt.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own words and rounding some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. One reason I have 
left out a lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my decision is 
published. Another is because much of the complaint lies beyond  my remit, for various  
reasons.
An earlier complaint Mr and Mrs D made about  how NatWest treated them was the subject 
of a final decision from a fellow  ombudsman in May 2017. To be clear, Im not revisiting 
anything that was covered in that decision. Thats not say I wont  reference events before 
May 2017, but if I do, it will be to place more recent events in their proper context. 
My remit  to consider this complaint is further  constrained by a jurisdiction decision issued by 
another ombudsman  colleague in February of this year. That decision, which  I also wont be 
revisiting, specified that our remit to consider the current complaint was limited  to four broad  
areas. These were, in summary,  that:
without prior warning,  a letter was issued in January 2019 giving fifteen days  notice 
letter of NatWests intention to recover the debt,  including a personal account overdraft 
that wasnt covered  by the security;
a valuation of the security  was carried out that Mr and Mrs D considered  incomplete;
an advisor provided poor service; and
Mr and Mrs D want to know why their payment  proposals have  been  rejected.
The investigator to whom the case was allocated wasnt persuaded NatWest had done  
anything that amounted  to unfair  treatment.  Mr and Mrs D have asked for their case  to be 
decided by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
Ref: DRN25984072power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them.
In that regard, whilst the case  has been with us, Mr and Mrs D have expressed some dismay  
at the actions of a firm of receivers appointed  by NatWest to manage  their affairs using  
powers conferred in it by the Law of Property Act 1925. I wont  be addressing that issue; Ive 
already made clear  the extent of my remit to deal with this complaint. Id merely  add, for 
information only, that once appointed, Law of Property Act receivers  act for the borrower, not 
the lender, so their actions dont fall within the scope of our service in any event.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
the fifteen-day notice letter
Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided;  the two things arent the 
same. Wed expect a lender to consider offering  help to consumers going through a 
temporary problem, especially in situations  where it can be seen their situation  is likely to 
improve. 
The difficulty  here is that Mr and Mrs Ds difficulty in repaying their debt has been  anything 
but temporary. The pressure to do so must  be immense  for Mr and Mrs D, and Im not 
unsympathetic towards them in that regard. But my impartiality  means  I must  also have 
regard for NatWests point  of view. 
Thats where historical context becomes relevant, and when I view the decision to issue the 
fifteen-day letter against the conduct  of the account  in its entirety  and not just against the 
immediate situation  at the time it was taken   its apparent to me that NatWest has shown 
remarkable patience and lenience towards  Mr and Mrs D for a very long time. Its not obliged 
to do so indefinitely.  
Mr and Mrs D make the point that their personal  account  overdrawn by around  £17,000  at 
the time  isnt covered  by the security. That may or may not be true (I havent been  able to 
establish whether  or not NatWest holds an all-monies charge)  but its a moot  point. 
Overdrafts are repayable  on demand. If NatWest wishes to call in an unsecured  debt at the 
same time as a secured  debt, thats a reasonable exercise of its commercial  judgement,  and 
theres no proper basis  for me to second  guess or otherwise interfere in either decision.
Ref: DRN25984073the valuation
NatWest wanted  an up-to-date assessment of the value of the security,  as part of its 
consideration of repayment proposals from Mr and Mrs D; thats standard  banking  practice  
and perfectly reasonable. The party NatWest instructed to carry out the valuation wasnt able 
to arrange a site visit with Mr and Mrs D so the bank decided it would accept a drive-by 
valuation instead.  That too was a matter for NatWests  commercial judgement.
poor service
When our investigator pressed Mr and Mrs D for more details of what  they considered to be 
poor service, Mr D said - in a phone conversation in May 2019   that this was a relatively  
small part of the broader  issue. It was more  a sense that the advisor wasnt  doing enough to 
keep them updated and referring things  to her manager as shed said she would. 
I appreciate this was a stressful  time for Mr and Mrs D, but even if the advisor didnt do 
everything she said she would (or didnt do things as swiftly and as she could have) Im not 
persuaded Mr and Mrs D have suffered detriment as a result.  Ultimately,  NatWest set out its 
position in a written  final response,  thus allowing the complanit to come  to us. 
rejection of repayment proposals
In essence, my findings here are broadly  linked  to the conclusions I reached regarding  the 
decision to issue the fifteen-day notice letter. A lender has a duty to give due consideration 
to any repayment  proposals put forward by a borrower. Its quite apparent NatWest did do 
that; but ultimately, it didnt find the proposals  acceptable, and to be clear, it didnt have to. 
Nor is appropriate for me to form my own judgement on the viability or otherwise of 
Mr and Mrs Ds proposals, and impose it on NatWest. Im not a business consultant, and its 
not my role to analyse Mr and Mrs Ds business plans and decide how likely it is that theyd 
come to fruition. It was for NatWests commercial  judgement to decide if it wanted to take the 
risk of Mr and Mrs Ds plans working out. Unfortunately, it seems  it didnt,  and it wouldnt be 
right of me to say that it should have done.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right from NatWest in a final decision on 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint,  regardless  of their wider situation. If that eventually  leads to court  
action, that may well be unwelcome  to Mr and Mrs D but in all the circumstances I cant say 
its unfair. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr and Mrs D 
have brought  the complaint. They see error  or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank 
and its representatives  have done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
Ref: DRN25984074anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Mr and Mrs Ds favour,  however much they think  I should.
Mr and Mrs D dont have to accept  my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
NatWest will be bound  by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs Ds right to take legal action against NatWest  over the 
subject matter of this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it. They 
wouldnt necessarily have  to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. 
In the event NatWest  resumes possession proceedings, as I said earlier Mr and Mrs D can, 
if they wish, ask the court to consider all of the arguments theyve presented  here as part of 
their defence. There would then be an opportunity for the court  to decide whether, in all 
those circumstances,  it would be fair to give possession  of the mortgaged property to 
NatWest.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against National Westminster Bank Plc. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 May 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2598407