K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading  as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in 2004. The PPI was added  to the credit card at the same  
time and covered his repayments if he couldnt  work  due to disability or unemployment. It 
also included life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr C disagreed, so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Mr C that the PPI was optional and got his agreement  
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said during the sale, Ive looked closely  at all 
of the information I have,  including  what Mr Cs said.
Halifax has sent me a copy of Mr Cs signed credit card application. It included a clear  and 
prominent box to mark if he wanted PPI and a separate box next to it for another  insurance 
product it was selling.  Theres a printed  cross in the PPI box, but not in the other box. If 
Halifax had added the cross  after the event, as Mr C suggests, I might have expected both 
insurances to be selected. Instead  I believe the application, together with experience of how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time, suggests there was a discussion  between  Mr C and the adviser 
about insurance. And that he chose to take PPI, knowing  it was optional.
The parties agree that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C. This means it had to look into 
whether PPI was right for him. I dont know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me 
and what Mr Cs told me about his circumstances at the time of the sale,  I consider the PPI 
was right for him in any case because:
He was eligible  for the PPI. And I cant see that he was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
He says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay and/or redundancy pay from his 
employer. But the main PPI benefits would have paid out on top of that, and for up to 
12 months per claim. Mr C also had savings  but the PPI would have allowed him to 
retain what hed set aside or put it towards covering his other living costs if he wasnt  
working. Overall, I think the PPI would still have been of use to him. 
Ref: DRN29046962Theres nothing to suggest Mr C couldnt  afford the PPI. And, if he no longer wanted 
it, the PPI was flexible  enough that he could have cancelled  it at no extra cost.
Halifax also had to make  sure it told Mr C enough about the PPI for him to make up his own 
mind about  whether it was right for him. And it had to do this in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Mr C or how well it 
was explained.  But, for the same reasons I believe the PPI was right for him, I dont find that 
better information would  have  made a difference to his decision to take it out.
This means  I dont  believe the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  consider it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr C now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2904696