K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that George Banco Limited (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
August 2020.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. GBL hasnt 
provided us with anything further. Mrs M provided us with some comments. Although  I am 
only summarising here what Mrs M has said, I have considered  her entire  response  carefully  
before writing this decision.
Mrs M has sent us a further copy of her bank  statements from around  the time the loan was 
agreed. She has pointed out some  transactions that she says show the financial problems 
she was facing. She was charged an unarranged  overdraft  fee in January 2016 and she 
says there  are a number  of items of expenditure that werent included in the expenditure  she 
gave to GBL when  she applied for the loan. Mrs M says she was reliant on credit  with loans 
from another guarantor  lender and a short  term lender. And towards  the end of 2015 Mrs M 
says she made payments  to a debt collector and on a logbook loan. She also says that by 
the time she took the loan from GBL she owed money on catalogue shopping and a credit 
card and was in arrears  with both her mortgages.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The bank statements that Mrs M has sent to us formed part of my considerations when 
reaching my provisional decision. I agree with her that the statements show  some  items of 
expenditure that didnt form part of her declaration to the lender when she asked for the loan. 
But, as I noted  in my provisional decision, the analysis that GBL performed allowed for 
additional items of expenditure  by using some industry statistical  data to revise  Mrs Ms 
declared expenditure upwards.
Mrs M says that her finances were in a very serious situation when she took the loan. But 
that wasnt shown  either  in her bank statements or the credit  check  results  that GBL 
received. And it wasnt something that Mrs M told GBL when she asked for the loan either. 
So I dont  think it is reasonable to alter the provisional conclusions that I reached on this 
complaint. 
Although I dont think the checks GBL did before agreeing this loan were  proportionate, 
I dont think better checks should have led to the loan request being  declined. I dont think  
this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against George Banco Limited.
Ref: DRN20180732Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN20180733EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs M complains that George Banco  Limited (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs M was given a single  loan by GBL. She borrowed £1,000 in February  2016 that she agreed to 
repay in 36 monthly  instalments. A family  member agreed to act as guarantor  for her borrowing. 
Mrs M tells us that she has recently finished repaying  the loan.
Mrs Ms complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt  think the checks  GBL 
had done before agreeing  the loan had been sufficient. And she thought that better  checks would 
have led to GBL deciding that the loan wasnt sustainably  affordable for Mrs M. So she asked GBL to 
pay Mrs M some  compensation.
GBL didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time GBL gave this loan to Mrs M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so GBL had to think about whether repaying  the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs M. In practice  this meant that 
GBL had to ensure that making  the repayments wouldnt  cause  Mrs M undue difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for GBL to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs M. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
Ref: DRN20180734There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether GBL did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend to Mrs M.
GBL gathered some  information from Mrs M before it agreed the loan. It asked her for details of her 
income, and her normal expenditure. It then used some industry  statistical  data to revise Mrs Ms 
declared expenditure upwards. And it checked her credit file. Although  the credit  check showed that 
Mrs M had defaulted on an account some years earlier I dont think  it showed any evidence of more 
recent problems that should have caused additional concerns  to the lender.
Mrs M was entering  into a significant commitment with GBL. She would need to make monthly  
repayments for a period of three years. So I would expect that GBL would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mrs Ms financial circumstances before it 
agreed to lend to her. I dont think that the checks it did were enough.  I think it would  have been 
proportionate for GBL to independently  check the true state of Mrs Ms finances before agreeing  the 
loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks GBL did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in itself 
doesnt mean  that Mrs Ms complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded  that what I 
consider to be proportionate checks would  have  shown  GBL that Mrs M couldnt  sustainably  afford 
the repayments. So Ive looked at Mrs Ms bank statements, and what shes told us about  her 
financial situation, to see what better checks would have shown GBL.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that GBL should 
have carried out. I do think GBL needed evidence to corroborate what  Mrs M said was happening with 
her finances.  And looking at her bank statements  is one way of achieving that although  there are of 
course many other ways  that level of detail  could be established. But I think  that by looking at Mrs Ms 
bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Ive carefully considered the information shown on Mrs Ms bank statements  around the time that she 
borrowed from GBL.  I can see that the income  she declared was made  up of earnings from her 
employment, tax credits and child benefit payments.  In total that income was slightly more  than shed 
declared to the lender.  And the expenditure that is shown  on her bank statements is broadly in line 
with the assessment GBL made of her spending, based on the information Mrs M provided and its 
own statistical  models.
The checks GBL did, and what I consider to be proportionate  checks, both dont show any clear 
evidence that Mrs M would  be unlikely  to be able to repay this lending  in a sustainable manner. Her 
bank statements dont show any evidence of serious  financial problems such  as excessive use of an 
overdraft, multiple  other credit  repayments,  or regular  unpaid transactions. I think  it would have been 
reasonable for GBL to conclude that the loan would  be sustainably affordable  for Mrs M.
I can see that Mrs M has faced problems  repaying  this loan. But that in itself doesnt suggest  that GBL 
shouldnt have given  it to her. Circumstances that might  be apparent at the time a lending decision is 
made, might alter over the course  of such a lengthy repayment period. But unless those changes 
were reasonably foreseeable I dont  think  that means a lender should expect the changes and factor  
them into any lending decision. And although I can see that GBL repeatedly contacted  Mrs M about 
her repayments being missed or delayed,  I havent  seen  anything to make me conclude that contact  
was unreasonable or excessive.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mrs M. But, in summary, although  I dont think 
the checks  GBL did before agreeing this loan were proportionate, I dont think  better  checks  should  
have led to the loan request  being  declined. So I dont currently think this complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN2018073