K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc unnecessarily delayed  payments he 
wanted to make and its staff were rude and aggressive when trying  to make sure the 
payments were genuine. Hes asking  for £3,000 compensation.
background 
The details of the specific amounts and dates of the payments Mr D wanted to (and 
eventually did) make in 2018  are well known to both parties. Thats also true of the issues 
Mr Ds complaining about. So I dont need to repeat those  at length here. But I hope  Mr D 
and NatWest will accept the following as a brief summary of what  happened.
Mr D went into a NatWest branch to make two payments;
The staff were  concerned  the payments may not be legitimate  and Mr D could be a victim 
of fraud,  so they probed him about  what he was trying to do;
Mr D didnt have  enough information to hand  to satisfy NatWest,  so he went  home and 
later visited his home branch and made the payments;
Unknown  to Mr D, the first branch hed visited had contacted NatWests fraud prevention 
team, who rang him to make sure everything  was in order and the payment he was 
looking to make  was genuine;
Mr D felt the tone used by the NatWest staff member was rude and aggressive but he 
was assured there wouldnt  be problems with a payment  he planned on making the next 
day;
There were problems  with other payments  over the next few weeks   due to Mr Ds 
account being blocked because of NatWests concerns  he might be the victim of fraud  
and Mr D says the bank asked him to provide an unnecessary  level of supporting 
documentation;
During at least one more telephone conversation with a NatWest staff member,  Mr D 
considered they were  rude and unhelpful;
Mr D thought  there  were unnecessary  delays  in removing blocks from his account;  and
At one stage,  Mr D was visited by the police  as NatWest was so concerned  about  
whether he might  be a victim of fraud  which he found  upsetting.
In the end, all the payments were made but Mr D wasnt happy with the way hed been 
treated. He complained to NatWest. In particular he was upset about the first call he had 
from the fraud prevention team. And he wanted a copy of all the information NatWest  held 
about him (including call recordings).
The bank didnt  uphold  Mr Ds complaint. It said itd properly carried out its processes  to 
protect both Mr D and the bank. It was genuinely concerned  that he might be the victim of 
fraud. 
NatWest did send Mr D a food hamper and covered some costs and charges that Mr D (or 
those people he was trying to make  payments  to) had incurred. These were made as 
gestures of goodwill. The costs were  nearly  £350  and the food hamper was valued  at £25.
Ref: DRN20743052Mr D wasnt happy with NatWests response, so he contacted us. One of our adjudicators 
looked at things but she didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in terms of trying to 
protect Mr D and his money.
Unfortunately, there wasnt a recording of the key telephone conversation  Mr D was 
concerned about  (at the time of the first two payments). But the adjudicator was able to listen 
to the calls between  NatWest and Mr D about his complaint and look at summary information 
recorded by the bank  at the time Mr D had the problems. Overall, she concluded  NatWest  
hadnt done anything wrong.
But she did note NatWest  hadnt given Mr D a copy of the information held by the bank. As a 
result, the bank  agreed to offer Mr D £50 for the failure to action his request.
Mr D didnt accept this offer. He said it was derisory and didnt reflect  the problems hed 
suffered or the way hed been treated. Mr D has been a customer  of NatWest  for many years 
and it should have dealt with him better. Some of the people he was looking to pay werent 
new  hed been paying them for several years. And the food hamper Mr D had been sent 
earlier was of no use to him due to his health.
Our adjudicator remained of the view that NatWest  hadnt done  anything wrong in terms of 
trying to protect Mr D. But she did get NatWest  to increase its offer of compensation to £75 
to reflect  the issues  over the food hamper.
Again, Mr D didnt accept the adjudicators  view and asked for his complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. So his case has been  passed to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to NatWest and to us. And thats  not surprising. He feels  that  as a long-standing 
customer  NatWest hasnt treated him properly and hes been put to a lot of inconvenience 
as a result.
Mr D doesnt disagree with general  need for NatWest  (indeed any bank) to protect its 
customers. He understands the need for systems and processes to prevent fraud. But I think 
its fair to say that Mr D thinks the bank has been rather high handed  in the way its dealt 
with him.
So Im sure that Mr D will be disappointed  when I say that I agree with our adjudicator. I can 
see shes thought  about the various  points Mr D has made, but not been able to say 
NatWest has done  anything wrong  in trying to prevent  him from being a victim of fraud.
I agree  with this assessment. So I wont be recommending the bank does anything other 
than pay Mr D £75. And its important to remember this simply covers the failure  to deal with 
his information  request  and making  up for the food hamper  Mr D wasnt  able to make use of.
Ref: DRN20743053Banks are often criticised  for not taking action to prevent  their customers from being the 
victims of fraud. Here,  I think  NatWest has acted decisively in trying to be sure Mr D wasnt  
being taken advantage of. The banks staff must have  been sufficiently concerned  about  
Mr D to get its fraud prevention team to contact him and to follow this up by referring the 
matter to the police.
I realise Mr D considers the actions of the bank to be unduly intrusive and badly handled  at 
times. While  he may have been a loyal customer for a long time, that doesnt mean the bank 
shouldnt look to protect his money.
Its unfortunate there isnt a recording of the key telephone conversation Mr D is concerned 
about. NatWest says it didnt record such calls until the end of 2018  long after the issues 
Mr D had here. So nobody is able to say exactly what was said  and more importantly how.
But I can look at the other  evidence of notes in the banks records, call recordings that are 
available, and responses to questions asked  internally when the bank considered  Mr Ds 
complaint. And my review of this other  evidence points to the bank following its processes 
properly. So I think it is more likely that initial conversation was handled correctly. But 
I accept Mr D doesnt see it like that.
Given the size of some of the later payments  Mr D was making, and the banks genuine 
concerns for him, I can understand why NatWest  would  want to have some  independent  
supporting information.  Mr D was able to give the bank what  it needed. I accept  there was a 
degree of inconvenience Mr D suffered here.  But I have to put that in the context of the 
banks concerns.
It does take time for fraud prevention blocks to be removed  from accounts. I know  Mr D 
thinks this took too long in his case.  That was probably because he needed to make some  
payments and the delay in removing the blocks slowed things down. But I dont think the 
delays were excessive.
NatWest hadnt  provided Mr D with the information he requested. So its right the bank  
compensates him for the poor service  hes received in this regard. Not all of what  Mr D is 
asking for is available (the call recordings).  But it should provide him with what  it does have. 
If it hasnt  done  this already, it should do so as soon as practicable.  And I consider 
NatWests offer of £50 compensation enough for this particular issue.
I note NatWest had already reimbursed Mr D for costs that he (or those he was making the 
payments to) had incurred. Mr D isnt out of pocket here and he provided the figures for 
NatWest  so I think its reasonable to assume  hes content with this reimbursement and I 
dont need to take account of it in my decision.  Nat West  has agreed to pay Mr D £25 to 
make up for the fact he wasnt able to enjoy the food hamper it sent him. That seems  to me 
the right thing to do.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision.  But I have to balance  the way Mr D 
feels hes been treated  with NatWests clear and genuine concerns that he might  be the 
victim of fraud. Its important banks take steps to protect their customers, particularly when 
they think a customer  might be vulnerable to being taken advantage of.
My decision  brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Ds dispute with NatWest  
informally, can do for him. Im sorry if my decision disappoints him and that were  not able to 
help Mr D any further on this.
Ref: DRN20743054my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I order National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay Mr D:
£50 for its failure to deal with his information  request; and
£25 to compensate for him not being  able to benefit from the hamper element of the 
banks original  gesture  of goodwill.
Mr D has been reimbursed for costs based on figures he provided to NatWest  so I do not 
make any further award in this regard.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019..
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2074305