K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the service  she received from Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) 
following the death of her father (S). She also complains that BOI allowed a cheque drawn 
on Ss account to be represented and paid after he had passed  away.  
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mrs M and BOI, so I wont repeat it in any great detail. If Ive not mentioned something its 
not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant to the issues. 
S passed away on the 7 November 2017.  Prior  to his death he wrote  2 cheques  on his 
Property Account  both made payable to a third party  A. The cheques  were signed and the 
account was in Ss sole name. The first was for £60,000 and dated the 5 August 2017.  It was 
cleared and paid to A. The second cheque was for £100,000, dated  the 1 November 2017 
and returned refer to drawer as there were insufficient funds in the account when it was 
presented. Mr Ss wife then deposited  £1,000 into Ss property account and the second 
cheque was re-presented,  cleared, and the funds paid to A on the 16 November 2017.
BOI was advised that S had passed away on the 7 December 2017. Mrs M took out a Grant 
of Probate as one of the Executrixes on 15 August 2018. The other  Executrix, Ss wife, 
renounced Probate. Mrs M believes BOI would have  known S had passed away  and as such 
ought not to have allowed  the second  cheque  to be re-presented. She feels BOI would  have 
been told by Ss wife of that fact when she attended  a meeting in branch with her daughter 
shortly after S had passed away. She does not believe the cheque was written out by S and 
is also unhappy at the way in which she was treated by BOI.
BOI rejected Mrs Ms complaint. They argue that they allowed the re-presentation of the 
second cheque  as soon as the account  was in funds when they were unaware that S had 
passed away. And further that they were simply following an authorised  payment instruction 
from S. They do accept that Mrs M asked  for information about Ss property account and the 
joint account he held with his wife, but said they couldnt provide information in relation to the 
former, because when she asked for it she wasnt in receipt of a Grant  of Probate confirming 
her appointment as an Executrix. And they couldnt  disclose  details  of the joint account 
because on death  it had been  transferred into Ss wifes sole name.
Mrs M was unhappy with BOIs response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint  
but didnt think  BOI had acted unfairly. As Mrs M didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I need to consider whether BOI acted fairly  and reasonably in its dealings with Mrs M. I 
take into account both BOIs view and that of Mrs M. My aim is not to address every  single 
point which  might be raised, rather to reach a fair and reasonable decision based on the 
evidence before me. Where that evidence is incomplete, inconclusive  or contradictory, then 
I have to come to a decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  I consider what  
Ref: DRN22531162is more likely to have  happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider  
circumstances of the case.  
This is a very unfortunate situation and I do understand  Mrs Ms concerns. But an analysis of 
the evidence does confirm that BOI have  not acted unfairly. I know  Mrs M feels that BOI 
knew S had passed  away, but there  is simply no evidence of that. To the contrary  BOI say 
that they were  not aware of his passing  until the 7 December and I have no reason to 
disbelieve them since they have recorded  the date they were advised. Mrs M however is 
simply assuming they would have known, but has no direct  evidence to support that. 
Having made that finding, I turn to the signature  on the cheques.  Both signatures are similar  
and there  is no evidence to say that it was not S who signed them. Mr Ss wife was perfectly 
entitled to make a deposit to Ss property account  and I cant say BOI acted unfairly in 
accepting it as they did not know S had passed  away. Having put his property account into a 
position where the £100,000 could then be honoured, allowing it to be re-presented,  was 
quite normal banking practice as BOI were under the impression S remained alive and 
wished the cheque to be re-presented since he had not called to stop it. They were entitled 
to work on the basis that there  remained  a valid authorised payment instruction from S.
Turning to the complaint that BOI have treated Mrs M badly, I cant find any evidence that 
they have done so. I accept that Mrs M was appointed as an Executrix in Ss Will, but her 
appointment only takes effect upon the Grant of Probate being issued. Until that time BOI 
were perfectly entitled not to discuss any aspect of Ss banking with her. And it is clear that 
BOI were aware of a potential dispute  between Mrs M and Ss wife, so I think they acted 
reasonably in being very careful about  disclosing information and by referring it to their legal 
department, with whom  Mrs Ms lawyers  were able to correspond.
So, I know Mrs M will be disappointed but I have  come to the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator and I cant say BOI have acted unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against from Bank of Ireland 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253116