K821x#15complaint
Mrs V has complained about the difficulties she encountered when she tried to pay a large  
lump sum off her mortgage account  held with NRAM Limited. The mortgage  is in the joint 
names of Mrs V and her husband, Mr V. He is represented in the complaint by a court-
appointed deputy, Ms V. Mrs V has dealt with the complaint throughout. 
background
Mr and Mrs V have  a mortgage account taken out in 2005 and which is now held with 
NRAM.
In January 2019 Mrs V wanted to pay a substantial lump sum - £250,000  to the mortgage  
account. Mrs V attempted the payment  by debit card on 22 and 24 January 2019  and each  
time the payment failed. The payment was successfully made  on 24 January 2019. 
Mrs V complained to NRAM about the difficulties  with making the payment,  and the 
problems shed had contacting her mortgage adviser. NRAM said there was no evidence to 
suggest there were  any errors with its payment system. NRAM also said that, because  
mortgage advisers work on an appointment system,  its not always possible to contact them  
on an ad hoc basis.
Unhappy with NRAMs response,  Mrs V brought the complaint to us. An investigator looked 
at what had happened. In a detailed letter dated 25 June 2019 he set out the full history of 
the transaction, including  all the various calls made between Mrs V and NRAM. 
He was satisfied  Mrs V had made arrangements with her bank to allow  her to make payment 
of £250,000 by debit  card. Mrs Vs bank had allowed her a 30-minute window within  which 
the transactions would  be approved by her bank without being flagged up on her banks 
security systems.
The investigator was provided with evidence  from Mrs Vs bank which  showed  that the debit 
card payments had failed.  Eventually, on 24 January 2019, payment was made by bank  
transfer at a cost of £30.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  NRAM should 
have told Mrs V on 21 January 2019  that payment should be made by bank transfer. Whilst 
this wasnt Mrs Vs preferred method of payment,  a bank  transfer  would have ensured that 
the lump sum was applied to the mortgage  on 21 January 2019.
The investigator asked  NRAM  to treat the overpayment as if it had been made on 
21 January 2019  and to reimburse any overpaid  interest to the account.  He also asked  
NRAM to pay compensation of £50 and to reimburse the £30 bank transfer  fee.
NRAM disagreed with the investigators findings. It said that it couldnt  identify any error with 
its bank and that it wasnt NRAMs fault if Mrs Vs bank had declined  the debit card 
transactions. Because NRAM didnt agree with the investigator,  it now falls to me to issue  a 
final decision.
Ref: DRN29694622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive listened to all the call 
recordings and reviewed  all the written evidence. Where the evidence  is inconclusive  or 
incomplete, I have to decide  what I think is most  likely to have happened, based on the 
available evidence.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as the investigator,  for largely the same 
reasons.
Im satisfied that the reasons  given by NRAM about why Mrs V wasnt  able to speak to the 
mortgage adviser on 21 January 2019  are valid; generally specialist advisers work on an 
appointment system,  so there was no guarantee that Mrs V would  be able to speak to the 
adviser if she called at a random  time.  So I dont think NRAM has done  anything wrong in 
relation to this part of the complaint.
But I think that, at the outset, NRAM should have explained to Mrs V on 21 January 2019 
that its preferred  method of payment  was by bank transfer, as this would guarantee the 
payment reaching  the account  the same day. I appreciate NRAM tried to accommodate 
Mrs Vs wish to pay by debit card, but when the first payment failed, I think NRAM should  not 
have continued  to persist  with further  attempts. 
Although I would generally  say that NRAM should follow a customers instructions, the 
customer isnt always right and theres  a duty on NRAM to point out when a customer is 
following a course  of action thats not likely to result  in the desired outcome. NRAM has 
more expertise in these  matters than Mrs V. In the circumstances, I think  NRAM should  have  
explained to Mrs V that she would need  to make a bank transfer to be certain of the transfer  
going through without further  difficulty, rather than allowing her to continue  to try to make 
payments which  kept failing.
Its not possible to establish exactly why the debit card transactions didnt go through.  NRAM 
says Mrs Vs bank declined the transactions. But Mrs Vs bank says that they failed at 
NRAMs end. I think that, given Mrs V had specifically  arranged a window within which  to 
make the transfers,  its more likely  than not that the fault probably wasnt with her bank.  So I 
think that if NRAM had made it clear  to Mrs V on 21 January  2019  that she should make  a 
bank transfer  to ensure receipt of the funds that day, shed have done this, albeit reluctantly. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.  I think that, by allowing 
Mrs V to continue on a course of action which kept failing,  NRAM caused her some upset 
and inconvenience.  I think a payment of compensation should  be made for this. I think £50 is 
fair. I also think  NRAM should reimburse the interest  charged between 21-24 January 2019,  
as well as the bank transfer  fee.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement I order  NRAM Limited 
to do the following:
rework the mortgage account as if the overpayment of £250,000 had been  made  on 
21 January 2019 and reimburse interest accordingly;
refund  the bank  transfer fee of £30;
Ref: DRN29694623pay £50 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V and Ms V 
on behalf of Mr V to accept or reject  my decision before 6 December 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2969462