K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the response  of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
 
Background 
Mr and Mrs C were cold-called  by a company that supplied and installed solar panel 
systems. Following a sales meeting at their home,  Mr and Mrs C agreed to enter into a 
contract with the company for it to supply and install a solar panel  system costing £10,370. 
To pay for this, they also agreed  to enter  into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim under  Section 75 (s75) of the CCA via their representative. The 
representative said that the solar  panel  company had told Mr and Mrs C that there  would be 
no cost to them by having the solar panels installed and that they would be self-funded.  
They sad the solar  panel company had gone  on to tell them  that their monthly loan 
repayments to Shawbrook would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT)  income  
theyd receive. But this hadnt been the case.  Instead, their monthly loan repayments had 
been significantly higher. To reduce the impact  of this, Mr and Mrs C had settled their 
Shawbrook loan by re-mortgaging at a lower  interest rate.
In its final response letter,  Shawbrook didnt think that the benefits of the solar  panel system 
had been misrepresented  to Mr and Mrs C. Unhappy  with this, they referred their complaint 
to this service.
Following our involvement Shawbrook made an offer to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. It 
said it had worked out the potential savings and income  to Mr and Mrs C from the solar 
panels over the 15 year term of the loan.  It then said it would  restructure the loan so they 
would pay no more  than this over the 15 year loan term.  Following its calculation,  and as 
Mr and Mrs C had settled their loan early, Shawbrook offered an overall refund of £2,000,  
which was slightly higher than the estimated financial benefits  they would receive. It also 
offered to pay Mr and Mrs C £100  for the trouble  and upset caused.
Our investigator thought that the offer put forward was fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs C, via their representative,  didnt  agree.
In summary  they didnt  think  it was fair that the system had been made cost neutral over the 
15 year term of the loan.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has been passed to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C say that they were cold-called  and during a subsequent sales  meeting told 
that the solar  panel system  would come at no cost to them as it would be entirely self-
financing. As neither  Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs C dispute that the benefits  of the solar 
panels were misrepresented, my decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation.
Ref: DRN21045012Ive noted that Mr and Mrs C representative  doesnt  disagree with the methodology that 
Shawbrook has used  to calculate the overall benefits they will receive  from the system. It 
disagrees that the term of the loan should be used as the point that the system is cost 
neutral.
Ive thought carefully on whether Shawbrooks  offer of compensation is fair. Mr and Mrs Cs 
initial letter of complaint to Shawbrook, via their representative, sets out that they were  led to 
believe that the solar  panel system  would  self-funded and The system would not cost 
them a penny. Therefore, my view is that one of the key reasons that Mr and Mrs C agreed 
to enter  into the contract with the solar panel  installer was because of these  
misrepresentations.
When deciding fair compensation, my role isnt to make the misrepresentation true. I 
appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back into the position they wouldve been in if 
there hadnt been any misrepresentation.  But here, I dont think  it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panel system  from their home. Rather,  I 
think the fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs C in a position where the solar panels  are 
cost neutral. By allowing  Mr and Mrs C to keep the panels, Im satisfied that they will likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the offer from Shawbrook  will mean that the 
system is cost neutral to Mr and Mrs C and that they will not incur a financial loss.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they refinanced the Shawbrook loan when it became apparent  
to them  that the benefits from the solar  panel system wouldnt be sufficient to cover their 
monthly loan repayments. They did this to reduce the monthly financial shortfall they were 
experiencing each month.  Mr and Mrs C have since settled the second loan.
Usually I would ask Shawbrook to take into account the amount paid towards  the second 
loan when calculating  the overall  amount  that Mr and Mrs C have paid for their solar panel  
system. This is because  I would expect Shawbrook to take into account the additional  cost 
caused by refinancing to ensure that Mr and Mrs C pay no more than the overall  financial 
benefits they are estimated to receive  over 15 years. 
Due to the time that has passed  since this loan has been settled, Mr and Mrs C are unable  
to provide any paperwork to show the overall  amount  they paid back on the second loan. So 
there isnt any paperwork  available to allow Shawbrook to quantify this additional cost.
Shawbrook has said that following  its calculation of the estimated benefits Mr and Mrs C are 
expected to receive over the original  15 year loan term, it increased  its offer to £2,000. 
This amount is higher  than I would usually consider to be fair compensation. Having said 
that, I do consider  that the additional  payment does contribute towards any additional costs 
Mr and Mrs C incurred when they refinanced.   
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that the current offer from Shawbrook is fair.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr and Mrs C first 
contacted Shawbrook that means  their claim should have been upheld.  The fact that this 
didnt happen  undoubtedly caused  them  trouble and upset, and consequently Ill make an 
award of £100  to reflect this. 
Ref: DRN21045013My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should be upheld.  In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
1.allow Mr and Mrs C to keep the solar panels,
2.pay Mr and Mrs C £2,000; and,
3.pay Mr and Mrs C £100 for the trouble and upset  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2104501