K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr M says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Given how long ago the account was opened, there isnt much paperwork or evidence 
available. But Lloyds  has given us an example of the type of credit  card application form 
that was in use at the time.  This has a separate section for PPI where Mr M would have 
had to tick to say he wanted to take it out. The PPI wouldnt  have  been  added if he 
hadnt ticked this box. So I think its likely Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr M says he was self-employed at the time and this would mean  he wouldnt be 
covered by the policy. But there  werent  any limitations or exclusions that would make it 
harder for him to make an unemployment  claim  than someone who was employed. Mr M 
has also said he suffered from a medical condition  around  20 years  ago. Hes been 
unable to tell us exactly when this was  it might have been  after the policy  started. So 
while it could be that he wouldnt have been  able to claim for time off because  of this 
condition, because  of the uncertainty, I dont  have enough to uphold  the complaint  for 
this reason.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2778331