K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B, whom  Ill call the borrowers, complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  
two fixed rate commercial  loans. 
Via their representative they say in particular that (a) in respect of both loans, the bank didnt 
adequately explain  how large the break costs might  be if the loan were repaid while the 
interest rate was fixed, and that (b) in respect of the second loan, the bank dishonestly 
induced the borrowers to enter into it and thereby to forgo  the very advantageous interest 
rate they would otherwise  have soon been  entitled  to pay, if the first loan had continued. 
background
The borrowers entered into the first loan in 2008.  The interest rate was fixed  for five years,  
while the loan itself had a 20 year term. 
In 2012, after discussions between the bank  and the borrowers, the latter repaid the first 
loan early and immediately re-borrowed from Lloyds the outstanding capital by entering into 
the second loan. Under  the second  loan, the borrowers paid a variable rate of interest until 
2013 when the interest  rate again  became fixed for a further  five years.  The break  costs  
payable on early repayment of the first loan were  embedded  in the fixed  rate under the 
second loan. 
The relationship between the borrowers and the bank  broke  down, and the borrowers  chose 
to repay  the second loan in 2016,  including break costs. Around the same time they 
complained to the bank about the loans.
The bank accepted it could have done more to explain the potential break costs under the 
loans. It offered to adjust  the borrowers  liabilities  as if no break costs had been due when 
the first loan was repaid and as if (a) a lower fixed interest rate had been payable under the 
second loan and (b) lower break costs had been  payable when the second loan was repaid. 
The borrowers rejected  the banks offer of settlement as insufficient  and asked the 
ombudsman service to review their concerns. Weve  treated them as two separate  
complaints, one relating to each loan.  
Our adjudicator who reviewed the complaints concluded, in respect of the first loan, that if the 
borrowers had been  better informed about  the potential break costs, they wouldnt have fixed  
the rate on the loan at all but would have borrowed at the variable  rate. So he recommended  
that the bank should  make the appropriate  financial adjustments to reflect this.
In respect of the second loan, he thought the borrowers would still have entered  into it and 
fixed the rate for five years from 2013 if theyd been better informed about break costs. So 
he recommended  that the bank should adjust the borrowers liabilities under the second loan 
pursuant to the financial adjustments that would  take place, if his recommendations were 
accepted, under the first loan. This would  mean  that the borrowers would still have paid 
break costs,  albeit lower  ones, under  the second  loan when it was repaid  early in 2016. 
The adjudicator also concluded that interest should be paid by the bank on the sums to be 
refunded under his recommendations. 
Ref: DRN22537882Via their representative, the borrowers have argued that the adjudicators recommendations 
regarding the second loan dont  go far enough.  They say in particular that the adjudicator 
hasnt taken enough account of how the bank dishonestly led them into forgoing  a very 
favourable interest  rate under the first loan, and they query what  the fair/alternative  interest 
rate under the second  loan should be. They also query why they should  have to pay any 
break costs  under the second loan when all parties agree they werent  properly explained. 
The adjudicator responded to the representative, explaining and standing by his conclusions. 
For its part, the bank  hasnt accepted the borrowers account of how the second loan came  
about and of the banks  motives.  
my findings
This document incorporates my findings on each of the two complaints. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaints.
Neither the borrowers nor the bank have challenged the adjudicators  conclusions  regarding 
the first loan. Ive reached the same  conclusions for broadly similar reasons. I think  that in 
their circumstances as they existed  in 2008, the borrowers were  likely to have wished to 
prioritise flexibility of repayment  over the certainty  of payments that the fixed rate provided,  if 
theyd known how large the break costs under the fixed rate might be. 
Regarding the second loan, my findings  are as follows:
My conclusions  should be based,  as always, on evidence rather  than on speculation 
about the banks  possible motives behind  its actions. Theres nothing wrong or improper 
in principle  if the bank  suggests alternative products or loan restructures to commercial 
borrowers, as long as the bank provides adequate  information and doesnt  intentionally  
or inadvertently mislead the customer.  
The bank wasnt  acting  as the borrowers financial adviser. It was for the borrowers to 
assess and evaluate  any commercial propositions that the bank put to them.
Subject to one point, I consider that the bank provided the borrowers with the 
information necessary  to assess and evaluate the second loan before they entered into 
it. In particular,  the borrowers must  be taken to have known,  from the documents theyd  
previously signed,  what the rate of interest  on the first loan would become once the fixed  
rate period came  to an end. 
I too think the bank  didnt adequately  explain how large the break costs might  be under 
the second loan. But I also think the borrowers  would have gone ahead with the second  
loan if theyd  known  how large  the break  costs  might be.
I say this because market interest  rates were at very low levels and I think in those 
circumstances the borrowers, even  if theyd been better  informed about break costs, 
would still have  preferred to fix their loan costs, for what was five years  only,  as they 
would probably  have assessed the risk of having to pay large break costs as low and 
therefore acceptable. 
Ref: DRN22537883It isnt the case that the ombudsman service  always  decides break costs arent payable if 
the bank didnt adequately explain them.  We have  to decide what difference  if any the 
failure to explain  made. Where it would have made no difference if the break costs had 
been adequately  explained   ie where the borrowers  would still have gone ahead  with the 
relevant loan even  if theyd  been  adequately informed about break costs  it follows  that the 
banks failings  havent caused any loss and no financial redress is due on that account.
As Ive reached broadly  the same conclusions as the adjudicator, the steps that Ill require 
the bank to take will be broadly the same  as those recommended by the adjudicator. 
It should be noted that, in the circumstances,  there  will be adjustments to be made to the 
second loan even though  Ive found  the borrowers would still have entered into it. 
my final decisions
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the bank to pay the 
balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaints.  I consider that fair compensation 
requires Lloyds Bank PLC to carry out the steps  I specify below in respect of each 
complaint/loan. I order the bank to do this - up to a maximum financial effect of £150,000  in 
respect of each complaint/loan. 
Recommendation: If the financial  effect of carrying out in full the steps I specify exceeds  
£150,000, I recommend that Lloyds Bank PLC should carry them out in full. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It doesnt  bind the bank. Its 
unlikely that Mr and Mrs B can accept my decisions and go to court to ask for the balance.  
They may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice  before  deciding whether to 
accept my decisions. 
The specified steps
Lloyds Bank  PLC should:
A.Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid under the 2008  fixed  rate 
loan and what they would otherwise have paid, from the start of the 2008 loan until 
the second fixed rate loan began, if the first loan had been on a variable rate basis  
instead and no break costs had been payable under  it. In calculating what 
Mr and Mrs B would have paid under the second fixed rate loan, the bank should use 
the Adjusted Rate, as described in the banks letter  of 21 February  2019, as if that 
rate had applied  instead of the actual fixed rate, and the bank should allow  for the 
fact that no break costs  resulting from the first loan would have been incorporated 
into the second loan.
B.Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between what they paid under the 2012/13 fixed 
rate loan (ie the second loan)  and what  they would otherwise  have paid if the 
Adjusted Rate had applied  to it and the first loan had been adjusted  as described in 
the paragraph immediately above.   
 
Ref: DRN22537884C.Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between the break costs they paid in 2016  and the 
break costs they would  otherwise have  paid under the second  loan as adjusted.
D.Pay Mr and Mrs B compensatory  interest of 8% simple per year on any overpayments 
(identified in paragraphs  A and B above) and the break  costs (from paragraph C) from 
the date they were  made/incurred  to the date compensation is paid.
If the bank  believes  its legally required to deduct tax from this interest, it should send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment. Mr and Mrs B may then be able to reclaim any tax 
overpaid from HM Revenue & Customs, depending on the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  on each  of their complaints  before  18 July 2019.  
Our first complaint reference  number  identifies  the complaint about  the first loan, the other  
complaint reference  number  identifies  the complaint about the second  loan.  
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2253788