K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has declined  to pay for some work
carried out to their property following a flood.  They feel this work should be covered under
their home insurance policy.
Background
In December 2013 Mr and Mrs Ms property was flooded, following exceptional rainfall.
Water entered  their home and caused extensive damage.  So, they made a claim under their
home insurance policy.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to assist with the validation of the claim. The claim was
accepted. When  reporting on the damage the loss adjuster noted that water had entered the
property from the surrounding  fields. And muddy  water from a bank of land to the rear and
side of the property had also flooded into the house. As a result, the entire  ground  floor of
the property was damaged, and the first floor was affected by damp. This had rendered  the
property uninhabitable. So, Mr and Mrs M needed to move  out of the property, and into
alternative accommodation. Which they then did.
Following the stripping  out of the property, and the start of drying  it out, it was noted  there
was still water entering the property. And problems were identified  with the existing damp
proofing to the walls. So, a damp-proof  specialist, and a civil and structural  engineer were
appointed separately to inspect the property, comment  on how water entered  the property,
and in the case of the damp-proof specialist,  recommend a suitable replacement  system
following the flood  damage.
The damp proofing specialist noted  that there was cementatious tanking applied  to the
walls, and a visqueen type membrane at the wall and floor junction. It said this only really
amounted to a water  vapour  barrier  rather than ensuring the property was fully protected
from any water trying  to enter the property. 
So, it recommended  a cavity drainage system was installed, and a drain  in the floor to at 
least two sump and pumps. It also noted  air vent pipes to the first floor of the property would  
need to be weathered/blocked up. And works carried out to the rear of the property too. A 
cost was given  for installing the pipework, and cavity drainage, but not the other  work  
suggested. The cost given was £17,980  + VAT.
The civil and structural engineer provided their report  too. In terms of how the water  entered
the building   they noted the water  had likely entered in a number of ways. For example,
they noted there was land surrounding the property that sloped down towards the property (it
was retained by the building), as well as cattle  ventilation holes that had been left open
during construction. This allowed water  to flow freely  into the building.  In addition  to this, the
engineer said there  were  inadequate damp proofing  measures at the property, inadequate
drainage and water was able to flow under doorways where land sloped toward the property.
Ref: DRN20117592AXA and the appointed  loss adjuster  realised  that because of the above problems,
Mr and Mrs Ms property  was never  going to be fully dried  unless  extensive  work was
carried out. In its interim  report, in June 2014, report, the loss adjuster said that the
independent civil and structural engineer had said he did not consider that the pumping
system suggested by the damp  proofing specialist would resolve the water  ingress  problem.
He suggested  that the only permanent solution would be to remove  the banks to the rear
and side of the property and construct retaining walls.
But AXA and the loss adjuster considered  that this work didnt fall within the scope  of the
policy. In the same  report as above, the loss adjuster said the cost of constructing retaining
walls does not fall within the scope of the policy and this has been explained to Mr M. The
situation remains that reinstatement work  cannot  be undertaken as the property cannot be
dried due to ongoing water ingress.
AXA and the loss adjuster  said the work to build retaining walls would be classed as
betterment. It said this was because it was work needed as a result of poor design  and faulty
workmanship  to prevent  future flooding, as opposed to work  needed  to reinstate the
property to pre-loss condition.
AXA therefore decided  to provide Mr and Mrs M with a cash settlement for their loss. The
contents insurance element of the claim was settled, and payment for alternative
accommodation was provided, up until February 2015. A cash settlement was offered in
respect of remedial works to the building.  Mr and Mrs M accepted  the settlement amounts
provided  but they did raise concerns about  the amount given for the buildings
reinstatement. This was because they didnt  feel it would  be enough to remedy  the problems
at their home.
Mr and Mrs Ms contractor  then carried out work to the property, without the involvement of
AXA as the matter had been cash settled. But, in September 2016 Mr and Mrs M contacted
AXA and explained  they wanted to make a complaint.  They said they were  unhappy
because they felt AXA didnt contribute to remedying all the flood damage at the property.
So, AXA asked Mr and Mrs M for some further information about  this.
Mr and Mrs M responded in April 2017.  They  said they had finished  the work  at the property,
and had it valued. And they had found  themselves in debt as a result of AXA not covering all
the works  at the property. Mr and Mrs M said they had to;
Add new drainage  to the property;
Build some retaining walls;
Excavate some  land surrounding their property to build these  walls;
And purchase land behind the property to allow  for the above to go ahead.
Mr and Mrs M also said they thought  AXA should be providing payment for the additional
months they had stayed  in alternative accommodation, whilst they had carried  out work at
their property. They have  explained they were able to return  to living  at the property in
October 2015, when  the reinstatement to their home was completed.
Ref: DRN20117593AXA didnt agree that it should provide a settlement for the above work. Or to extend the
payment made to Mr and Mrs M for alternative  accommodation. It said that the work carried
out externally  at the property wasnt to put the property back to a pre-flood  condition. But,
was instead extensive work to prevent future flooding  occurring. 
It also noted this work wasnt needed  because of the flood. But because the property had 
been poorly designed and constructed. It felt it had provided a fair payment towards Mr and 
Mrs M for alternative  accommodation. It had provided costs for alternative accommodation 
until February 2015, which was after it estimated the insured works should be complete. And 
it felt the rest of the time Mr and Mrs M remained out of their home, was to do with the 
uninsured work they needed  to carry out.
Because Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service, for
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. She said
Mr and Mrs Ms policy didnt provide cover for flood prevention  measures, and that the
additional works Mr and Mrs M carried out wasnt something the policy  would respond to 
as those works were  instead as a result  of faulty design, and poor workmanship  which
were excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs M remained in disagreement. So, the complaint was referred to me to decide. 
Since this complaint has been referred  to me, there  have been several developments. I dont 
intend on detailing  these all here  only that relevant to the decision below. 
But a key development was that AXA sought the opinion of its surveyor  as to what  would 
constitute an effective  and lasting repair. Its surveyor  submitted  evidence, to say using a 
cavity drainage system,  alongside blocking up the open  cattle  ventilation  holes would  have 
allowed for drying and reinstatement. Alternatively,  the surveyor said Mr and Mrs M could 
have excavated and built retaining walls  on the existing footprint  of the property  rather than 
purchasing more land to do this. It said excavating the land on the existing footprint and 
building the walls would likely cost in the region of £40,000.
AXA therefore said it would now be willing  to offer Mr and Mrs M £40,000,  plus 8% interest,
should they be provided with evidence of the work  being completed.  It said Mr and Mrs Ms
own contractor had a one point quoted £10,519 for excavating footings,  building a retaining
wall, digging  and concreting  for rain drainage  in front of the wall, and supplying gravel for
behind the wall. As well as creating a sloped  pathway. And it provided the document from
Mr and Mrs Ms builder  to show  this. So, AXA considered its offer now made, to be more
than fair.
My provisional decision 
Given the above further information provided I issued  a provisional decision to 
Mr and Mrs M, and AXA, detailing  my thoughts on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im now intending on
upholding this complaint. I have explained why this is now the case below.
As above, AXA has accepted this claim was covered under the policy. And it provided a
Ref: DRN20117594cash settlement to Mr and Mrs M, to reinstate  the building itself property to pre-loss
condition. Mr and Mrs M have said this settlement was insufficient  and that on finishing the
repair work to their home  they were  unhappy they had been left with a significant shortfall in
the costs they had spent, in order to put the property  right.
Because Mr and Mrs M and AXA arent in agreement in respect  of the settlement  for the
buildings part of the claim, it is this Ive needed to consider further. As part of this, Ive also
needed to decide whether AXAs now offer of £40,000, plus 8% interest, on receipt of
evidence of costs,  is reasonable.
AXAs initial cash settlement
As detailed  previously, AXAs  obligation under Mr and Mrs Ms property is to put the property
back in the position it was in, before the damage  occurred.  And as AXA has agreed, the
repair undertaken, or the cash settlement provided, should allow for the work carried  out to
be effective and lasting.
In this case, for the repair to be effective  and lasting, AXA would need to make  sure the
damage from the flooding was fully remedied.  So, this includes the fact the house would
need to be returned to being dry, and free from the water ingress  that occurred since the
flood event. And the method proposed to fix the damage from the flood, should be
something that will last for a reasonable period being an assurance that water isnt
inevitably going to still find its way in through the now damaged  waterproofing.
AXA did undertake investigations to decide how to reinstate the property in 2014,
recognising it needed  to be able to dry the building out before further  repair works could be
undertaken. It appointed experts to look at the property and offer suggestions on how to
resolve the problem.
As above, the damp proof specialist recommended a cavity  drainage  system  and blocking
the open cattle holes.  And the civil and structural engineer said excavating the property and
building the retaining walls would be the only feasible  way forward, to ensure a permanent
solution, according to what  AXAs loss adjuster has said.  So, at this point Im satisfied AXA 
did have information  from specialists detailing what they thought needed to be done to
ensure the property could be dried,  and reinstated.
But then AXA stopped moving  this element  of the claim forward.  It didnt explore the opinions
of its appointed experts any further   to decide  what would be the most reasonable repair
here.
Instead, it declined  to offer a settlement for any of the above suggested repairs to make the
property water tight. So, the cash settlement  provided no allowance within it for either  of
these suggestions.  This was despite  it being clear in mid-2014,  following the response of
both its experts, that it was not going  to be possible to simply dry the property and reinstate
the property, without at least  one of these measures being  taken.
Given this, I do remain  satisfied that when AXA provided its settlement offer this was unfair.
The cash  settlement should have included  costs for work to ensure the property fully dried.
So, I do still intend to require AXA to increase the settlement  provided  to Mr and Mrs M.
But I need to consider  what additional  funds it would have been reasonable for AXA to
provide, to allow for this to happen.  So, this means  considering what  a fair and reasonable
Ref: DRN20117595repair method would have been,  and the likely cost of this, based on the evidence provided
to me.
Repair method
As mentioned previously,  there were two options  suggested during the life of the claim. A
cavity wall drainage  system, and the building of a retaining wall.
AXA has recently provided a further report from its civil and structural engineer  and noted
that this evidences that a cavity wall drainage  system, in addition  to sealing the cattle
ventilation holes would have stopped water entering  the property and allowed it to be to
dried.
Looking at the report I can see the engineer does note that filling  the cattle holes and
improving the cut-off drain alone wouldnt allow  the property to dry in a reasonable amount of
time, if at all. But that the installation of a cavity drainage system, alongside filling the holes
in the building would do so.
This is contrary  to information  I have  been  provided  with previously  where the report by a
damp specialist, that suggested this method of repair, was discounted from the possible
solutions. In an interim  report provided by the loss adjuster it was noted that the civil and
structural engineer  didnt consider the cavity  drainage system would resolve the problem of
water ingress. And Ive also seen an email, in March 2014, from the loss adjusters  surveyor,
noting that internal drainage would not be an option,  because this will have implications on
stair and corridor widths.
Given that the suggested cavity drainage system  was not considered a feasible option,
reducing the size of the stairs and corridors, and that I havent  seen any further evidence
that overcomes  these concerns, I dont think it would be fair for AXA to settle  this element of
the claim,  based  on a cavity drainage system. It wouldnt put the property back  in the
position it was in before the loss.
So, Ive thought about the second repair option.  The building of a retaining  wall. And the
structural and civil engineer mentions this in their most recent report too. They detail;
Even if the Ombudsman  disagrees with me on the limited scope of betterment  I recommend
and still consider that the rear wall should  be separated  from the land it retained. This is in
line with the reports  Ive seen from the loss adjuster nearer the time of the loss. And the
engineer in its report in 2014 also discusses the building of a retaining  wall, and closing the
cattle ventilation  holes, to stop flooding. So, I do think costs for building  a retaining  wall and
closing the cattle ventilation holes  would be reasonable for AXA to do in this case.
In terms of how to build an effective retaining wall, the civil and structural  engineer in their
most recent report notes  it would  not have been necessary to purchase  more land. Instead
they said the wall could have been completed  on the existing footprint of the property.
The engineer noted that completing a single retaining wall on the existing footprint of the
building doesnt  seem to be what Mr and Mrs M have done.  And the engineer said that
having looked on an online satellite system they felt the works undertaken had been too
extensive. Mr and Mrs M have provided  me with photos of the work completed  as well. And
Ive also carefully considered these. The photos show work  to add drainage  to the property,
and to construct a large paved  retaining  structure, which is terraced, rather  than a single
Ref: DRN20117596wall.
Mr and Mrs M have  said they did this level of work. and needed to buy additional  land, in
order to have room  behind the property  to excavate the soil the building  retained.  As well as
to install  new drainage. They said they trusted  their builder that the best way to move
forward would be to build a structure  of staggered  retaining  walls,  so that the back  of the
property was terraced.
Given AXA and Mr and Mrs M dont agree about the way to build  the retaining wall, Ive
thought about what looks to be fair here. Its important  to note Im not an expert in building
retaining walls. Instead, I need to look at the evidence provided  to me and decide what  I
think is most likely  fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having look at the evidence  at
this stage, I think AXAs engineers description of how to carry out the work seems fair.
I think the evidence  shows the engineer has given detailed consideration to what  works are 
necessary, based  on their previous  site visit, as well as a review of the soil type of the
property noted  by the British Geological survey.
They have provided a reasoned explanation  to say that it might  be possible the sort of soil
present at Mr and Mrs Ms property could  have been  self-supporting if battered down
correctly. But that instead of going  with this suggestion, they considered  the different ways  to
build a retaining wall and considered a reinforced retaining wall would be most appropriate,
and this was in line with the experience  of most  contactors. Given that the engineer
considered the conditions  at the property,  as well as the ability for contractors to perform  the
task (as well as it being enough to hold the land back), Im persuaded this would have been
a fair way to build the wall, to ensure the property  could be dry, as opposed to the way the
work has been carried out by Mr and Mrs M.
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs M would have  been careful to consider the recommendations of
their builder.  Although AXA said it provided  guidance to Mr and Mrs M in how to go about the
works, I cant  be sure it really did do this. And I think it should  have provided this guidance,
given this element  of the claim would be covered by the policy.
AXA has said it spoke to Mr and Mrs M in July 2014 and told them a retaining wall would
cost £40,000.  And AXA have  submitted a timeline  to show this is what  happened. But I cant
see a note of this call, to confirm that was what was said at the time. And I havent been
provided with any documents to show information  was provided to Mr and Mrs M, over and
above noting the suggestion to close the cattle  ventilation holes and build a retaining wall. I
cant see any explanation  was provided  as to how to go about  doing this. So, I can
understand why Mr and Mrs M went with the overall  works their builder suggested. And I will
be considering  this below, in the section titled compensation.
But having  said that, its my understanding Mr and Mrs Ms builders suggested repair  works,
was not just to ensure the building was no longer retaining the land, and closing the cattle
holes, to allow the property to dry. There were several other  repairs  the builder needed to
facilitate at the same time, such as adding in drainage systems that were missing from the
property and were not linked  to the flood  event.
AXA arent responsible  under the policy to repair all the structural problems at the house.  It
is only responsible  to do what is necessary to dry the property and then reinstate the inside
of the property to the way it was before. So, any work to make  improvements, prevent future
potential, unrelated flooding issues, and remedy issues with drains that should have been
Ref: DRN20117597there are not covered  by the policy. It only covers damage caused by the one-off event of
flood.
I havent seen  any firm evidence that completing  the works  as Mr and Mrs M did, such as
terracing the walls  being built (there is now a patio type area there), was necessary  to
complete solely  insured  works to enable drying.  And for the repair to be effective and lasting.
Given what Mr and Mrs M have said, I think its likely the work was to carry out
recommendations to build a retaining wall and dry the home. But also,  to deal with other
structural issues that needed addressing. And whilst I dont think AXA provided enough
guidance on how to build  the right retaining  wall, I am satisfied that throughout its
correspondence with Mr and Mrs M it was clear that problems with the way the property was
build were not covered.
Given the above, I think it is reasonable for AXA to provide a cash settlement for the cost of
building a single,  retaining wall, and filling the cattle ventilation holes.
Increase in settlement
AXAs surveyor has submitted information in the form of a table, to show  what  the cost of the
retaining wall would  be. This table shows the work needed in relation to the wall came to a
figure of £35,343  + VAT,  as was based  on the BCIS alterations & refurbishment  price book 
noting this is usually in line with the prices used be small  contactors.
AXA has offered  now offered  a cash settlement of £40,000 to Mr and Mrs M. Which based
on this costed estimate I think is fair to reimburse Mr and Mrs M for the costs AXA should
have paid, in relation  to the wall. The estimate  included considerations for excavation,
building the wall, and allowing for drainage of the wall too. So, I think  this fairly  allows  for the
work noted above to be completed.
The settlement  inclusive of VAT would come to an amount of £42,412.  But the invoices Ive
seen from Mr and Mrs Ms chosen builder on completion of the work (albeit a different
method used), didnt  include  any costs noted for VAT. So, I dont require AXA to pay this.
Unless Mr and Mrs M can provide evidence, they did pay VAT. They would need to
provide an invoice showing the VAT, in order for AXA to pay this.
As above, AXA has also noted  sealing the cattle ventilation holes would need to be
completed. Ive thought about  whether  the £40,000  offered  is also enough to cover the costs
of this, as well as the wall. And I think it is. The figure of building  the wall is £35,343  
leaving £4,657  of additional funds  for the cattle  holes to be sealed. Ive seen information on
the cost of purchasing the materials to apply in the holes   and this came  to around £90, So,
I think its most likely  that purchasing this, and the cost of the labour to apply it, wouldnt
come to more than the £4,657 left over. Given this, Im satisfied the offer of £40,000
settlement offer is fair.
AXA has also noted it needs evidence of the £40,000 spent on the retaining wall, before it
will pay the above. Ive thought about  whether this is necessary. And I dont think  it is.
Mr and Mrs M were  entitled to this sum of money  under their policy,  to put their property in a
pre-loss condition. AXA are aware,  based on the evidence from its civil and structural
engineer, that this would  be the true cost of the work. So, regardless of whether
Mr and Mrs M did this, or what their builder  has said in the past about costs of building  the
wall, it is Mr and Mrs Ms entitlement to receive  the £40,000.
Ref: DRN20117598AXA should  have either completed  the above  work  (retaining wall and cattle holes)  or
provided for these repairs within its cash settlement offer initially. So, I consider it reasonable
for 8% interest to be paid on the above  amount, from the date of loss, to the date of
settlement, less any tax properly deductible. However, Im aware  Mr and Mrs M had to take
out additional lending to do the work  to the outside of the home (including parts AXA should
have already paid for). So, if Mr and Mrs M can provide any information  to show  that the rate
of borrowing  was over the 8% detailed here,  they should provide this to me to consider in
response to this provisional decision.
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs M were  provided with the initial cash settlement for their claim in August 2014.
They have noted they had to pay for alternative  accommodation themselves, between
February 2015 when  AXA stopped paying  for alternative accommodation, and October 2015
when they moved  back home. Ive thought about whether it would be fair to require AXA to
pay further alternative accommodation  costs  in this case. And I think providing  three  months
further alternative accommodation costs  would be reasonable.
I say this because  when Mr and Mrs M were provided with their cash settlement in August
2014 it wasnt enough for them to complete the above works. Mr and Mrs M could have used
the initial cash settlement  to start excavating and building the wall at that point. But I can
understand that Mr and Mrs M would have needed to think carefully about this, seeing  as
those funds were provided  to them for other necessary reinstatement works. So, they would
have needed to make other arrangements to ensure they could pay for the work needed.
Mr and Mrs M re-mortgaged to release  funds.  So, this would have taken time to be sorted.
AXA did think about how long it would take for insured works to be completed, when they
finalised the alternative accommodation payment to Mr and Mrs M. It said that there would
be a likely two-week lead time before building work could start,  four weeks to dry the
property, and a further 16 to complete  the work  needed. But this didnt consider the insured 
costs of rebuilding  the retaining  wall and sealing the cattle ventilation holes. So, I think  it is
reasonable to suggest the work would have taken  longer than AXA originally thought.
Im never going to know exactly how much time this added to the claim. And Mr and Mrs M
would also have needed to live elsewhere, whilst they were undertaking the lengthy
uninsured work too. For example, action to remedy the lack of drainage  installed  in the
building. And because of that, I think a compromise is a reasonable way to settle this
element of the claim  because it recognises the need for AXA to have taken responsibility
for accommodation whilst all the insured works  were  being done. But takes  into account that
a lot of uninsured work was also undertaken before Mr and Mrs M could move back home.
Mr and Mrs Ms alternative accommodation was £950 a month  from what Ive seen
discussed between  the two parties  before. So, this would make  a sum of £2,850  to be paid
by AXA.  Plus, eight  per cent interest, simple per annum, from the date Mr and Mrs M paid
this amount, to the date of settlement, to take into account the time Mr and Mrs M were 
without these funds.
Compensation
Mr and Mrs Ms claim was made in December 2013,  some 6.5 years ago. During this time
there were various times where  the progress of the claim  has been outside of AXAs  control.
Ref: DRN20117599For example, it was unable to move the claim forward to settlement initially,  because of
delays with Mr and Mrs Ms builder being  unavailable to meet  to agree the scope of works.
And, there was a significant amount of time between the cash settlement being provided to
Mr and Mrs M in August 2014,  and them raising their concerns in September  2016. So,
during that time I wouldnt have expected AXA to take any further  action. When
Mr and Mrs M did raise  concerns again in September 2016 AXA did promptly  ask
Mr and Mrs M more  questions to look into the matter   but didnt receive an answer to their
questions until April 2017.
But, as above,  when AXA made  its initial cash settlement  to Mr and Mrs M, it left out a
substantial part of the work  needed to create an effective and lasting repair to the flood
damage. And in doing so, it left Mr and Mrs M in a situation where they knew without
undertaking further work, at their own expense, they were  never going to be able to dry their
property and return to living  in it.
Mr and Mrs M needed to locate the funds to build a retaining wall and close the cattle holes,
to ensure the property was dry. I can see how this would have been  very upsetting,  and
stressful  at a time where Mr and Mrs M had also become aware of other problems that
they would  have needed to self-fund  to remedy.
Part of AXAs obligation as Mr and Mrs Ms insurer, was to provide guidance to them,  in
respect of their claim.  In failing to cover the retaining  wall, and explain how this should  be
built, I think AXA caused substantial inconvenience  to Mr and Mrs M. AXA does say it made
clear to Mr and Mrs M that building a retaining  wall was the way forward  in this scenario. But
I cant see any firm evidence to show me it provided any guidance to Mr and Mrs M on how
to do this, or how much this should cost. If AXA had included the costs for building  a
retaining wall and closing  the cattle  holes, in the original  scope  of works, which  it should
have done, this would have provided  the guidance to Mr and Mrs M that was needed  even
if they were being  provided with a cash settlement, to complete the works themselves.
Mr and Mrs M have  needed to continue raising their concerns about the settlement for a long
time as a result of the above. And this would evidently be distressing, inconvenient  and
draining. Mr and Mrs M needed to borrow money  to sort the insured problems  as well as
the uninsured  ones.  And whilst the total sum they needed to borrow is not because of AXA,
the part it played in the matter would have been distressing for Mr and Mrs M. Mr and Mrs M
no longer live at the address this case concerned  but they are still having to deal with the
loss they suffered as a result  of AXA, some years later.
Because of this, I think it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to provide Mr and Mrs M with
compensation, to recognise the significant  distress they have experienced as a result  of the
handling of their claim, and the inconvenience  this caused to them.  I consider an amount of
£2,000 would fairly take into account the level of distress caused, over the lengthy period of
time.
AXA responded to my provisional decision and agreed with my findings.  It didnt  provide  any 
further information or evidence. 
Mr and Mrs M disagreed. They provided  a further  report from a surveyor  it appointed to 
review the property following AXAs most  recent report. And they raised  a large  number of 
points. I have summarised the central points raised  below. But Id like to reiterate I have 
Ref: DRN201175910considered everything  both parties  have provided  on this case when coming to my final 
decision.
Mr and Mrs M noted that;
They didnt feel a single retaining  wall would have been  enough  to retain the land at 
the back of the property. They  said the pressure of holding  so much land could be a 
problem for a single  wall. Mr and Mrs M said the soil behind the property was liable to 
collapse as there  was a lot of slate in it. And the foundations would have needed to 
be very deep to correctly  build  the wall;
A single wall would be very high,  and they felt that in terms of health and safety this 
may pose a risk;
They were concerned about where  run-off water would drain to;
AXA would have  had difficulty  to get a digger  behind the property in order  to dig out 
all of the retaining land. They  would have  had to seek access  by way of the farmer 
fields behind the property  and this may have proved  problematic.  
When excavating the land behind the barn it was found that the barn was not held up 
properly on its own, and that the land was keeping the barn in place. The building  
would have collapsed  without acting  and they also needed  to render this area to 
ensure it was watertight;
There was a lot of land to dispose  of when excavating it, and Mr and Mrs M didnt 
know whether AXA had taken this into account in its recent costing of works  it said 
were appropriate;
They had made a patio area, terracing the land, because this was the advice  they 
were given,  in light of the above.  And, they wanted a patio  area out the back of the 
property they could sit out on. Mr and Mrs M said they did have a patio before.
They accepted  the alternative accommodation offer,  but didnt agree £950 a month 
was the correct figure to use here.  Mr and Mrs M noted they had needed  to move out 
of this property, because the landlord sold it. So, they had to move elsewhere   and 
this was at a cost of £1,100 per month.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision does remain the same as that noted  in my provisional 
decision, and for the same reasons. So, I havent  detailed this again. But I have carefully  
considered the additional  information provided  and have commented  on what  I consider to 
be key points, below.  
Repair method
Ref: DRN201175911Mr and Mrs Ms responses show they disagree  with the repair  method AXA is now saying 
would have been reasonable. And because of that, they feel the settlement offer provided to 
them should  be increased. So, Ive considered the additional information Ive been  provided 
with in reference to the repair method.
Ultimately Mr and Mrs M feel that a single retaining wall would not have been fit for purpose, 
given its height,  the amount of land it would need  to retain and the lack of access  to the back 
of the property. 
Ive looked at the further report Mr and Mrs M have provided from a structural  engineer. This 
does say;
The construction  of a single retaining  wall would have  presented  practical, safety and 
design problems.
A single wall would have been  significantly higher than either of the existing walls.
It goes on to say the higher wall would have meant it would  have had to be built further  back, 
and the soil either temporarily piled or battered  back. The surveyor  felt this all carried with it 
a risk of collapse, and that this would  be expensive. 
Ive thought carefully about what has been  said here,  as well as what  has been  said by 
Mr and Mrs M. And compared this information  with the report and quotation provided by 
AXA. 
As mentioned in my recent provisional decision, I think AXAs  engineer has given detailed  
consideration to necessary works  based  on its previous site visit, as well as evidence  on 
the soil type in the location. From the quotation  provided to me, Im aware the cash  
settlement offer also includes for the foundations of the wall, and concreting  this in. As well 
as for disposal of the soil that was removed when  excavating the land. 
And from the report AXAs surveyor provided, I can see they did consider  battering  back the 
land  and noted that given the soil type noted by the British Geological  Survey that this 
might be possible. But, in thinking  about  the different options,  the surveyor noted a 
reinforced retaining wall would be most  appropriate in holding  the land back. So, this is what 
it allowed  for when  arriving at the cash settlement figure it is now offering. 
Given this, Im satisfied AXA has offered a fair and reasonable cash settlement, to take into 
account the damage brought  about by the flood, the need for an effective  and lasting repair.
Mr and Mrs M have  highlighted a number of concerns  with the drainage  at the property. And 
they have also explained that when excavating the land,  it was noted that a part of the land 
was retaining the barn, and they had to reinforce, rebuild and render  this part of the wall. 
I dont dispute  this is what Mr and Mrs M found. But I need to differentiate between what is 
covered under Mr and Mrs Ms insurance  policy, and what isnt. AXAs  liability  under the 
insurance policy is to remedy the damage  caused by the flood and ensure the property  could 
be dried. It doesnt need to remedy any further problems than that. And, as detailed  above, 
Im satisfied the offer AXA has now provided is a fair and reasonable offer towards  
remedying the flood  damage and ensuring an effective and lasting repair. So, I wont be 
requiring AXA to increase its offer.
Ref: DRN201175912Mr and Mrs M have  that they also wanted to ensure they had a patio  they could sit out on  
as they had a patio  prior to the flood. I do accept Mr and Mrs M had a patio before  they 
have provided  me with photos of this. But this patio was small, and not comparable to the 
terracing at the property now  so this point doesnt  alter the outcome of this complaint.
One of Mr and Mrs Ms other  concerns  was how AXA would have accessed the back  of the 
property, without purchasing more land.  And they have highlighted that this would rely on 
them gaining access to the neighbouring farm fields. I understand why Mr and Mrs M have 
raised this  they mentioned needing  to negotiate  with the owner of that land in order  to gain 
access that way themselves. But I see no reason  why AXA may not have been able to talk to 
the owner and come  to an agreement on temporary access to facilitate the work needed on 
the footprint  of the land Mr and Mrs M owned. So, I dont think this alters  what would be 
considered a reasonable repair method in this case.
Given the above, I do remain satisfied that AXAs now offer of £40,000 towards external 
work at the property  is fair. 
AXA should  have either completed  the above  work  (retaining wall and cattle holes)  or
provided for these repairs within its cash settlement offer initially. So, I consider it reasonable
for 8% interest to be paid on the above  amount, from the date of loss, to the date of
settlement, less any tax properly deductible. However, Im aware  Mr and Mrs M had to take
out additional lending to do the work  to the outside of the home (including parts AXA should
have already paid for). So, if Mr and Mrs M can provide any information  to show  that the rate
of borrowing  was over the 8% detailed here,  they should provide this to me to consider in
response to this provisional decision.
Alternative accommodation
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to ask AXA to pay for an additional  three months 
of alternative accommodation  for Mr and Mrs M. Neither party disagreed  with this point. 
Except to say, that Mr and Mrs M said they needed to move  from the alternative 
accommodation that had been  costing them £950  a month  because the landlord sold the 
property. And this meant, that instead  of paying  £950 a month, they needed to pay £1,100. 
Im still satisfied it is fair for AXA to pay for three  additional months of alternative 
accommodation. I havent seen any firm evidence of the increased cost Mr and Mrs M paid 
for their alternative accommodation on moving.  So, this should remain  payable  at the rate of 
£950  so £2,850  to be paid in total.  Unless Mr and Mrs M can evidence  the increased cost 
to AXA.  If they can, then AXA should pay for the three months alternative accommodation at 
the rate of £1,100 a month instead.  So, this being £3,300  in total.
my final decision
Given the above, I uphold this complaint. And I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs M;
£40,000 for the cost of building a retaining  wall. If Mr and Mrs M can show they paid 
VAT on this amount, evidence of this should  be provided to AXA.  And if this is 
evidenced, AXA should reimburse  Mr and Mrs M for the VAT costs  on this amount 
too. 
Ref: DRN201175913Eight per cent interest on the above, simple per annum, from the date of loss, to the 
date of settlement,  less any tax properly deductible. If Mr and Mrs M evidence  that 
the rate of borrowing  they took was over 8%, then AXA should pay interest  based  on 
the rate Mr and Mrs M actually paid on their borrowing. 
£2,850 for alternative accommodation. Mr and Mrs M have said the accommodation 
actually cost them £3,300 during this time. So, if Mr and Mrs M can evidence this, 
then AXA should pay that amount instead.  8% interest, simple  per annum should be 
paid on the three months alternative accommodation amount, from the date of loss, 
to the date of settlement, less any tax properly deductible. If Mr and Mrs M can show 
the rate of borrowing  they took was over 8%, then AXA should pay interest  based  on 
the rate Mr and Mrs M actually paid on their borrowing.
£2,000 compensation for the upset and inconvenience experienced. 
If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing this if it asks for one, so it can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2021.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2011759