K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Day Payment  and Forex Limited failed to carry out five money 
transfers and as a result  has lost £5,700.
background
Miss C says she made five money  transfers to Brazil using Day Payment and Forex Limited 
(Day Payment) totalling £5,700. She says the money wasnt  received in the intended 
receiving account  and so would like her money  refunded. Miss C has provided  copies of all 
five receipts.
Day Payment hasnt  responded to Miss Cs complaint  or to any attempts by this service to 
contact it.
Miss C brought  her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
Miss C had provided receipts  of the transfers  and on the basis  of her information and in the 
absence of any contrary information, that the money hadnt been  received as it should have.
The investigator recommended  that Day Payment refund  the payments of £5,700  and pay 
8% simple  interest on the money  from July 2018 until it had been  refunded  to Miss C. The 
investigator also recommended  Day Payment pay Miss C £250 compensation as this was a 
significant loss of her money without an explanation.
Miss C accepts that view but Day Payment hasnt responded  to it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I have seen the receipts of the money transfers  and have  no reason to doubt  what Miss C 
says that the money wasnt received in the intended account. I can see that Day Payment 
hasnt responded  to either Miss C or us. I accept  in those circumstances that Miss C would 
have been caused distress and inconvenience in trying to find out where a substantial  
amount of money  went. And so I agree with the investigators recommendation that 
Day Payment should pay Miss C £250 compensation. Im satisfied that award  is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects what has happened here and the impact  it had on Miss C.
I also find that Day Payment should  refund the money and pay interest on it for the reasons 
Ive explained.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Day Payment and Forex Limited to 
refund the payments of £5,700 and pay simple  interest of 8% from the date of the first 
payment to Miss C on that amount and pay her £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Ref: DRN25594802David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2559480