K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that U K Insurance Limited knew  a third party intended  to claim against 
his car insurance policy but didnt tell him. This affected Mr Cs decision to renew his policy 
with UKI. He said he could have  paid a cheaper premium  for a policy elsewhere. 
background
Mr C was involved in an incident with another driver in October  2018.  UKI as his insurer  was 
dealing with the claim. The claim was still open on 26 January 2019 when Mr Cs policy  was 
due for renewal. UKI told Mr C that it would be able to reduce his premium  and restore his 
No Claims Discount (NCD) during the policy  year if there was no outlay under the claim. 
Mr C said that on this basis,  he renewed his policy with UKI even though he said he could  
buy an alternative policy for less elsewhere.  
UKI accepts  that it knew on 25 January 2019  that the third party intended to make a claim 
against Mr Cs policy. Mr C said that because  UKI didnt tell him, this prevented  him from 
buying a policy elsewhere for less at renewal. Mr C said he was chasing  UKI for an update  
on the claim for two months after it knew it would have a third party outlay  to settle.
In April 2019 UKI upheld Mr Cs complaint. For the distress and inconvenience its poor 
communication had caused, it paid Mr C £150  and £100  for the potential  saving in premium 
elsewhere, so £250 in total. Mr C had provided  quotes from other insurers for up to £700  
less a year  but UKI said they werent  like for like. 
UKI said that it had upheld a complaint Mr C made the year before. It had incorrectly set up 
a telematics box policy in January 2018 which was cheaper. Mr C didnt want a telematics  
box policy. So UKI agreed to replace Mr Cs policy for a standard  policy  - but at the lower 
premium hed paid for a telematics box policy. 
The cheapest quote Mr C had provided in 2019 was for a telematics  policy.  
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought UKI had done enough to put 
things right. 
Mr C didnt agree. He said UKI took until April 2019  to tell him it couldnt  rely on the quotes 
he provided as they werent like for like. This was unfair as by then he couldnt retrieve  the 
quotes hed obtained in January 2019.  The amount  UKI has paid for its mistake isnt enough. 
Mr C believes  UKI should  cover the difference in premium of £700 a year as this is the 
amount hes lost out on as a result of their error.
So Mr C wants  an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that UKI made  a mistake. It failed  to tell Mr C that it knew the third party 
intended to make a claim at the time when Mr C renewed his policy. It processed the 
information a couple of days after the renewal date. 
Ref: DRN22386132So if it had told Mr C at the time,  he could  have cancelled  his policy  with UKI within the 
cooling off period at no charge and bought a policy elsewhere. The remaining issue for me to 
decide is if UKI has done enough to put things right. 
Mr C paid for his policy with UKI on a monthly  basis.  This means the yearly premium  an 
insurer quotes will be higher as it takes  into account interest on the repayments over the 
year. From the renewal in January 2019,  Mr C was paying UKI instalments of £215.91  a 
month (after an initial payment of £215.89).
Mr C provided  UKI with a list of the quotes hed obtained from a comparison website. The 
best quote Mr C received  in January 2019  was for a telematics box policy.  The yearly 
premium was £1,951.36  if Mr C paid in instalments - as he was paying UKI. The next two 
quotes came  in at £2,444.08 and £2,541.99 respectively on the same repayment basis.  The 
second quote was for a specialist insurance  policy. 
The third quote  is within the range of the premium Mr C was paying UKI. In April 2019 UKI 
offered Mr C the option to cancel his policy and it would  waive  its cancellation fee. But Mr C 
rejected UKIs offer as he said he would lose three  months NCD already accrued. 
Mr Cs policy  with UKI wasnt a telematics  box policy.  And the year before, Mr C complained  
as UKI incorrectly set up a telematics policy. So the quote for £1,951.36 isnt comparable to 
the policy Mr C held with UKI in January  2019. Telematics  policies  tend to be cheaper as 
they operate on different  terms and restrictions to a standard  car insurance policy  like the 
one Mr C had with UKI. And the second  quote was for a specialist insurer policy  so 
although not a telematics  policy, its terms and restrictions  wouldnt be comparable with UKIs 
standard car insurance  policy either.
It isnt possible to tell from the quotes if Mr C included the open claim. I know  it isnt Mr Cs fault 
that due to the time that passed, he said he wasnt able to retrieve the details of the quotes.  
But even if the quotes Mr C provided  included  the open claim, based on everything Ive 
seen, I think UKIs compensation of £150 for its poor communication between  January 2019 
and March 2019 and £100  for potential savings  on his premium if hed bought a policy 
elsewhere was enough  to put things right  using the third quote which was for a policy  
similar to Mr Cs. I think this amount - along with the offer to allow  Mr C the option to cancel 
his policy  at no cost in April 2019 was reasonable to resolve his complaint. 
I know Mr C will be disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking UKI to do 
any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238613