K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC have dealt with their mortgage 
account. They said they are starting repossession proceedings for a small amount of arrears 
which has also affected their credit file  which they believe is incorrect.
.
Background
Mr and Mrs A have  several mortgage accounts  with Barclays,  two of which matured  in 2013. 
Mr and Mrs A fell into arrears on these two mortgage accounts after they fell into some 
financial difficulty and Mr and Mrs A have  said they put proposals to Barclays which  were  
always rejected.
Mr and Mrs A said that Barclays have started  repossession proceedings for a very small 
amount that they are in arrears for and dont think this is reasonable. 
They have a number  of complaint points that they are not happy about:
Barclays failed to attend a scheduled court hearing date which  Mr and Mrs A had to 
take time off work for
Barclays failed to send  copies of Mr and Mrs As mortgage  offers
Barclays paid £50 compensation  which Mr and Mrs A found to be derisory
Barclays declined Mr and Mrs As request to add arrears onto a repayment mortgage
Barclays provided incorrect  arrears  information to Mr and Mrs A
Mr and Mrs A would like their credit file to be amended as they believe this is 
incorrect
Mr and Mrs A complained to Barclays who sent out two final response letters. In the one 
dated 28 February 2018, Barclays  explained that the arrears had mounted up as no 
payments were made  in 2012. Barclays  paid £200  compensation  to Mr and Mrs A for 
incorrect information which had been  given to them.
The final response  letter of 22 May 2018 addressed  Mr and Mrs As concerns about the 
hearing being adjourned and not being  able to provide the original mortgage  offer to 
Mr and Mrs A. Barclays said that as Mr and Mrs A had two mortgage accounts  that had 
matured, they were not obliged to offer any options after maturity  and they wanted  the 
balance to be repaid.
Mr and Mrs A were  not happy  with what Barclays said so they brought  their complaint  to our 
service where it was looked  at by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought  that 
Barclays could have  done more. She said Barclays should pay an additional £150 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs A. She said 
Barclays should ensure that Mr and Mrs As credit files are reviewed to ensure no adverse 
information is showing if it was recorded more than six years  ago. She also thought  that 
Barclays should discuss a repayment plan with Mr and Mrs A or discuss options  for 
Mr and Mrs A to sell their buy to let property instead.
Barclays agreed to paying  £150  compensation but disagreed with the other 
recommendations. They said that the two mortgage accounts matured on 31 March  2013 
and 31 May 2013  and they were aware  that Mr and Mrs A offered to clear the balances on 
these loans over the remaining term of their mortgage  around 15 years. But they said if 
they were to look at a plan outside of policy, they would only consider two years  maximum. 
Ref: DRN21086072They said they discussed these options with Mr and Mrs A over three years ago, so these  
options would not be available now. They also became aware  in 2017 that Mr and Mrs A had 
buy to let properties and as these  were assets,  they thought these could be sold to pay back 
the outstanding balance.
Barclays said the option of a repayment plan would not be considered because of the 
amount of time since  the loans  had matured and they thought the best solution  was for 
Mr and Mrs A to sell one of their properties  to repay the debt. They said due to the current 
Covid-19 situation,  they are aware this could  take a bit longer so if Mr and Mrs A could 
provide the necessary documentation  to show their willingness to sell their property, they 
may be able to give them some additional time to do this. However,  they made it clear that if 
senior stakeholders  within the bank didnt accept  this, litigation proceedings may be the only 
option.
Our investigator made  Mr and Mrs A aware of this who responded with further  comments. 
Mr and Mrs A said there were a number of issues that were still not resolved. They  said:
The exact amount  outstanding is clearly calculated
Their updated  credit file will provide them  with options to re-mortgage  elsewhere
Barclays should consider the option of them  making a cash  offer to repay the 
correctly calculated arrears
Mr and Mrs A made it clear that the sale of one of their buy to let properties was not an 
option.
Our investigator heard back from Barclays after she made them aware of this and they said 
they would  only accept full payment of the mortgage balance and the arrears and a payment  
just to clear the arrears  would not be acceptable. Barclays  also said what they are reporting 
on Mr and Mrs As credit  file was correct.
Our investigator explained this to Mr and Mrs A who said they were not happy with what  
Barclays had said. Mr and Mrs A still think  that what Barclays is recording on their credit  file 
is wrong. Mr and Mrs A said that this inaccurate and unacceptable behaviour is obstructing 
them from moving their mortgage elsewhere.
Mr and Mrs A also had concerns that the amount outstanding  on their mortgage  statement 
for their main  mortgage was different to what was showing on their credit file. They thought 
this was incorrect and also having an impact.
They asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so it has been  passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 13 January 2021. I said:
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There have been  some further  developments since our investigator sent her opinion 
to Mr and Mrs A which I will go on to explain below.
Ref: DRN21086073Mr and Mrs As credit  files
Mr and Mrs A still had concerns over their credit files.
We asked Barclays about this again  and they have since informed us that they 
amended Mr and Mrs As credit files. We asked Barclays what they were  incorrectly  
reporting, and they told us they were previously  reporting the entire  mortgage  and all 
the smaller home improvement loans as being in arrears which  wasnt  correct. They 
have now said they are reporting  the account  as being up to date as one balance, 
even though the two home  improvement loans have  matured. They have sent us 
screen shots which show this. They said that all arrears information has been 
removed from September  2016 onwards. 
Mr and Mrs A have  given me details  of their credit  score  after these changes were  
made and their score appears to be much  higher,  so it seems this has now been 
resolved.
Mr and Mrs A also have  concerns that their credit  files are showing an incorrect  
balance for their main  mortgage. Mr and Mrs A have  said they have received 
mortgage statements  which show a balance of around £217,000 but their credit 
reports are showing a balance of around  £232,000. We have asked Barclays to 
explain to us why this is, as the information we have  been given shows the main 
mortgage balance  to be around £217,000. They said that the amount  they report  to 
the Credit Reference  Agency (CRA)  is the sum of the main  mortgage account plus 
the four additional home improvement loans which includes  the two loans that have 
already matured  and that the amount  is correct.  Based on the figures Barclays 
gave us for the outstanding balances  on all of their loans  this appears to be correct.
Repossession proceedings and moving  mortgage  to another lender
Mr and Mrs A have  now paid off the arrears that were outstanding on their smaller 
mortgage accounts which ended in 2013 and Barclays  have  confirmed that this is the 
case. However, the two smaller loans, which matured in March  and May 2013, are 
still outstanding.  
We asked Barclays for up to date balances on these  accounts and they told us that in 
October 2020, the balances were £5,680.77 (matured March  2013) and £6,592.08 
(matured May 2013).
Due to Covid-19, Barclays have held off repossession proceedings and havent taken 
any further action  at the moment. Mr and Mrs A have said they are not willing to sell 
any of their buy to let properties  now in order to pay the loans off and they would like 
to be able to either mortgage elsewhere  or come to an agreement with Barclays.
Ref: DRN21086074I think there have been some discussions with Barclays  to try and come to an 
agreement, but it doesnt  appear that anything has been discussed more recently. 
Mr and Mrs A have  been unhappy  with how everything has been handled and they 
feel that they cant remortgage  to another lender because of their credit files. 
Mr and Mrs A have  sent us screenshots of their credit scores before Barclays 
amended what they were  reporting, Mr and Mrs As credit scores were  very poor. 
They have significantly increased  now to excellent scores since the changes  have 
been made. I think that because Barclays were incorrectly reporting to the CRA,  this 
has had an impact on Mr and Mrs As credit ratings which has meant they may have 
found it difficult to remortgage  elsewhere.  
Mr and Mrs A have  told us that they applied for a remortgage with another lender in 
April 2019 which was unsuccessful. Even though  there is no firm evidence  that this 
was to do with the credit  scores, I believe  that having a poor credit  score,  which is 
what Mr and Mrs A had at the time  would not have worked in their favour. But there  
are also other various factors that lenders take into account, including affordability 
and a borrowers specific circumstances, when deciding whether to lend and on what 
terms.
I note that arrears were  still outstanding on the two smaller mortgage accounts  and 
this could have  made  it difficult  to remortgage elsewhere and affected the credit 
score at the time as well. The fact that the arrears have now been  paid off should 
make this much easier. I cant therefore  say that the way Barclays  were  reporting on 
the credit  files was the only reason why Mr and Mrs A were not able to remortgage.  
Extension of the mortgage term
There are call notes which Barclays have sent us which  suggest  that Barclays were 
thinking of extending the terms of the smaller  loans which matured, on the basis that 
the arrears were cleared, and that Mr and Mrs A would need  to provide Barclays  with 
details of their longer-term plans to repay  the outstanding balances.  I can see from 
the notes that Mr and Mrs A have always said they had buy to let properties  that they 
could sell  and there are notes where Barclays have indicated  what  equity would be 
remaining in those properties that could  be used. But Barclays  suggested  that 
Mr and Mrs A should sell their properties  in order to pay off the balances  which  were 
outstanding. 
Mr and Mrs As main  mortgage matures on 31 October 2027 along  with two other 
smaller loans. The main mortgage balance is around £217,000. We asked Barclays  if 
they would  consider or if they have considered extending the terms of the two 
matured loans to match the main loan  which would mean their new maturity date 
would be October 2027.
Barclays said they cannot agree to extend  the terms of a product that expired more 
than seven years ago, as it is against  their policy and they would not make an 
exception in this case. 
Ref: DRN21086075They said that Mr and Mrs A, once a decision was made  by our service,  could  
contact them  to discuss the situation  or get independent advice on refinancing. They  
said a new product could then be agreed through a remortgage.  They said they 
would need to understand Mr and Mrs As current circumstances  including an 
affordability assessment.  They said if there are other assets such  as their buy to let 
properties that could be used to redeem the balances, they would expect these to be 
used before proposing any further stay of action.
I have thought very carefully about  what Barclays have  said and I appreciate that 
there are two mortgage accounts here where  the contracts have ended  so Barclays  
have the right to ask for the outstanding  balances to be repaid. 
However, there are other considerations here. Barclays  have to follow  rules  set by 
the regulator and, in Mr and Mrs As situation, that includes  considering  extending 
their mortgage term without regard to the normal rules on interest-only repayment 
strategy where doing so is in Mr and Mrs As best interests. I think its in 
Mr and Mrs As best interests to extend  the terms on the two expired mortgages. 
Mr and Mrs A have  properties they can sell by October 2027 which will pay these 
balances off and I dont think requiring them to sell one of the properties now is fair, 
in order to pay a small  balance outstanding. The loans where the terms have  ended, 
are very small in comparison to the amount that is outstanding on the main  mortgage 
itself. And I do understand why Mr and Mrs A may not want to sell one of their 
properties now in order to pay off such a small amount. From what  they have said, 
they will sell these properties nearer  to 2027,  which seems to be a credible plan.
Having considered the matter very carefully,  and in all the circumstances, I think  the 
fair outcome would be for these two loans to be extended until October 2027  the 
same as the main mortgage. And from what Mr and Mrs A have  told us, it appears  
they would  be able to afford these payments 
Mr and Mrs A should however be aware that this will mean  they will pay more 
interest, for longer, than if they sold their buy to let property  now. 
Mortgage offer, incorrect information given and court attendance
Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy that Barclays were unable to provide them  with copies 
of their mortgage offer. Mr and Mrs A wrote  to the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) about this who then responded to Mr and Mrs A with their findings. From what I 
can see from the notes  that Barclays have supplied,  they didnt think they could 
obtain copies  of the mortgage offers due to the passage of time. But it seems after 
some time, they were able to provide this information to Mr and Mrs A. I dont think 
Barclays held these  back on purpose  or to make things difficult, however I do think it 
would have made things easier if they supplied this to Mr and Mrs A when they 
initially asked for it to be sent. 
Mr and Mrs A were  also unhappy that Barclays gave them incorrect  information 
regarding the amount  of arrears that was originally outstanding on their mortgage. I 
can see that Barclays acknowledged that this was the case and apologised for this. 
They paid £200 to Mr and Mrs A for the incorrect information given and I think  this 
amount was sufficient.  I therefore wont be asking Barclays to pay any more  with 
regards to this specific  matter.
Ref: DRN21086076With regards to the court hearing, Mr and Mrs A said they took a day off work to 
attend a court hearing which incurred significant cost to them.  They said Barclays 
failed to attend due to a failure in their internal process between  Barclays solicitors  
and Barclays themselves.
Barclays said that they adjourned the hearing  because there was an ongoing 
complaint in addition to a mix up internally. They also said the judge  agreed that the 
hearing could  be adjourned,  and they said they didnt have to inform Mr and Mrs A of 
this. Mr and Mrs A have said this situation  has caused them a lot of stress and them 
having to go to court when they didnt need to would have added to this. 
Had Barclays informed Mr and Mrs A that the court  hearing had been  adjourned, it 
would have prevented Mr and Mrs A from taking time off work unnecessarily   and 
this seems like it could  have been avoided. Barclays paid £50 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs A, but our investigator asked them to pay a further £150 as she didnt 
think this was enough. Barclays agreed to this. 
I dont however think that this amount is sufficient. I say this as Mr and Mrs A had to 
take time off work to attend the hearing, in addition to stress that they have been 
caused because  this matter was taken  to court. I think it could have been dealt with 
much sooner  had Barclays done something  different.  I think  they could  have explored  
in more detail,  much earlier on, about  trying to extend the terms of the loans that had 
expired. I dont think, when looking at the bigger  picture, that going  to court  was the 
fairest thing  to do here, especially when considering the amount of the loans that 
were outstanding against the mortgage that was already in place until October  2027.
Overall, I think Barclays could have dealt with things better. I appreciate they agreed 
to increase the compensation to £150 however, I think this needs to be increased to 
£500 for the trouble and upset this has caused Mr and Mrs A. This includes the time 
they have taken to prepare their own side of the story before going to court as well as 
the unnecessary  stress of Barclays taking matters  to court, when  I do feel that things 
could have been handled differently. Mr and Mrs A have said this situation has 
caused them  a great deal of stress  which needs to be taken into consideration.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision, subject to any further comments  made by either party, is that 
this complaint against Barclays Bank  UK PLC should be upheld  for the reasons given 
above.
In settlement  of the matter I plan to direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to extend the terms 
of the two matured  loans  (March and May 2013), on the original mortgage product, of 
Mr and Mrs As mortgage, so they end on the same  date as the main mortgage  in 
October 2027.
They should  also pay £350 compensation in addition to the £150 which has been  
agreed  making  this £500 in total for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs A.
Ref: DRN21086077Developments
Both Barclays and Mr and Mrs A responded to my provisional decision. Barclays said they 
didnt have anything  further to add.
Mr and Mrs A said they were happy with the contents of the provisional decision but would 
like Barclays to send them mortgage  redemption figures for all of the accounts  they hold with 
them. Our investigator has written to Barclays asking  them  to provide  this information.
As both parties accepted the provision decision,  I have nothing  further  to add on this matter.
My final decision  
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Barclays  Bank  UK PLC to:
Extend the terms of the two matured  loans (March and May 2013), on the original 
mortgage product,  of Mr and Mrs As mortgage,  so they end on the same date as the 
main mortgage in October 2027.
Pay £350 compensation in addition to the £150 which  has been agreed  making this 
£500 in total for the trouble and upset  caused  to Mr and Mrs A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2108607