K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as CASH4UNOW.CO.UK)  lent him money that 
he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr S took out two loans with CASH4UNOW in March and September 2014. The loans were 
for £300 and £500 and were each  repayable  in three  monthly instalments.
Mr S says he was caught in a spiral of debt,  using one payday  lender to repay another.  Mr S 
says he was gambling heavily and eventually  entered into a debt management plan. 
CASH4UNOW says that Mr S told it that his net monthly income was £1700  with regular 
monthly outgoings £519.
CASH4UNOW says it carried out adequate checks and provided  details  of the information it 
received. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ss complaint be upheld.  He thought that 
CASH4UNOWs checks went far enough before agreeing the loans.  The adjudicator thought  
that based on the information Mr S gave,  both loans appeared affordable. He didnt think that 
further checks that may have revealed  Mr Ss difficulties were proportionate. 
Mr S is unhappy with the adjudicators recommendation.  He says that a check of his bank 
statements would have  revealed the difficulty he was in. Mr S has said that a number  of 
other short term loan complaints  he has made  have been upheld  by this service  and this 
complaint is the same.  He says that he was forced  to make repayments and the lender has 
been unsympathetic.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before agreeing to lend to Mr S, CASH4UNOW had to make  sure that he could afford to 
repay the loan.  Affordability checks should  be proportionate. What is proportionate  depends  
on things like  but not limited  to  the size of the loan,  the repayments,  what  CASH4UNOW 
knew about Mr S, and the things he told it about  his circumstances.
It was early on in Mr Ss lending history  with CASH4UNOW and the monthly repayments 
represented a very modest proportion of his declared monthly income of £1700. Taking his 
declared outgoings into account he had around  £1200 disposable income  to make the 
repayments of £167  on the first loan and £279 on the second  loan. Usually  I would have said 
that it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW  to rely on Mr Ss income figure alone to decide to 
lend. However, CASH4UNOW also carried out credit checks that revealed outstanding loan 
and credit card balances.
CASH4UNOW asked Mr S for details of his living costs  and credit  commitments. The credit 
commitment figures that CASH4UNOW says Mr S declared dont seem  at odds with the 
credit search results. 
Ref: DRN29155452There wasnt any evidence of late or missing payments  on the credit search and no 
suggestion that Mr S was over committed. I consider  it was reasonable of CASH4UNOW to 
have a degree of confidence that Mr S had given it accurate financial information. I wouldnt 
have expected CASH4UNOW  to go as far as trying to independently verify the financial 
information that Mr S gave by asking to see bank  statements for example. 
Overall, I think CASH4UNOW did enough  to assess whether the loans were affordable. 
Although Mr Ss true financial situation  was worse than he declared  to CASH4UNOW, I dont 
think what I consider was a proportionate check wouldve revealed this.
Based on what it knew about Mr S, I cant find CASH4UNOW was wrong to agree either of 
the loans. It follows  that I dont require it to pay compensation or remove  any information 
about the loan from Mr Ss credit file. Im sorry that this is likely to come as a disappointment 
and I dont doubt that Mr S was in difficulty. But I cant say that this should have been 
evident to the business  given the information  he provided and the credit check  carried  out.
I cant comment on other complaints Mr S may have  made and each case is different so I 
cant agree  that the complaint should  be upheld because of similar cases.  
I would expect the business to treat Mr L positively and sympathetically  when he advised of 
financial difficulties. I can see that Mr L did make additional payments and cleared his loan in 
full and on time. I havent seen any evidence that Mr L was forced to make  payments  or that 
he has complained  about this aspect  to the business  so I cant make  any decision about  this 
as part of this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2915545