K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt provide the service it should have when she 
wished to apply  for an overdraft and that it acted  in a discriminatory way by not assessing 
her application  on affordability grounds. 
background
Ms M says that Lloyds took over 49 minutes to answer her call and so she requested a call 
back with a manager. A call back was arranged and she was told the application process 
would take 20 minutes.  Ms M says the call back didnt take place until an hour later at which 
point she was asked  to confirm her income.  She said that as soon as she said her income 
was solely  from benefits her application  was stopped and she was told she didnt quality for 
an overdraft.
Ms M says that she owns her own home,  has a regular income, and a good credit  rating  but 
none of this was taken  into account. She says that other applicants  who are not solely reliant 
on benefits are assessed on affordability and that refusing her application because she is 
solely reliant on benefits is unfair and discriminatory.  She says that having visited  a branch 
she was told that she was a low risk customer and that she had documentation showing she 
was eligible for a credit card and overdraft. She says that her application  was therefore not 
refused because of credit  worthiness concerns but solely because of her income  source. 
She says she cant work due to her disability and so her income is from benefits and she 
shouldnt be discriminated again  because  of this.
Lloyds says that its criteria for an overdraft  is that the applicant  must be in receipt  of either  
income from an employer  or a pension in addition to their benefit payments. It says the 
income source is identified at the start of the call and determines  whether or not the 
application can proceed. It says if the criteria isnt met no further questions about the 
customers circumstances will be asked.
Lloyds says that it accepted Ms M didnt receive the service she should  have when  she was 
told she would receive a call back within 10 minutes  and this didnt happen.  Because  of this 
it paid her £20 compensation.
Our adjudicator noted the time Ms M had been  on hold and her comments about the call 
back and thought the £20 compensation  Lloyds paid was reasonable.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree that Lloyds had a blanket ban on potential applicants  that are 
in receipt of benefits. She said that it wasnt because  Ms M was in receipt of benefits that 
she couldnt apply  but because she didnt  have an acceptable form of income.  She said that 
because this was assessed at the start further  affordability checks didnt take place.
Ms M didnt accept our adjudicators view.  She said that a person in receipt of employment 
and support allowance (ESA) couldnt have  another form of income  as if they did they 
wouldnt be entitled to the benefit. She said that the approach  taken by Lloyds was a 
blanket ban because  she couldnt have other income and receive her benefits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN28454612There are two parts to this complaint. The first regards the service Ms M received when  she 
called to make an overdraft application. The second  is Ms Ms complaint that she has been 
discriminated against as her only income  is from benefits.
I have listened  to the calls provided  and understand why Ms M is upset that she was put on 
hold and that the call back didnt happen  when she expected. Lloyds paid her £20 because 
of the service she received. I appreciate that Ms M doesnt think  this is enough to cover  the 
inconvenience and service she received. However, on balance  I think  that this is sufficient to 
cover the upset caused.
Ms M complains that she has been  discriminated against because she cannot work and so 
she is solely reliant on benefits in the form of disability benefits. It is not my role to determine  
whether discrimination  has occurred but instead  to decide whether or not Ms M has been  
treated fairly. In assessing  this I have paid particular attention to the issues  Ms M has raised 
in regard to the Equality Act 2010.
The Equality  Act says that people with protected characteristics must not be discriminated  
against and sets out the various  ways in which discrimination can occur.  It sets out a number  
of protected  characteristics  which include  disability.
Ms M explained that she receives disability benefits.  She says she has a regular income and 
that Lloyds lending criteria discriminates against  her because it didnt carry out any 
affordability assessment  but instead  stopped her application because her income was solely  
from benefits. 
Lloyds has explained  that as Ms M didnt have  the required income additional to her benefits 
it didnt meet their lending  criteria  and because of this is didnt continue  her application and 
assess her personal circumstances.
While I note Ms Ms comments and understand why she is upset, the reason her application 
wasnt progressed was not because she received benefits for disability but because  she 
didnt receive any of the other additional  forms of income that would  have allowed her 
application to be assessed further.  I note Ms M wanted further details of the lending  criteria 
but as has been explained  this is confidential.
My role isnt to say whether Lloyds  lending criteria  is correct but I can comment  on whether  
it has been applied  fairly. In this case I can see that Lloyds applied  its standard  process 
when assessing  Ms Ms request and so I dont find that I can say Lloyds has done anything 
wrong in regard to this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC is not required to do anything further in response 
to this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019. 
Jane Archer
Ref: DRN28454613ombudsman
Ref: DRN2845461