K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) did not pay compensation for 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) directly to him. 
Mr S is represented by Mrs S. 
background
I have issued two provisional decisions in this matter.  The second provisional  decision is 
attached below, and it forms part of my final decision. In that second provisional  decision, I 
set out why I was minded to uphold  the complaint and require RBS to pay back  to Mr S what 
he had paid for the PPI, along with 8% interest. 
Through his representative, Mr S indicated he agreed with my decision. 
RBS requested further information about the priority debts I referred to in my provisional 
decision and further information about this was provided. RBS then offered to settle the 
complaint by way of a goodwill gesture in line with my provisional decision. However, it did 
not agree  to recalculate the 8% simple interest  up to the date it was received by Mr S. It 
reiterated its position that Mr S had still benefitted  from funds that he would not now repay. 
In its response,  RBS expressed disappointment  that it had not been provided with actual 
copies of the bills I had relied upon in my provisional  decision.  I am satisfied that all of the 
relevant information  was provided to RBS both in my provisional decision and in the follow 
up correspondence. Nevertheless, permission was obtained from Mr S to share those 
documents and RBS was given further  time to respond.  No further response was received. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am again grateful to the parties for their 
patience while I have  further reviewed this case.  
Having done so, I have decided to uphold the complaint  for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. 
I have thought carefully about what RBS said in relation to recalculating  the 8% interest 
payment. I agree  with RBS that up to the point it was calculated  previously, the amount of 
interest would  have been correct. 
However, the reason I said RBS had to pay interest was to put Mr S in the position  he would 
have been in if things had happened  as they should. I have decided that, in light of Mr Ss 
circumstances, RBS should not have  offset the compensation  and should  have paid it 
directly to him. Mr S hasnt had use of that PPI compensation  and he wont  be able to use it 
up until the day it is paid.  That means  he will have been out of pocket up to the date the 
compensation is paid to him. The 8% simple  interest  is to compensate  him for the time he 
has been out of pocket.  And so that is why RBS must  calculate  it up to the date Mr S gets it 
back. 
putting things right 
Ref: DRN29489572Mr S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loans  were  bigger than they should have 
been. That means Mr S paid more than he should have each month. Mr S needs to get back 
the extra he has paid.  For loan 5, there is an outstanding balance. So in respect of that loan, 
Mr S will have paid for some of the PPI policy, but not all of it. RBS will need to make sure 
that it refunds  to Mr S what he did pay towards  that PPI policy, along  with anything that was 
carried forward in respect of PPI from his previous  borrowing.  But it doesnt need to pay 
Mr S the money he borrowed for the PPI premium with loan 5 but didnt repay.
RBS must now:
a)Work  out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month for the PPI 
(including any unpaid  PPI that was rolled  over from his earlier loans)  and what  he 
would have paid each month  if he hadnt had PPI with any loan;
b)Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
c)As set out above, RBS has already repaid £766.91 to Mr S to cover some  mortgage 
arrears. It can deduct this amount from the amount it now owes.  If Mr S made a 
successful claim  under the PPI policy, RBS can take off what he got for the claim 
under the PPI policy from the amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. Mr S may be able to 
reclaim this tax. 
my final decision
I have upheld this complaint and I require The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to comply with the 
above putting things right  section.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
My second provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) did not pay compensation  for 
mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) directly to him. 
Mr S is represented  by Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN29489573background
In December 2019, I issued a provisional  decision in this matter. That provisional decision is attached 
and so I wont  recite the background again. I am grateful to the parties for their patience while I have 
reconsidered this case. 
As is set out in my first provisional decision, Mr S granted a trust deed to his creditors. I said 
previously that five of Mr Ss RBS accounts had been included in that trust deed. I am grateful to RBS 
for making it clear that the trust deed Mr S granted included only two of its accounts  one loan 
account and a current  account.  
Since that provisional decision was issued, I have had the benefit of receiving  considerably more  
information in respect of Mr Ss personal  circumstances. 
It is enough for me to say in this decision that in 2012,  Mr S suffered a significant injury, which  
affected his ability to manage his day to day needs.  Following that injury, he could no longer 
undertake his usual job. Despite that, his recovery was such that he was able to return to some  form 
of work   and he did so. 
However, in 2014, Mr S was assaulted, and the effects of his injury recurred.  Mr S has not recovered 
to the same degree as he did previously. He continues to suffer from ongoing neurological symptoms, 
which are debilitating. He can no longer  work and he requires ongoing care.  Mrs S provides  that care 
and as such,  she had to sell her business and leave her job. They  now rely financially on sickness 
and carers benefits.  Mr S also receives  disability  benefits and the rate he is paid indicates  a severe 
disability. I accept what  Mrs S said when  she told me that Mr S will not be able to work again. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs S reiterated  that RBS told her that Mr S would receive the 
PPI compensation on three occasions.  She says they were told the cheque  was in the post  on one 
of those occasions.  In light of that assurance, Mrs S told me that Mr S borrowed money from friends 
and family with a view to paying them back when he received the PPI compensation. However,  it 
transpired that the compensation  had not been sent to Mr S, but had been offset against an 
outstanding balance. 
When the payment  was offset against what Mr S owed  RBS, he was unable to repay what he had 
borrowed from those close to him. Mrs S believes that this has affected a long-term childhood 
friendship. 
The parties  told me that since my provisional  decision was issued, RBS actually paid some of the PPI 
compensation to Mr S because his mortgage had fallen  into arrears. I understand the amount  paid 
was £766.91. In addition to those mortgage arrears, I have also been  provided with evidence as to a 
significant priority debt. I can see that Mr and Mrs S were sent a notice  from their utility company 
threatening to disconnect their supply. The outstanding balance exceeds £600.   
Upon receipt  of the further information Mrs S provided to us, this service contacted RBS again. 
However, it did not agree that it would  be fair to pay PPI compensation directly  to Mr S. It accepted 
that it incorrectly advised  Mr S that the compensation would be paid directly to him, but that Mr S had 
already accepted a compensatory payment of £25 to settle that matter.  It reiterated that its 
correspondence prior to that telephone call indicated  that the compensation  would  be offset against 
any arrears  that were owing on his accounts. 
RBS said that it may be willing  to send further funds to Mr S in addition to those already provided for 
his mortgage arrears.  It said that in order to do so, it would  require evidence of further priority debts 
before it would consider paying Mr S the rest directly. 
Ref: DRN29489574my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I now propose  to uphold  this complaint.  
The parties  agree that PPI was mis-sold to Mr S and so what  I need to consider is to where the 
resulting compensation  should be paid. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, there have been some  court cases about to whom  PPI 
compensation should be paid when a consumer  has been discharged from a protected  trust deed.  
For ease  of reference,  I set out again  what was said in those  cases. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom considered the 
effect of a discharged  trust deed following a final distribution by the trustee. In that case, the 
discharge was held to terminate the trust which  meant that any unrealised assets were returned to the 
debtor  including the PPI compensation  that no one had known  about at the time.  In other words,  
the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees. It said it should 
be paid to the consumer.
In Royal Bank of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019]  CSIH 56, the debtor  who didnt realise she had a 
PPI complaint until after the trust deed ended  had agreed to an offer of PPI compensation. The 
creditor wanted to use it to pay down the amount  that wasnt repaid after the trust deed  ended. The 
court said it couldnt do this: when  the trust deed  ended the debtor was discharged from her debts, so 
there was no longer any debt owing  from her to the bank which could be subject to set-off. RBS 
appealed this decision to the Inner House of the Court of Session. The appeal  was heard in 
November 2019 and RBS lost the appeal. It is now appealing the decision to the Supreme  Court  so 
there is a possibility that the outcome may change.
So what the caselaw  effectively  says is that the PPI compensation should be paid directly to Mr S. In 
my provisional  decision, I set out how Id taken account of what  the caselaw said. But at that stage, I 
didnt think it was fair that the compensation should be paid to Mr S when  he owed RBS more  money  
than he had paid back.
What I set out in my provisional decision  was our general  approach to cases like this. But that is not 
necessarily an approach  that fits all. There  will be some cases in which  our general approach is not 
the right approach. And in my current view,  this is one of those cases.
I say this because: 
RBS recognises  Mr S is in real financial difficulties.  It has already agreed to refund  some of 
the PPI compensation to him to cover his mortgage arrears. It says it would be willing to 
assist further if it was provided with evidence that Mr S has other priority debts. It is clear  from 
the evidence I have seen that Mr S has other priority debts  and hes borrowing  money from 
friends and family  just to make  ends meet.  For the reasons I have set out above,  I think  it is 
very unlikely  that his financial situation will improve.
RBS told Mr S that the compensation would be paid directly to him. In direct  consequence of 
that promise, Mr S borrowed money from family  and friends,  which he now cannot pay back. I 
can see that the acceptance form RBS sent Mr S did indicate that it would keep his 
compensation to reduce any unpaid  debt if he had been  insolvent and it sent a text message 
to that effect shortly afterwards. However,  taking account of his disability, I cant say how 
much of that information  would  have been clear to Mr S. And in any event, and more 
significantly, what RBS said in the telephone call came after the acceptance form and text 
message.
Ref: DRN29489575Unless and until the Supreme Court reverses the decision of the Inner House, and on the 
assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as those  in this 
case, then RBS could not, in court,  successfully  plead set-off in this case. In other words, I 
think Mr S may well receive the compensation directly if he pursued this matter in court. 
However, in light of his circumstances  as set out above, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
expect or require Mr S to do this. I think it would be more  difficult  for him to issue proceedings 
in light of his disability  and cause Mr S and Mrs S significant distress and inconvenience. 
And, crucially, his financial  need is pressing.
In arriving at this provisional view, I have very much  considered the situation in the round.  Putting all 
of the above factors together and in the particular  circumstances of this case, I dont  think  it would be 
fair for RBS to keep  the money Mr S has paid for PPI to reduce his unpaid debt.
I now propose to uphold the complaint. I intend to tell RBS to take action to put things right for Mr S as 
set out below.  
putting things  right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loans were bigger than they should have been.  That 
means Mr S paid more  than he should have each  month. Mr S needs to get back the extra  he has 
paid. For loan 5, there is an outstanding balance. So in respect of that loan, Mr S will have paid for 
some of the PPI policy,  but not all of it. RBS will need to make sure that it refunds to Mr S what  he did 
pay towards that PPI policy, along  with anything that was carried forward in respect of PPI from his 
previous borrowing. But it doesnt need to pay Mr S the money  he borrowed for PPI but didnt repay.
So, I intend to tell RBS to:
d)Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month for the PPI 
(including any unpaid PPI that was rolled  over from his earlier loans)   and what he would have 
paid each  month if he hadnt had PPI with any loan;
e)Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
f)As set out above,  RBS has already repaid £766.91 to Mr S to cover some mortgage arrears. 
It can deduct  this amount from the amount it now owes. If Mr S made  a successful claim  
under the PPI policy, RBS can take off what he got for the claim under  the PPI policy from the 
amount it owes him. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  RBS to take off tax from this interest.  RBS must  give Mr S a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. Mr S may be able to reclaim this tax. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I intend to uphold this complaint. I now invite the parties  to provide me 
with any additional information they want me to consider by 16 April 2020.  After this date,  I will issue a 
final decision.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29489576
Ref: DRN2948957