K821x#15complaint
Mr Is complained that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC unfairly refused to pay a 
claim on his mechanical breakdown insurance policy. 
background
Mr I took his van to the garage on 26 July 2018 for a service and health check. The garage 
called Amtrust to find out if Mr Is claim was covered. It said some  warning  lights were on 
and the van needed a number of repairs. Amtrust said the garage  would need to determine  
the cause of the failures before it would authorise  repairs.
On 8 August  Amtrust authorised repairs for cylinder injectors, seals, clamps  and labour  but 
declined the claim  for the flywheel and associated  parts as it said that was due to wear and 
tear. On 17 August the garage let Amtrust know that the engine now needed replacing as 
the engine was still knocking. 
Amtrust appointed an engineer to inspect  Mr Is van. The engineer  concluded the cylinder  
bore was damaged. And while he said he couldnt  accurately establish what  had caused  the 
damage, it was usually  due to a failed  injector and drive on damage.
Amtrust asked Mr I for more details about  what had happened after he first took the van into 
the garage. Based on that conversation Amtrust  said the engine management light (EML) 
was on for 11 days before  Mr I took his van for a service and he drove  400 miles during that 
time. It said the EML was lit due to an injector  fault and the continued use had damaged the 
cylinder bores. Amtrust said the policy excluded cover for damage  caused by continued use 
after a fault occurs.  It also said it didnt cover damage caused by abuse,  neglect or over 
loading the vehicle. Amtrust said it would pay for the damage to the injectors but not the 
replacement engine as that had been caused  by Mr I continuing to drive  his van.
Mr I was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He said hed taken his van to the 
garage on the earliest available  date and they thought there  was a problem with the 
gearbox. As they couldnt  carry  out repairs on that date he said they told him it was safe to 
continue driving  and booked him in for 3 August. He said there was no evidence that the 
drive on damage was there before he took his van to the garage  on 26 July as the garage 
hadnt noticed it.
Mr I also complained that Amtrust hadnt paid him VAT for the injector and he cant  claim 
that back as he isnt VAT registered. Amtrust said the dealer had confirmed Mr I was VAT 
registered when  it set up the policy, so didnt think it needed to pay VAT on the repairs.  
Our investigator thought Amtrust had fairly  turned down Mr Is claim in line with the terms 
and conditions in the policy. She didnt think shed seen enough to show that Mr I wasnt 
VAT registered, so didnt  think Amtrust  needed to pay VAT on the repairs.  
While we were  looking  into things our investigator asked Mr I about  the company name on 
his policy. He said the policy was in his personal  name and the company named on the 
policy was the one that arranged the finance  for him. I looked into things and didnt  think  
there was any evidence to suggest  Mr I was VAT registered. So, our investigator let Amtrust  
know that I intended to tell it to refund Mr I for the VAT on the repairs it had authorised  plus 
interest at 8% simple  per year.
Ref: DRN20020412Amtrust agreed to pay VAT but didnt think it should pay interest. It said it was only able to 
rely on the information it had at the time and hadnt had any communication since. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is policy  covers the mechanical and electrical components of his van against breakdown. 
The terms and conditions  of the policy say Mr I isnt covered for any damaged  caused by 
continued use after the fault occurs. 
Ive seen Amtrusts claim notes and these say Mr I said the ECL first came  on around         
15 July. The notes say Mr I reported  that hed noticed rattling for around  a week  before  his 
service and he estimated  hed driven  about  400 miles between 15 July and 26 July. Mr I 
doesnt seem to dispute this. 
Amtrusts engineer said the usual cause for the damage to the cylinders was drive on 
damage. Im persuaded by what hes said given the number of miles Mr I drove  since  the 
ECL came on. 
Ive considered Mr Is point that it was unlikely the drive  on damage occurred before he took 
it in to the garage as the garage didnt say that fault at that time. But it seems the garage 
realised the engine needed replacing after noticing a continued knocking sound.  And this 
was the same sound Mr I had noticed  before taking it in for the service. 
I can understand Mr Is frustration as he said the garage told him the van was safe to drive. 
However, I think its most likely any damage  was done between the 15 July - when the 
warning light came on  and 26 July when the van first when into the garage  as Mr I had 
driven around 400 miles during that time.  So, Im not going to tell Amtrust to pay Mr Is claim. 
Ive looked on Companies House and cant see any link between Mr I and the company 
named on the policy. Im persuaded  by what Mr Is said that this isnt his company  and think 
its most  likely an error in the setting up of the policy. Im pleased to see Amtrust has also 
now agreed to pay this. I still think it should pay interest on this amount because it could 
have made  further  enquiries into this when we let it know  Mr I had raised it, but it chose  not 
to. As Mr Is been without  this money,  Amtrust should add interest  to the missing  VAT 
amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date he paid for the repairs to the date it 
makes payment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Amtrust International 
Underwriters DAC to pay Mr I the VAT it deducted from the repairs it authorised, adding 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date he paid for repairs  to the date it makes  
payment1. I dont require it to pay anything else in relation to his claim. 
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that
interest, it should tell Mr I how much its taken off. It should also give Mr I a certificate showing  this
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN20020413It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr I accepted my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2002041