K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Elevate Credit International Limited trading as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four loans Sunny provided  to Mr C between  December 2016 and 
May 2017. Mr Cs borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 09/12/2016 30/12/2016 6 £850.00 £266.13
2 30/12/2016 04/02/2017 6 £850.00 £283.12
3 04/02/2017 16/03/2017 6 £850.00 £271.91
4 17/05/2017 outstanding 6 £850.00 £253.72
Mr C says the number  of loans Sunny provided to him were unaffordable considering his 
income and expenditure.
In its final response,  Sunny told Mr C that it had decided  not to uphold his complaint.  It said 
that it had undertaken affordability and creditworthiness assessments before making a 
decision about whether to provide  a loan. The low number of loans and the relatively  small 
amount of credit together with the information  it had received from the credit  reference 
agencies did not support  Mr Cs assertion that the loans were unaffordable.
Our adjudicator initially didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint.  He said although Sunny should have 
taken steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Cs financial situation by the time it 
provided loan 4, he hadnt seen  anything in the information provided which suggested  Sunny  
should have been aware that Mr C wouldnt be able to afford the loan repayments. Mr C 
disagreed with this view and sent in some further  information. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  the information  and this time he told the parties that by loan 4, 
proportionate checks would most  likely have shown  that Mr C had multiple existing short-
term loans with other lenders. He said in the circumstances Sunny ought to have realised  it 
was unlikely Mr C would  be able to sustainably repay this loan and any subsequent  loans.
This time Sunny disagreed with our adjudicators view. It said by loan 4 Mr C had a declared 
disposable monthly income of £2,813 and he had taken three loans that had all closed early- 
he then had a break  for over two months before taking out loan 4. It also said it had carried 
out checks on Mr C and it did not accept that loan 4 was unaffordable or that Mr C 
demonstrated an over reliance on its products. As the parties are not in agreement, the 
complaint was passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN24203442Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr C could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.  Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint about  loan 4. I will explain why.
As I said above, early  in the relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable  for Sunny to rely on the 
information Mr C provided. So when Sunny gave Mr C loans 1-3, I think  it was still entitled  to 
rely on this information.  I can see that Mr C told Sunny his income  was around £5,000 per 
month and taking into account the income  and expenditure  Mr C had indicated on the face of 
it loans 1-3 would have reasonably appeared affordable.
But by loan 4 I think Sunny should have done more. Notwithstanding that there was small  
gap between the time Mr C repaid loan 3 and when it provided loan 4, at this point, Mr C had 
been borrowing  the same  amount of money  - £850.00 - from Sunny each time he took out a 
new loan. On each  occasion the loans were taken out as instalment loans repayable  over a 
period of six months. Each loan was repaid early. So, it doesnt look as though Mr C was 
Ref: DRN24203443using these loans  in the way they were  intended but more like payday  loans.  Mr C repaid 
loan 1 on the same day he took out loan 2. Loan 3 was taken  on the same day as Mr C 
repaid loan 2. I think considering all the circumstances, on balance Sunny should  have  
realised Mr C might be having problems managing money by the time he took out loan 4 
which was also for £850. And I think it should  have  carried  out some  more checks  at this 
time.
If it had carried out further checks I think it would have likely been made aware  that Mr C had 
a number of short-term lending commitments with other lenders. Putting all of these things 
together, I think Sunny should  have  probably  realised that Mr C wouldnt be in a position to  
sustainably repay  loan 4 and I dont  think it should have agreed to lend loan 4. 
So, I agree  with our adjudicator and Im upholding the complaint about  loan 4 and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr C loan 4. 
I understand there is an outstanding balance  in respect of this loan.  If that is the case  and if 
Sunny sold the outstanding debt to a third party, if it wishes it should  buy it back if it can and 
then follow  the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
a)Sunny  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance of loan 4, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on this loan.  If this results in Mr C having  made  overpayments  then Sunny 
must refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C. It must  not pursue outstanding balances made 
up of principal it has already written-off. I would remind  Sunny  to treat Mr C fairly.
c)Sunny  must remove any negative  information recorded on Mr Cs credit  file in 
relation to loan 4.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN24203444my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Cs complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2420344