K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy.
Although Marks & Spencer sold the PPI to Mrs S the insurers, Allianz Insurance  Plc 
(Allianz), have accepted  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer just to Allianz in this decision.
background
Mrs S applied for a personal reserve account in 1997. It appears  the PPI was sold at the 
same time in connection with this account.  
Allianz has told us the policy cost 65p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  It 
wouldve paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if Mrs S was off work sick or lost her 
job. And it wouldve  continued to pay while she was off work until the outstanding balance  (at 
the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld.  Mrs S didnt agree 
with our adjudicator  and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below:
 I think Allianz made Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. 
Allianz hasnt been  able to provide a copy of the actual application form that Mrs S 
signed. Thats not surprising, as these  events took place many  years ago. 
But its given  us a sample of the application form it says Mrs S wouldve had to 
complete. The form includes a box that Mrs S wouldve had to tick if she wanted the 
PPI. 
I think its likely that Mrs S completed  an application  form similar to the one Allianz has 
provided. So I think it wouldve been  clear to Mrs S that the PPI was optional,  and I 
dont think Allianz  wouldve added the PPI to her account unless shed  ticked  the box. 
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  
for her. That means it didnt have to ask about  any other means Mrs S had to cover her 
repayments.
Ref: DRN20708772But even if Allianz  had recommended the policy to Mrs S, it doesnt look as though it 
was unsuitable  for her, based  on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Mrs 
S says she was entitled to benefits from her employer if she was off work  sick. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to her employer benefits, and wouldve meant  she 
could use her sick pay to cover other expenses.  
So I think Mrs S wouldve had some use for the policy,  despite  her existing 
arrangements.
 Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Mrs S would  have been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. And the policy was comparable in price to other policies 
which offered similar  benefits.  So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  her 
buying it.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2070877