K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the performance of the with profits pension he took out with 
Scottish Amicable, now trading as The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He thinks  
the way the with profits investment operates is unsuitable as the final bonus has reduced  
significantly. 
background
In 2019 Mr F complained  to Prudential about  the reduction in final bonus on his pension 
policy. It explained that the final bonus  could vary and wasnt  guaranteed. Mr F disagreed  
with the initial response from Prudential. He understood  that the final bonus wasnt  
guaranteed but didnt think his concerns had been addressed. Prudential wrote to him again 
explaining why it still wouldnt be upholding his complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Fs concerns. And he explained that whilst the policy  
did provide for some form of guaranteed bonuses, values werent guaranteed, and a final 
bonus may be payable. 
In response Mr F said that he understood  the investigators conclusion but didnt really agree. 
He didnt accept  the decision. As a result,  the case has been passed  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
Mr Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
For the avoidance of any doubt  my decision is purely about Mr Fs complaint regarding the 
performance of the with profits fund in respect of the pensions  he originally took out with 
Scottish Amicable. I havent considered the suitability of his investing his pensions  in with 
profits funds.
I do understand that Mr F is upset and disappointed  that the pensions  he originally took out 
with Scottish Amicable, have reduced in value as a result of a reduction of their final bonus. 
But investment  returns  on with profits policies can go up and down. And I would need  to be 
persuaded that Prudential  had done  something  wrong for his complaint to be upheld. And 
looking at the available  evidence I dont believe that it did.
I say this because  section 2.6 of the policy conditions Mr F would in all likelihood have been 
provided with at the time of the sale says:
Further bonus  units, special  bonus  or terminal  bonus  may be (my emphasis) added by 
Scottish Amicable from time to time as appropriate.
Terminal bonus is another way of describing final bonus. So, Im satisfied that as the policy  
conditions say a terminal bonus may be added,  this doesnt provide an obligation  to apply 
one.
Ive also considered the statements provided  by Prudential. And Ive noted  that the 2016 
statement says:
Ref: DRN27611232These values arent  guaranteed  and Final  bonus  may be added  (although  this is not 
guaranteed) when the benefits of your policy  are paid. The rates of final bonus  may go down 
as well as up. Final bonuses can be removed or reduced at any time without notice and is 
therefore not guaranteed.
And other statements contain  similar wording. So, this also in my opinion,  indicates that a 
final bonus doesnt necessarily have to be paid. And it seems  to me that any indicative policy 
value which  includes non-guaranteed benefits such as a final bonus isnt necessarily 
guaranteed and can go down in value as well as up. 
I do understand that Mr F feels strongly that this is morally wrong. But I need  to consider if 
what Prudential has done is fair and reasonable and in line with what it is contractually  
obliged to do. And for the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think  it has done  anything wrong in 
how it has applied bonuses to Mr Fs policy. It appears to have paid the contractual  bonuses 
as it should have. And it has adjusted the final bonus as it is allowed to do. 
Its approach to applying with profits  bonuses  is similar  to what  other with profits providers 
do. So, I dont  think it is doing anything out of the ordinary in its approach to applying  final 
bonuses on Mr Fs policies.
How much bonus to apply to with profits  policies  is a matter of commercial  judgement  for the 
with profits  provider. But Prudential  has to manage its with profits fund in line with its 
regulatory obligations and its own stated with profits  investment  principles. And the 
smoothing process that Mr F has referred  to allows it to apply  guaranteed  bonuses even 
when the underlying investments in the with profits fund are not performing as well as they 
might have in the past. 
Prudential has explained that the returns on the with profits fund were negative  in 2018. But 
it still applied guaranteed  bonuses to with profits policies. And in those circumstances, I dont 
think it surprising that adjustments  may have  been made to final bonuses.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is not to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2761123