K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax have allocated payments  to his 
credit card incorrectly.  
background
In the statement dated 11 June 2018 Mr Ms credit card account with Halifax had two 
balances both of which were running at promotional rates. The smaller balance of £2023.88 
had a rate of 0% which expired on the 2 July 2018  after which  the standard rate of interest  of 
19.2% would apply.  The larger balance of £8753.75  had a promotional  rate of 4.94%.  On 3 
July 2018 Mr M paid £2024 to the account.  He complained to Halifax  when he found this 
payment was allocated  to pay some of the larger balance at the interest rate of 4.94%. He 
thought it shouldve been applied to the smaller of the balances  as - from 3 July 2018  when 
payment was made - that balance was charged  at 19.2% interest. So he thought that was 
the highest rate in force when he made the payment.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. They said whilst  they allocated payments to the highest 
rate first that allocation was based on a customers statement rather  than their real time plan. 
When Mr M paid on 3 July 2018  his most  recent statement of 11 June  2018  showed the 0% 
rate in force and the higher rate to be that at 4.9%.  Halifax appreciated Mr M may not be 
aware that allocation  of payment was based on the statement. So they arranged to merge 
the smaller balance now chargeable at 19.2%  with the existing balance  of the promotional 
4.94% rate and refunded the payment of £8.83  interest to the account.  Halifax  also later 
credited Mr M with the sum of £50 for the trouble and upset caused by their failure  to 
respond to his subsequent emails in a timely  way.
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and felt Halifax  had exacerbated the situation by 
claiming their allocation was correct  despite  being unable to show him a term or condition to 
demonstrate it and failing to uphold  his complaint despite his firm belief that he was correct.  
He also thought theyd failed to put him in a position  he would have been if his payment had 
been allocated  correctly and caused frustration each time he attempted to contact them.
Our adjudicator didnt  think it was unreasonable for Halifax to apply payments to the most 
expensive balance first or for that to be based on previous  statements.  He also thought 
although the terms and conditions Halifax referred to could be clearer he couldnt see Mr M 
had suffered any financial loss due to the resolution Halifax  had offered.
Mr M disagreed with the view overall and asked for an ombudsman  to review  his complaint 
and to consider  his comments in relation to the interest  charged  and the allocation  of 
payments.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that although Im aware  Mr Ms recently expressed concern 
about the calculations of interest due on the account, Im dealing in this complaint with the 
allocation of payments  to his account in July 2018. 
Ref: DRN24563412The role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual  complaints and to 
award redress where appropriate.  I dont perform the role of the industry regulator and I dont 
have the power  to make rules for financial businesses or to punish them.  So Im first looking 
at whether Halifax did anything wrong  here and, if so, to put Mr M back  in the position he 
should be in if the mistake  hadnt  happened. For reasons Ill explain Im not satisfied Halifax  
made any mistakes here. So it follows I cant uphold  the complaint or award redress.
Protocol issued by the UK Card Association  and adopted in the Financial Conduct  
Authoritys handbook sets out credit card providers  should allocate payments to the part of a 
customers balance with the highest  interest rate. Halifax accept that and says its what 
theyve done here.  
It seems  to me the problems arisen as Halifax base the allocation of a payment on the 
balances shown in the current statement - here thats the one dated 11 June 2018. I cant  
say Halifax done  anything wrong  in doing this as such a policy  is a commercial  decision for 
them. But I can see Mr M has timed and made his payment  assuming  it will be applied to the 
balances that are actually in force  on a given date  here being the 3 July 2018. And whilst, 
like the investigator,  I think Halifax couldve made that basis of the allocation  clearer I cant  
say theyve done anything wrong  in the actual  allocation. I consider Halifaxs  goodwill actions 
in merging the balance that became chargeable at 19.2% with the existing balance of the 
promotional 4.94% rate and the refund  of £8.83  interest in July 2018 when Mr M complained 
to be a reasonable response.
I understand Mr M feels strongly  about this and I can see hes been put to some 
inconvenience and there have been delays in responding to emails. But I think  Halifaxs  
apology and credit  of £50 compensation for that aspect is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2456341