K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Erudio Student Loans Ltd (Erudio) didnt defer her student loan 
repayments following  her 2015 application.
background
Ms F complained to Erudio in April 2015  about  its handling of her student loan deferment
application. Erudio  sent her two final response letters  (FRL) in May and August 2015, 
explaining how it had assessed her income  and that it was in line with student loan 
regulations. As her income was over the threshold,  Ms F didnt qualify for deferment.  
Erudio told Ms F that she had six months to make a complaint to our service.
Ms F was unhappy with Erudios response  and complained to us in 2018. Our investigator  
told Ms F that shed  made her complaint too late. And there were no exceptional  
circumstances to allow us to take it forward.
Ms F complained to Erudio again in 2019.  She said that her complaint was based on new 
information, which was that Erudio applied  different  approaches  when assessing her student 
loan applications  from 2016 onwards (those applications  were successful) compared to her 
2015 application.
Erudio sent Ms F an FRL in June  2019.  It explained to her that unlike her income levels  from 
2016 onwards,  her income for 2015 was considered  to be above the level for deferment.  
Erudio said it didnt  agree  that Ms Fs application  in 2015 had been assessed  differently and 
advised her she could contact our service within six months of the date of the letter  if she 
was unhappy  with its response. As Ms F was unhappy, she contacted our service  again a 
few weeks later.
Our Investigator  looked  into Ms Fs complaint and thought Erudio had acted in line with the 
Student Loan  Regulations and Ms Fs other deferment applications when it decided on the 
2015 application. Ms F didnt agree with the investigators view and amongst other things 
said it can be shown  that I was treated differently on the 2015 application. As a result  of 
Erudio refusing to deference my account in 2015,  it now presents as having arrears.
Because Ms F was not happy with our investigators  view,  the complaint  was passed to me
to consider.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ms F says that her complaint is new and differs from the previous one that she sent to us 
in 2018. I agree that the complaint is new in the sense that she referred it to us around  a 
year after her previous  complaint. And I can also appreciate that, as Ms F referred the 
complaint to us within the time limit that Erudio  set out in its FRL in June 2019, she feels  
we should look into the merits of her complaint.
But I dont agree that the complaint is new in terms of its substance. Like Ms Fs complaint, 
which we excluded in 2018 because it was made  out of time, her 2019 complaint also 
relates to Erudios handling of her 2015  student loan application.
Ref: DRN25539652So, I then went on to consider whether we should  look into the merits of Ms Fs complaint 
in line with our rules.  And I intend to decide  that I dont think we should. Ill now explain 
why.
Our rules recognise and allow  a complaint about the same issue  to be referred to us again. 
But when this happens, we must think about whether it would be appropriate for us to 
consider the complaint, or to use our discretion under  DISP  3.3 to dismiss it. DISP 3.3.4.A 
says that one of the grounds  for dismissing a complaint is where  we believe that 
considering it could seriously impair  the effective operation of our service.  And DISP  
3.3.4.B says that a complaint might impair the effective operation  of our service if it has 
previously been  considered  or excluded by us.
And I think these rules apply to Ms Fs case. We excluded her complaint in 2018 without 
considering its merits because it was made out of time. And, we didnt think there were 
exceptional circumstances  that led to the delay in her complaint being made, so that didnt 
allow us to consider  the complaint either.
But there is an exception  under  DISP 3.3.4 B that might allow  us to look into a complaint if it 
has already been  considered or excluded by us. And thats when theres new information,  
thats likely  to affect the outcome. Ive carefully considered  whether  the new information that 
Ms F gave us might  have led to a different outcome in 2018. And Im not currently  
persuaded that it would  have done.
The new information  Ms F referred  to is evidence of her earnings from 2016  onwards. 
But regardless of what the information  is and when Ms F received it, I cant  see that it would 
have affected  Ms Fs ability to refer her previous complaint to us on time. Nor am I satisfied 
that its likely  to have  affected our decision  to exclude her complaint because it was out of 
time.
For all of these reasons, Im intending to decide  that it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
consider the merits  of Ms Fs complaint and I wont be taking it any further.
the response to my provisional  decision
Erudio didnt have  any comments. But Ms F said she didnt agree that her 2019 complaint  
could have the same outcome as the previous complaint. She said that her 2019  complaint 
was that her later deferment applications were  treated differently to the 2015  application.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Ms Fs response.   
Ms F again told us that Erudio treated her later deferment applications (which  were 
successful) differently  to her 2015  application.  And its for that reason that she still believes  
we should look into her complaint now taking account of the new information  she received. 
But, its clear to me that its the 2015 application that Ms F is unhappy about because  Erudio 
wouldnt defer her arrears. She isnt seeking any remedy in relation to the 2019  deferment, 
other than would impact  the 2015 application.  And its her complaint in relation to the 2015  
application that weve already decided was made to us out of time.  
Ref: DRN25539653After careful consideration, Im still not persuaded that the new information Ms F received  
would have affected her ability to refer her previous complaint to us on time.  And I dont think  
its likely  to have affected our decision to exclude  her complaint because it was out of time.
So, for these reasons  and the reasons set out in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind about taking the complaint forward.   
my decision
My decision  is that I wont be taking Ms Fs complaint forward.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2553965