K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC rejected his Section 75 claim.
background
In January 2017 Mr V purchased a caravan awning from a retailer and paid with his Tesco 
credit card.
The first time Mr V used  the awning it leaked.  Mr V returned the awning to the retailer.  The 
retailer arranged for the manufacturer  to inspect it. It was returned to Mr V with no faults 
found.
Mr V remained unhappy  and complained to Tesco under Section 75.
Tesco rejected  the claim. It said there  wasnt enough evidence to substantiate the faults. It 
asked Mr V to obtain an independent report to verify the faults. Mr V wasnt able to obtain a 
report. Tesco rejected his claim.
Mr V was unhappy with Tescos decision and complained to this service. He wants  Tesco to 
refund the cost of the awning.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He felt that there wasnt  enough evidence to 
show that there was a fault with the awning.
Mr V didnt agree. He said the amount of water  leaking from the awning exceeded the 
amount of water which would be caused by condensation. He said hed provided evidence to 
show that the awning was leaking.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances Section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against a 
supplier of goods or the provider of credit if theres  been a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation by the supplier. In order to uphold Mr Vs complaint about Tesco, I would  
need to be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or a misrepresentation and that 
Tescos response to the claim  under Section  75 wasnt fair or reasonable.
Mr V hasnt said that theres  been a misrepresentation  so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant  law says that goods need  to be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose  at the 
point of supply.  If this isnt the case then a breach of contact can be said to have  occurred.
Ive looked at all of the available  evidence, including the photos  provided by Mr V. Ive also 
taken into account  the manufacturers comments.
I can see from the photos that there  is a degree of water inside the awning.  I cant say 
whether this has been caused by rainwater leaking in, or by condensation.  Im not an expert 
in the quantity of water which could be caused  by condensation (as compared to rainwater 
Ref: DRN21170202leaking in) so Im unable  to reach  a conclusion  either way about this. Mr V has said that the 
retailer agreed with him that it was more than condensation, but I havent seen any evidence 
to substantiate  this.
An expert report would have been useful  to help decide whether the awning was of 
satisfactory quality. Mr V has said that he couldnt find an expert, so Ive had to make my 
decision based on the available evidence.
Ive looked at an email  sent to Tesco by the manufacturer of the awning. This says that 
following an inspection of the awning no faults  were  found.
In the absence of an independent inspection, the opinion  of the manufacturer is the next 
best available evidence of the condition of the awning. Based  on the manufacturers findings, 
Im unable to conclude that the awning wasnt of satisfactory quality. So I cant  say that 
theres been a breach of contract.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think theres  enough evidence  to show that the awning is 
faulty. On the information available, I think Tescos response to the Section 75 claim was fair 
and reasonable,  so I wont  be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2117020