K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Arval UK Limited  has unfairly charged her at the end of her car hire 
agreement.
background
In June 2015 Mrs K was supplied with a car and entered into a lease agreement  with Arval. 
At the end of the agreement Arval  arranged for the car to be inspected and collected.
Following inspection Arval  asked Mrs K to pay charges totalling  £815 for damage which 
Arval said went beyond  fair wear and tear.
Mrs K was unhappy about the charges. She said that the person who had carried out the 
inspection had assured her that only minor repairs were needed. Mrs K feels  that the charge 
of £815 is therefore unreasonable. Shes also unhappy that Arval wouldnt  allow  her to take 
the car back  after inspection and collection and arrange for the repairs to be carried out. Mrs 
K also said that she hadnt  covered  the mileage limit in the agreement  and that the car was 
worth more as a result.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said he was unable  to comment  on what the 
inspector has said to Mrs K but that based on the available  evidence there was damage 
which exceeded fair wear  and tear which Mrs K was liable to pay for under the terms of the 
agreement.
Mrs K didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement. These  say that Arval has the right 
to charge for the costs  of repairs for damage which exceeds fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the BVLRA guidelines.
Arval has said that the charges it has applied are in line with the terms and conditions.  It has 
identified damage  to the car which it says is unfair wear and tear within the meaning of the 
relevant industry  guidelines. 
Ive looked at the inspection report (including the photos). Having considered  the damage 
identified, Im satisfied that it exceeds fair wear  and tear in accordance with the BVLRA 
guidelines.
The reasoning behind the guidelines is that the car is likely to have suffered a loss of value 
due to the damage. Mrs K has said that because she hasnt covered the maximum mileage  
allowed under  the agreement  the car is worth more. I understand the logic behind  the point 
which Mrs K makes but I havent  been provided with any evidence to show  what the car 
would be worth with differing amounts  of mileage. So I cant reasonably  conclude  that the 
loss in value caused by the damage has been mitigated by lower  than average mileage.
Ref: DRN26091092I appreciate that Mrs K feels that she was led to believe that the damage wasnt significant.  
Because I wasnt present at the inspection I dont know exactly what  was said.  But even if 
the inspector told Mrs K that there was nothing major of concern, this comment  is 
subjective and doesnt necessarily mean that there  was no damage  which  exceeded fair 
wear and tear. The inspector might  just have meant that there were no serious dents or parts  
such as bumpers or headlights requiring replacement.
Mrs K has said that she was denied the opportunity to arrange for the repairs to be carried  
out following  the inspection. I dont think Arval  has acted unfairly in declining that request. 
The terms and conditions  of the lease agreement make  it clear that the car will be inspected 
at the end of the term and that Mrs K is responsible for any damage which goes  beyond  fair 
wear and tear. So at any time during the term of the lease and prior to returning the car Mrs 
K could  have had the car checked for bumps and scratches and arranged  for these to be 
repaired.
Im satisfied that the damage goes beyond  fair wear  and tear and that the charges are 
payable. For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2609109