K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  gave poor service under a home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints against insurance companies and 
other regulated financial firms. Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company  
of that name and I include its engineers  and others  for whose actions I hold that company  
responsible.
From what  Mr P says, he was, in September, sharing his home  with his mother (who is 
elderly and has mobility problems), his sister and her young daughters (his nieces).
Mr P had British Gas Gas Appliance Cover. The policy terms said it was an insurance 
product. It covered  his gas-fired water  heater  for repairs and an annual service.
He had an annual  service on about  30 August 2018 and British Gas said the appliance was 
working safely. He complained that British Gas hadnt done the service  properly   because 
on 2 September  the heater broke  down  and on 3 September a second  engineer  said it was 
unsafe and switched it off.
On 3 October British  Gas sent a final response letter. It said a third engineer  (a safety  
assurance engineer)  had said there  had been no health risk to Mr P or his family. But British 
Gas said it was sending  a cheque for £130.00  as "a gesture of goodwill". Unhappy  with that 
offer, Mr P brought  his complaint to us the same day.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
she shouldnt substitute her own judgment  for that of the qualified  safety  assurance  engineer  
who confirmed that the heater didnt pose  a risk to Mr P or his family. 
The investigator thought that Mr P hadnt had the best service. But she was satisfied that the 
offer of £130.00  took  into account the inconvenience Mr P experienced and was also 
generally in line with what we wouldve recommended.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to British  Gas on 27 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I cant award compensation at a level to punish or deter such  mistakes.  Rather I have 
to look at the actual  effect on Mr P, including his concern for his family.
British Gas said its offer was made  up as follows:
For the inconvenience of multiple visits £50.00
for broken appointments £30.00
for a broken  promise  £30.00
for multiple  calls chasing the appointment and complaint £20.00
Ref: DRN24478052total           £130.00 
But that offer doesnt include anything for the distress and inconvenience Mr P 
experienced in worrying  about whether British Gas had left him and his family at risk 
between 30 August and 3 September.  
Subject to any further information from Mr P or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct  British Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr P  in addition to the £130.00  it had already paid  a further £100.00 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Mr P hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
I havent considered  Mr Ps complaint  about the invoice  on 5 October  because  that is after 
the date of the final response.  I dont think Mr P made that complaint until he emailed us on 
21 January. British Gas hasnt had the usual  opportunity to respond to that complaint. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me deal with it in this decision.
Otherwise Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy  was renewed on 28 November 2017. The cost for the following year was about 
£110.00 which he agreed to pay by instalments of about £9.00 per month.
I accept that Mr P didnt  call British Gas to do repairs under the policy. But Im satisfied that 
he had cover as stated in the policy terms. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to order any 
refund of premium for the period when  he had the benefit of the policy.  
I accept the statement from British Gas that the appliance was room sealed. I understand 
that to mean that the exhaust gases could only escape via the flue, not into the room where 
the boiler was.
Ive seen photographs of a hole in the side of the water heater. Mr P says his sister took the 
photographs later.  But from the size of the hole, I find it likely that a problem was clearly 
visible on 30 August  and the first British Gas engineer  shouldve  seen it. 
He left a written job sheet  at Mr Ps property. He also uploaded some notes. The notes 
recorded Code 6. And that means  quote  declined following advice. So I find that the 
engineer advised Mr P that he should consider  getting a new water  heater.
I think British Gas accepts that its engineer shouldve issued a safety notice saying that the 
appliance was at risk. It says it has given the engineer  feedback  about this. But the 
category of at risk isnt as bad as the category of immediately dangerous.
Ive thought about what position Mr P wouldve been in if the engineer had issued an at risk 
notice on 30 August. I think he wouldnt have had the use of the water heater.  And I think  he 
wouldve been troubled that he and his family had been at risk before 30 August.
Ref: DRN24478053What actually happened was that the heater stopped working properly on 2 September.  That 
left no hot water for Mr P and his family.
And I have  no reason  to doubt Mr Ps statement that on 3 September  the second  engineer  
not only cut off the hot water but also cut off the cold water supply to the bath. 
The final response  letter later included the following:
An engineer then attended and advised you that there was a hole in the heat 
exchanger and the appliance was very dangerous, this appliance had to be 
condemned.  You were very unhappy that the service engineer  did not identify this 
and left the appliance in a dangerous state.
I think that was in a section of the letter summarising  Mr Ps complaint,  rather than agreeing 
with it. 
I accept that British Gas didnt respond  to Mr P as efficiently as it shouldve  done. It didnt 
keep a promise about communication and it didnt  keep all its appointments. So Mr P had to 
spend extra  time chasing up his complaint.
From what  he says,  I think  Mr P got a new water heater on 18 September. 
I accept that British Gas incorrectly told Mr P the first engineer  had been at the property  for 
71 minutes. But I accept that this was no more than a mistake,  quickly  corrected to 45 
minutes.
There was some delay before British Gas sent its third engineer  a safety specialist. I think 
he tried to reassure Mr P that he and his family hadnt been in danger.
I dont condone  the making of mistakes in servicing gas appliances. But  under the rules by 
which the Financial  Ombudsman is bound  I cant award compensation at a level to punish 
or deter such mistakes. Rather  I have to look at the actual effect on Mr P, including  his 
concern for his family.
After he cancelled the policy, British Gas refunded £7.37 and I find that fair.
As it was a room sealed appliance  I dont  think  Mr P or his family had been exposed  to any 
safety risk
British Gas said its offer was made  up as follows:
For the inconvenience of multiple visits £50.00
for broken appointments £30.00
for a broken  promise  £30.00
for multiple  calls chasing the appointment and complaint £20.00
total           £130.00 
But that offer doesnt include anything for the distress and inconvenience Mr P experienced 
in worrying about  whether  British Gas had left him and his family at risk between 30 August 
and 3 September. 
Ref: DRN24478054Thats a short period. But I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to pay Mr P  in 
addition to the £130.00 it has already paid  a further £100.00 for distress  and 
inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P  in addition to the £130.00 it has already  
paid  a further £100.00  for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2447805