K822xThis complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr R says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of the credit card application  form which  was completed during the 
meeting Mr R had in branch and a printed cross has been placed  in the box next to the 
credit card repayment cover  the name used by Halifax  for PPI. Whilst the cross has 
been pre-printed on the form,  I think its likely  this selection came about  as a result  of a 
conversation between Mr R and the advisor  where PPI was discussed. Ive also seen a 
copy of Mr Rs signed credit agreement. On it there is a section related to PPI and the 
box opting for the policy  has a handwritten tick in it. Mr R has signed directly  below this 
so I think its likely  to reflect what he wanted. If Mr R didnt want  to take out the PPI he 
could have left this section blank.
So on balance I think its likely Halifax made  it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr R says he wouldve received some sick pay at the time the policy  was sold.  He also 
says he had other insurance  policies in place at the time  but that he cant  remember 
the details of these.  But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay he wouldve 
received  and for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work because  of accident or 
sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. So I think  he 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN26313422my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2631342