K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Elavon Financial  Services Designated Activity  Company charged him 
unnecessary fees and didnt inform him how these could be avoided.
background
In 2013 Mr J met with a representative of a company I will call R. It provides business card 
machine services. Elavon is an acquirer business which processes transactions  and is 
separate from R. Mr J signed  two contracts, one with R and the other with Elavon. I 
understand Rs representative arranged  for the contract with Elavon to be set up. 
In simple terms the provision of card services for Mr Js business required two separate  
elements, the provision  of the hardware and the processing of transactions. Those who take 
card payments are required to be Payment Card Industry (PCI)  Compliant. This regime  was 
set up by the Card  Schemes (MasterCard and Visa) which manage and control  the 
operations, clearing and processing of all card payment  transactions. It is mandatory for all 
who process, access or retain card data in their business.
Elavon incur  charges if they cannot  prove a customer is PCI compliant and it passes those 
charges on. Each customer has to prove they are PCI complaint annually. Mr Js account 
was PCI compliant  for the first year, but not thereafter. Recently he has discovered that if he 
had filled in a form each year he could have  avoided the charges.
He complained to Elavon and said he hadnt  been told that he could have  easily avoided the 
charges. It rejected  his complaint and said the contract he had signed set out the 
requirement for annual  validation  of compliance. It also said that it had sent monthly 
reminders to the email  address  Mr J had provided. These had been accepted  by his mailbox 
save for those sent in October and November  2018.  Mr J disputed that he had received any 
emails from Elavon and said it had been using an incorrect address.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He said he couldnt hold Elavon 
accountable for the actions of R or its representative. He noted Mr J had said that he had 
been told he would have to pay thousands  for pounds to be compliant and so the monthly 
fee was a better option, but he couldnt say this had come from Elavon.
He was satisfied  that the contract made it sufficiently clear  since Mr J had been compliant for 
the first year.  He was also satisfied that the business had sent emails to the address 
supplied by Mr J. It wasnt clear  how these  had been delivered as the address was wrong.  
However, he didnt  think  these were central  to the complaint as Elavon wasnt obliged to 
send them. He added that it had written  to Mr J in June 2017  to notify him of a change in 
fees which could  have triggered  him to review  the position. Mr J didnt agree and said Elavon 
had been dishonest in not making  the situation  clear  and it had profited  as a result.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24328572This complaint is against Elavon and I can only consider its actions.  I appreciate Mr J says 
that he was told the cost of compliance was prohibitive, but I have no evidence to show that 
this was said or that it was said by Elavon.
I have noted the application form signed by Mr J which  contains  the following:
All Merchants must  comply with The requirements  of the Payment Card lndustry Data  
Security Standards  ("PCI  DSS") We require all Level  4 Merchants  (determined  by 
Transaction volume) to validate PCI DSS compliance on an annual  basis with initial  
validation to occur no later than ninety  (90) days from when the Merchant 
Application has been  accepted by Us
Elavon has also supplied copy of the welcome leaflet sent to new customers and this 
contains a section on PCI compliance and how they can become compliant. It also provides 
a dedicated PCI customer helpline.
Therefore I believe it was made sufficiently clear that he had to renew his compliant status 
each year. There is nothing in that material that would  suggest that it would be prohibitively 
expensive. 
As for the emails I cannot say what happened. Elavon says it was using the address 
supplied by Mr J subsequent to his application, but this misses the prefix the. Its records 
show these were delivered, but Mr J says he has no record  of receiving them. However,  
Elavon wasnt obliged to send these  and I have no reason to doubt it used the address it 
was given.
So while I can appreciate  Mr Js frustration  at paying  for something  he could have avoided I 
cannot say that Elavon has done anything wrong.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I leave it to Mr J to decide  if he 
wishes to take to goodwill payment of £50 offered by Elavon. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision 
before 8 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2432857