K822xcomplaint
Mr Ks complaint is about how Assurant General Insurance Limited handled the cancellation 
of his mobile-phone insurance. 
background 
Mr K took out mobile-phone insurance  with Assurant  in late 2016. He made successful 
claims on the policy in May 2017,  January 2018, and May 2018. He upgraded his phone in 
July 2018 and was told that his cover would remain active  but it ended in August 2018.
Mr K says he only found out the cover had been  cancelled when he tried to claim in early  
2019. He was able to repair his phone under a separate warranty.  But he complained that he 
hadnt been told about the cancellation, and that hed been  left without cover going forward.
 
Assurant admitted that Mr K wasnt sent a cancellation notice, and that a call had been cut 
off when he complained. It offered him £50 compensation. But it said the cover  had been  
cancelled in line with the terms of the policy as hed made three successful claims within  a 
12-month period.  And, even if the cover had still been running, the claim wouldnt have been 
met as the repair was covered by the warranty. 
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr K referred  the matter to our service.  He said that, if the 
policy was cancelled due to his previous claims, that shouldve happened  sooner  and he 
shouldve been  notified. Assurant told our investigator that the policy had actually been 
cancelled because Mr K fell behind with his payments. But our investigator said, in line with 
the policy terms, the cover shouldve  been cancelled after the third successful claim. So he 
told Assurant to backdate the cancellation and refund any premiums  paid after that date. He 
thought the £50 compensation was fair, noting that Assurant wasnt obliged  to keep offering 
Mr K cover. 
Both sides disagreed.  Mr K said hed been  disadvantaged as he couldnt get insurance 
elsewhere due to the age of his phone. Assurant said the delay cancelling hadnt been part 
of Mr Ks original complaint, so it wanted to investigate  this separately. Our investigator 
clarified that we could  consider the cancellation  delay as it wasnt a new or separate 
concern; it was an integral part of Mr Ks complaint.
The complaint has been escalated to me for a final decision. 
my findings
jurisdiction
Assurant hasnt pushed  back  on what our investigator has said about  our jurisdiction. But for 
the avoidance of doubt, I want to clarify this before explaining my decision.  
Ref: DRN29164632Assurant suggested  that it should  be able to investigate the point  about  the cancellation 
delay separately.  But, as our investigator pointed  out, this isnt a separate complaint;  its a 
point which  Mr K has consistently raised  and which is inherent to his concerns about how 
and why his policy was cancelled. Additionally, we made this particular concern clear to 
Assurant when we took on the case in May 2019.  Yet it didnt allege that it should consider 
this separately until December 2019.  Even if the delay  was investigated separately, Assurant 
wouldve had eight  weeks to do so from when Mr K raised this concern with it. So, Im 
satisfied we can consider  whether the policy was cancelled late within  this complaint.  
merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator has reached   and for largely  the same  reasons.
l
Assurant says the policy was cancelled because  Mr K fell behind with his payments, 
meaning his monthly  premiums went unpaid. That may be correct, as I can see there  was an 
overdue balance  around  the time of the cancellation.  But the policy  termswhich both sides 
ultimately agreed to be bound byalso say the cover  will end if three successful claims are 
made within a twelve-month period. So, when the third claim was settled, the policy 
shouldve ended. Ive therefore  decided that the cancellation should  be backdated to this 
point. Any premiums Mr K has paid since then should be refunded.
Mr K was told that about the three-claim limit when he took out his cover. But, when he 
upgraded his phone a few months after his third claim, he was told that the cover  would 
continue. He wasnt sent notice of the cancellation, and when he did find out he was given 
conflicting explanations. Ive considered the impact this had on him.
Mr K says Assurant wont allow him to take out a new policy,  and hes struggling to get cover  
elsewhere due to the age of his phone. Within reason, Assurant has legitimate commercial  
discretion over who/what it insures   and on what terms.  I dont consider it appropriate  to 
interfere with this. Nor can I fairly hold it responsible for the terms on which other insurers  
will provide  cover. In any case, Mr K hasnt  shown that he couldnt have got reasonable 
cover at the point he found out about the cancellation. And his bills (which Id reasonably  
expect him to check)  show  that the cover stopped on 3 August 2018  and that he hasnt 
been charged for it since then. So Im not satisfied that Mr K has fully demonstratedor 
mitigatedhis losses.
That said,  it was no doubt frustrating and disappointing for Mr K to find out that his phone 
wasnt covered. And Ive taken on board his concerns about the handling  of his complaint. 
Overall, considering what Ive said above,  Im satisfied that £50 compensation is a fair and 
reasonable reflection of the impact Assurants errors had on him. 
Ref: DRN29164633my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
backdate the cancellation of this policy to the date the May 2018  claim was settled
refund  anything Mr K has paid towards  this cover since the date the May 2018 claim 
was settled
pay Mr K £50 compensation (if it hasnt already done so)
If Mr K accepts  this decision,  it becomes legally binding on both parties. So he wont then be 
able to take legal action  in relation  to any issues covered in this case. If he rejects the 
decision, whilst that wont affect his legal  rights, Assurant wont be obliged  to comply with my 
decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2916463