K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about LEBC Group Limiteds process in transferring his defined  benefit 
pension to a personal pension. He wanted  to ensure no deadlines were  missed and his 
instructions have been carried out.
When Mr G finally got access to his personal pension he was stunned to see the plethora  of 
emails about fund selection and the charges paid to the IFA. This raised  concerns about  the 
manner in which the account was set up and how it was managed.  
background
Mr G was a member of his employers defined benefit pension scheme until December 2017. 
The pension scheme was being  wound  up and he was presented  with a number of options.  
The trustees of the scheme appointed LEBC to provide advice to members.  It was LEBCs  
responsibility to present  the various options  to Mr G. 
Documentation prepared by LEBC set out the following options available  to Mr G: 
Transfer his pension  benefits to a deferred  annuity
Transfer his pension  benefits to a personal  pension that LEBC had selected with 
reduced annual  charges
Transfer his pension  benefits to a pension provider  of his choice.
Mr G was concerned that LEBC had indicated he would  be transferred into a deferred 
annuity when  his favoured route was to transfer into the pension  LEBC had selected.
LEBC wrote  to Mr G on 11 May 2018  with a recommendation report  to transfer the scheme 
benefits to a personal pension. The funds LEBC recommended were  also included in the 
report. However, the option forms to transfer  were not included. The deadline  for the option  
form to be received was 8 June 2018. 
The deadline  was later extended by the trustees  to 22 August  2018. The option  forms were 
received on 11 June 2018.  
An adjudicator looked into this complaint and limited  the scope of his investigation to 
whether or not Mr Gs instructions were carried out by LEBC.  
The adjudicator noted that the option form was signed by Mr G on 18 May 2018 but was not 
received at LEBC until 11 June 2018. He was satisfied LEBC  had received the form before 
the revised deadline date.  Although the communication between both parties could have 
been clearer, LEBC had rectified the situation and LEBC  had accepted Mr Gs option  to 
transfer his benefits.  
Mr G was unhappy with the adjudicators investigation and said he would seek legal advice.  
Subsequently, Mr G contacted us again to say he wanted to transfer the personal pension to 
a different plan. He was having  problems doing  so because of the way the plan was set up. 
He was also unhappy he paid for LEBCs initial advice  and now discovers he is paying  
LEBCs management fees. He has now been  able to transfer the personal  pension into his 
current employers pension scheme.
Ref: DRN27774812We obtained information from the personal pension provider and LEBC. This showed where 
Mr Gs pension funds were invested  and the charges deducted. The provider  confirmed no 
adviser charges  have  ever been  taken  from the plan.
I issued my provisional decision. I said Mr G initially complained  because  he was concerned  
about delays by LEBC which meant  he would  be left with a deferred  annuity. It can be seen 
from the history of events  set out above  there  was initially a deadline  of 8 June 2018. The 
deadline was extended and Mr G was able to transfer his pension  benefits. 
LEBC did not enclose a form with their letter of 11 May 2018. However, the form was 
provided and Mr G was able to transfer his pension. LEBC explained the deadline date was 
pushed back on a number  of occasions.  Mr G was not penalised because his form was 
returned after 8 June 2018.
The transfer value  was recalculated. The amount  actually transferred was lower than the 
original quotation.  LEBC explained to us this was because the scheme  was being wound up. 
The members received a share of the fund at the date the scheme  was wound up. I 
accepted this explanation  of how the transfer  value was calculated for the scheme.
I was satisfied LEBC did not cause any delays, or loss, to Mr Gs transfer value.
Mr G invested in funds  recommended  by LEBC. He complained he was not able to access  
the plan and instructions were given by LEBC. The only instructions appear to have been 
when the plan was set up in accordance  with the advice given. I was not persuaded LEBC 
did anything wrong  in setting up the plan.
The personal pension  provider confirmed that no adviser charges had been paid on the plan. 
Again, I was not persuaded LEBC did anything wrong.
I understand Mr G experienced delays transferring from the personal pension  to his new 
employers pension scheme. And that he has been  compensated for those delays. I have not 
seen any evidence LEBC was involved, or the delays were caused by the way the personal 
pension was set up.
I said if Mr G has evidence that LEBC caused  the delays, he should present his evidence  in 
response to my provisional  decision.
Mr G did not agree with my provisional  decision.  He said we had failed to investigate the 
complaint, failed to secure supporting data and refused  to provide evidence. The pension 
provider assisted in the transfer  to a different pension. Mr G says LEBCs  action resulted in 
financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN27774813Mr G is unhappy with our investigation. However,  I explained in my provisional decision that 
Mr G had not suffered  a loss as a result  of the transfer from his former employers pension  
scheme. And any delays  in transferring  his personal pension to a new plan with the same 
provider could not be attributed to LEBC.  I have not seen any evidence LEBC  caused delays 
or the delays  were  due to the way LEBC set up the pension.
Whilst I understand Mr G is frustrated because he thinks he incurred a financial loss and he 
is not satisfied  with our investigation, he has been  provided with all of the evidence  we have 
available. I asked Mr G to provide any additional  evidence in response  to my provisional 
decision. Although  Mr G has been  critical of our investigation, he has not provided  any 
additional evidence  for me to consider.
In summary,  I am satisfied Mr G received  the transfer value he was entitled to when his 
employers pension scheme was wound  up. I am not satisfied LEBC caused any delays in 
the subsequent transfer of the personal pension.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint and make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2777481