K821x#15complaint
Miss G has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly didnt  re rate 
her premium  amount  under her motor policy when an outstanding  claim was settled in her 
favour.
Miss G is represented by her father Mr G. However  for the sake  of clarity I shall just refer to 
Miss G throughout my decision. 
 
background
Miss G was involved  in an incident  in October  2017  where her car was scratched, and she 
made a claim. That claim was resolved in her favour in November 2018. By this time she 
was insured with Advantage. She told Advantage her No Claims Discount (NCD)  was now 
increased from three years to five years as a result and she expected  some  level of premium 
refund. 
However when Advantage looked at her premium again, it discovered it should  be more.  It 
said it had increased  by £98.15. However  it decided to waive this premium increase, so Miss 
G wasnt charged it. 
Miss G complained as she was of the view her premium  was higher as a result of her claim 
and it ought to be reduced. Advantage didnt agree. It said she had declared  her claim as 
non-fault, so the only change was an increase in the NCD.
Miss G remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator asked 
Advantage to detail  how it arrived  at the premium  amount. Advantage said it couldnt,  so the 
investigator thought  Miss Gs complaint  should be upheld with Advantage paying  her £200 
compensation. 
Miss G wished  for an ombudsman to review the matter,  so its been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
As the adjudicator explained  we dont tell insurers what to charge their policyholders  for any 
given circumstances  as were not the regulator. However my role and that of this service  is 
to look to see if Advantage  here treated Miss G fairly.
In order to do that we ask the underwriter to explain their pricing  basis so as to show  Miss G 
was treated the same as any other policyholder in her situation.  This is commercial 
information so we wouldnt share  it with Miss G, but we would check it.
The investigator asked  Advantage  to obtain  this information from the underwriter. Sadly  
initially it didnt respond and then later said given  the passage of time such  information  cant 
now be reconstructed. 
So given I cant see the basis  on which  Miss Gs policy was originally underwritten  and the 
basis on which her increase of NCD didnt make a difference in her favour, I cant assess  
Ref: DRN26122172whether Advantage treated Miss G fairly or not in its premium amount that it asked  her to 
pay.
This information is routinely requested by us and routinely given by all sorts of insurers,  so 
its not an unusual  request  in complaints concerning  the premium amount a policyholder like 
Miss G was paying.
Further it doesnt appear that Advantage  looked to backdate the issue  to the start of Miss 
Gs policy, which I consider it ought  to have done. This is because it said the extra  premium  
initially generated of £98.15 was due to some changes to the overall risk since  inception, 
however it should  have  been re-rating the premium on the risk at the time it started  with the 
reduction of the NCD.
So taking all this into account  I dont consider Advantage  has treated Miss G fairly. 
Obviously I cant assess whether she is due a refund of premium  either.  Consequently I 
consider the compensation suggested  by the investigator of £200  to be reasonable and in 
line with other awards I have made  in similar  circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss G the sum of £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2612217