K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Miss B bought  PPI at the same time as she applied  for a mortgage in one of the 
banks branches.  The policy gave her protection against accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. She paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain  why.
Halifax had to make it clear to Miss B that the PPI was optional, and she had to agree to 
take it out. Miss B says the bank didnt make  her aware PPI was being  added to her account 
and given the option she wouldve declined it. The bank disputes this, saying its more likely 
than not that the optional nature was verbally  explained in good time before the sale 
concluded. 
I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax no longer has all of Miss Bs 
paperwork from the sale. But thats  not surprising  as it was 20 years  ago. Ive seen a letter it 
sent Miss B after the meeting. This says she acknowledges she was given information about 
insurance against accident, sickness and unemployment and its costs. This suggests  it was 
discussed at the time of her mortgage  application.  Ive thought  carefully about Miss Bs 
comments, but I also have to take into account  how long ago the meeting was and how that 
might affect what she recalls. Overall,  without stronger  evidence that Halifax didnt make 
Miss B aware the PPI was optional and she didnt agree to take it out, I cant  fairly uphold  
Miss Bs complaint on this point.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss B and I think it seems to have been right for her based 
on what Ive seen. Miss B was entitled to six months full pay and six months  half pay if she 
was sick but the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work benefits  for up to 12 months 
for all accident and sickness claims. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover.
 
Ref: DRN24422112Miss B told us she had around £1,500 in savings at the time of the sale but the PPI would 
have meant  she could use these to cover other  living  expenses  whilst not working,  or keep 
them intact for her future needs.  She also said family would have  helped  but thats  not 
suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  
Miss B was borrowing quite a large  sum over a long period, secured on her home. Given 
how serious the effects of not keeping  up with her mortgage repayments could have been, I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for Miss B if she was sick, had an accident or lost her 
job. 
Its possible Halifax didnt give Miss B all the information she needed  before  she decided to 
buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And Miss B doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the 
main exclusions  or limitations  (such  as those affecting people  with pre-existing medical 
conditions or on certain types of employment contract). Overall, I dont think better  
information wouldve  changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Miss B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.  Miss B has 
asked why the bank has paid out on another complaint she made,  but I can only comment  
here on this complaint and its individual merits.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2442211