K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complaint is about the time and costs he incurred addressing  issues with the car he 
acquired through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 247 Money Group Limited  (247 
Money).
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and partially upheld  Mr S complaint. I 
concluded in summary:
Mr S has complained about the service he received from the dealership  but as this was 
to do with the ongoing relationship (post acquisition) and I couldnt hold 247 Money 
responsible for this.
Mr S car was registered in January 2014  and had been driven over 80,000 miles at the 
point of acquisition.  He raised issues within the first 30 days however he didnt ask to 
reject the car at that point. Some repairs  were  undertaken,  and Mr S initially accepted  
these. However further issues  arose. To say that 247 Money  has liability  for the issues 
that arose, I needed to find that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
The car passed a MOT on 5 March  2019  (at the point of acquisition) which  didnt raise  
any concerns. Given the age and mileage of the car at this time some wear and tear 
would be expected (and tyres and brakes  are serviceable items). However, within  a 
couple of weeks  Mr S raised  concerns  about how the car was driving (pulling  to one 
side) and then further issues  were  identified. The car was returned to the dealer and 
repairs needed to be carried  out to the front brakes and a filter and then the rear brakes 
needed repair and the tracking  was adjusted. Given the need for these repairs  so soon 
after acquisition I found it reasonable to accept the car wasnt sufficiently durable and 
therefore not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  
As the repairs were  accepted and these  seem to resolve these  issues,  I found repair was 
a suitable remedy.
Mr S said he needed to get new tyres  due to the wear caused by the steering issue. But 
without further  evidence to show that the tyres were worn beyond  their legal limits at the 
point of supply  (and noting this wasnt raised  in the MOT)  I didnt find I could say 247 
Money was liable for this issue.
Mr S raised concerns about the paintwork shortly after acquisition. Repairs were 
undertaken but Mr S has said that the paintwork has started  to bubble again, suggesting 
the repair failed.  Mr S acquired a used car and so I didnt find it unreasonable that there 
may be some cosmetic  issues.  This didnt mean the car was not of a reasonable 
standard. So, while I noted the frustration that this issue has re-occurred  as I didnt find 
this issue meant  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at acquisition,  I didnt find I could 
hold 247 Money liable for this.
Given the issues that arose and the inconvenience these caused Mr S I thought that he 
should receive some compensation.  I noted  that Mr S had received some money for his 
costs but given the distress and inconvenience  the issues  caused, I thought  it 
reasonable that he be paid a further  £350.
Ref: DRN24805772I said that without  further evidence to suggest the warranty  was mis-sold or that it was 
the responsibility of 247 Money, I didnt require  247 Money  to do anything  further  
regarding this.
247 Money accepted my provisional  decision and paid the £350 compensation to Mr S. 
Mr S noted  that he had never received a copy of the report  he was told had been carried out 
on his car.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Mr S acquired a used car through a HPA with 247 
Money. Under the regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015, 247 Money can 
be held liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality  at the point of supply. Mr S experienced 
a number of issues  shortly after acquisition and I considered whether the issues  were  due to 
faults that were  present at the point of supply (and as such  meant  the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality) or whether they were  due to wear and tear which  would be reasonable 
to expect from a car of Mr S age and mileage.
As I explained, I found that Mr S car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply as it 
wasnt sufficiently durable.  Repairs  were  carried out on the filter, brakes and tracking and as 
I have nothing to say these were  unsuccessful, I find this a reasonable remedy.
I dont find I have enough evidence to say that the tyres werent of a legal limit at acquisition  
and I do not find that the issue with the paintwork  meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
at the point of acquisition  and so I do not require  247 Money to do anything further regarding 
these issues.
I note the comments Mr S has made about  the report  and understand  his frustrations 
regarding this. However as 247 Money  has paid the compensation  I set out in my provisional 
decision I do not require  it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 247 Money Group  Limited has paid the £350 
compensation set out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2480577