K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about Haven  Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his commercial insurance policy.
background
Mr T was involved in an incident in 2016  involving a pedestrian who made a claim against  
him. Haven  considered the circumstances surrounding the case  and eventually  settled the 
claim. Mr T wasnt  happy about  this as he says that there wasnt any contact between him 
and the pedestrian. So, he complained to Haven and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought  
Haven had acted  reasonably in considering  the claim and settling liability. And that this had 
impacted Mr Ts premiums which was understandable.
As Mr T didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know that this will be very disappointing  for Mr T, but Ill explain why.
I can understand how difficult and frustrating Mr T has found all of this. I say this as he was 
at the scene when the incident happened and knows  full well what  did and didnt happen. 
But as our investigator has explained it isnt the role of this service to decide liability,  which is 
a matter for the courts. Although we do look to ensure insurers have acted in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Haven, like most motor insurers, have a clause in the contract that allows  them to take over 
the settlement  of the claim. This gives it the right to decide whether  to proceed to court  or 
settle a claim. And court proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers  are cautious 
about going to court. They look to consider the costs involved and the likelihood  of success  
in making these decisions.
But we look to ensure that insurers act fairly in deciding whether  to settle matters and make 
a reasonable assessment of the claim. Based  on a clear understanding of the evidence and 
circumstances surrounding  the accident.  With this in mind,  I have carefully  considered how 
Haven has handled  Mr Ts claim.  
Haven was approached by the third party and appointed  an investigator to look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the accident  and to interview Mr T. They provided a detailed  
report and statement from Mr T. And Haven considered photographs of the scene;  the 
account and medical  evidence  from the third party; the police report  from the attending 
officer; and the fact that Mr T was prosecuted for driving without  due care and attention  in 
relation to the accident.
Having considered all of this and trying  to defend Mr T, Haven eventually accepted liability. I 
know Mr T isnt happy about this and highlights that he was convicted at court  in his 
absence. But he was convicted  at court in relation to this incident.  And the third party 
provided medical evidence outlining injures  sustained at the time of the incident.  Given all of 
Ref: DRN21101732this I cant conclude that Haven has acted unreasonably  here. And Haven has settled the 
matter on a without  prejudice basis which means that Mr T can still pursue the matter himself 
at court  if he wishes.
Finally, all of this (the fault claim and the points placed on Mr Ts driving licence) has 
affected Mr Ts premium. As outlined by the investigator, Haven has provided some 
evidence showing how this has affected Mr Ts premium. From considering  all of this I think 
it is clear this incident has affected  his premiums. But as I dont think  Haven has done 
anything wrong  in deciding liability, I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2110173