K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should accept responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr O took out on a store card account in July 1998. It 
was added to his account  when he applied  for the card in store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr O says the policy wasnt mentioned to him at the time of the sale and if it had been, he 
wouldnt have taken  it.  But I think FICL  made Mr O aware of the policy,  that he had a choice  
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. I say this because FICL has given us a 
copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This shows  there  was a separate 
section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. Mr O has ticked the box to take the PPI and 
signed the application form so I think this reflected what he wanted. Had Mr O not wanted the 
PPI he could have  completed the application  without ticking a box in the separate  section to 
take the PPI.
Ive also borne in mind  the sale took place over 20 years ago so I dont find it surprising that 
Mr O cannot recall all the details. On balance, I think Mr O was aware  of the policy, that it 
was optional and he agreed to take it out, knowing it was something he could say no to.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL assessed  Mr Os individual needs, such as his employee  
benefits and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This 
meant it didn't  have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr O got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL  gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. So I need to consider if Mr O would  have acted differently and not bought  the policy, if 
better information had been provided.  And on balance I dont think  better  information  would 
have led him to act differently.
Ref: DRN27404722Mr O has told us he had less than three  months sick pay to rely on to repay the monthly 
repayment on the card if he became too unwell to work. This policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any employee benefits Mr O would receive. I think the PPI could  have been  
useful to him in that his store card payments would be met. It also would have provided 
additional cover  if Mr O lost his job. I couldnt see any significant  or limiting terms  such as 
a pre-existing medical condition - that would have affected Mr Os decision to take the policy  
out either.
Im not sure FICL gave clear information  on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think  this 
would have affected Mr Os decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all Mr Os comments,  but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2740472