K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) in 
relation to his savings  account.
background
Mr D says hes had difficulty accessing the funds in his Barclays savings bond, as an 
overseas resident. And he phoned Barclays to give instructions about the funds two weeks  
before the bond was due to mature,  but they werent  actioned.   
Mr D also says Barclays told him it couldnt make a transfer of funds overseas from this type 
of savings account. It said it could issue a cheque, which wouldnt help him. Or it could make 
the payment to a UK current account,  but hed need  to open one first.
Mr D also says Barclays declined to reopen his former current  account with it and it also 
rejected his application to open a basic  current account.
So Mr D says he wants Barclays to reopen  his former current  account; to give him credible 
reasons for being unable to open  a basic current account in his name; and to pay him £400 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  hes experienced as a result of this 
situation.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Ds complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said Mr Ds ability to 
operate his savings account was hampered by his non UK resident status.  Barclays  was 
unable to make an international transfer  from his savings  account. But it had agreed  to let  
Mr D break  his savings bond early  without penalty  if he decided to close it.
The adjudicator also said although Mr D was an EU citizen, he wasnt  eligible to open a 
basic current account as hes currently residing outside the EU.
Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions. He said hes of the opinion that Barclays 
had to transfer his funds  at his request and must take all necessary steps to facilitate the 
transaction.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ds savings bond. These say funds payable  on 
maturity will either be paid into a nominated  Barclays  account  or will be paid to him by 
cheque. So, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to decline to make  an international 
transfer of the funds,  in the circumstances.  And I see the only other Barclays  account  Mr D 
holds is an ISA, which doesnt permit him to make deposits as a non UK resident.  
I also see Mr D previously had a Barclays current account that it closed as a result  of 
inactivity in 2009.  In view of the length of time since that account was closed I think  it was 
reasonable for Barclays to decline to reopen  it at this stage. I also think Barclays is right that 
Ref: DRN24114892Mr D isnt eligible to open a new basic current account, as these accounts are only available 
to applicants residing  in the UK or EU, whereas Mr D currently resides  elsewhere overseas.  
Barclays has agreed to let Mr D break  his savings bond early, without penalty, if and when 
he decides to close it. I think this is reasonable. And its also suggested  he looks at his 
international banking options,  if hes unable to accept a sterling cheque for the funds.
Ive reviewed the handling of Mr Ds complaint by Barclays and I see the notes its given us 
detail several occasions  when it says it followed Mr Ds instructions to make  contact  with him 
overseas. Its also acknowledged it couldve taken steps to communicate with him by email 
more quickly, but I dont think this delay was sufficiently  serious  to make it fair for me to 
require Barclays to pay Mr D any compensation, in the circumstances.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020. 
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2411489