K822xcomplaint
Mr Ds complaint is that he was advised  by Velenski & Co Ltd (Velenski) to make  a large
pension contribution in the 2013/14 tax year when in fact he was only entitled to receive tax
relief on a much lower amount based on his earned  income that year.
As a result, Mr Ds pension now has to repay the excess tax relief granted  and Mr Ds lost
the opportunity  to otherwise invest the funds. Hell also have  to pay tax on any income
withdrawn from the fund.
background 
After advice from Velenski  Mr D made two extra contributions totalling £190,400  into his
SIPP (self invested personal pension)  for the 2013/14 tax year. Those contributions  were  in
addition to contributions totalling  £2,000  already committed to the SIPP.
Velenski accepts that it made an error. Mr D wanted to maximise  his pension contributions 
but he wouldnt have  wanted to make  contributions that didnt attract tax relief.  His relevant 
earnings in the 2013/14  tax year meant he was only entitled to receive  tax relief on £51,219.
Ive considered Mr Ds complaint before.  I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2021.  
my provisional decision
I said, where, as here, a business accepts it has made an error, the only remaining issue  will 
usually be how things  should be put right for the complainant. In some cases, that wont  be 
straightforward. 
From what  Id seen, Mr Ds losses totalled £16,494.77, including £500 for distress  and 
inconvenience. The other items  were: Velenskis fees (£7,140); Mr Ds representatives  and 
accountants fees (£876 and £1,171.50 respectively);  and costs  (£6,807.27) incurred  in 
connection with a loan arrangement to allow the SIPP to repay  to Mr D the unrelieved 
contributions and avoid him incurring any tax liability when he came  to withdraw those 
contributions.
The £6,807.27 was made up of five years interest on the loan (£6,387.27) plus Mr Ds 
representatives costs  in drawing up the loan agreement (£420 inclusive of VAT). A loan was 
necessary as there was insufficient cash in the SIPP to repay Mr D and would  otherwise  
mean the commercial  property held in the SIPP would have to be sold.  
I thought Mr Ds costs or expenses might be more. In particular I wasnt sure Id seen full 
details of all his representatives fees (although these shouldnt include assisting Mr D in 
bringing his complaint to us). It was also possible that HMRC could impose  penalties.  And 
there was no interest or growth on the refund of fees. There might also be other fees Id 
overlooked. 
My understanding was that an offer made earlier by Velenski of £22,000  remained open.  I 
said that was a reasonable offer and left some  margin for other costs  and any penalties  
imposed by HMRC.  I thought Mr D should accept  that offer. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN29502802Velenski said its offer had been  withdraw and any award should be based on the actual 
losses Mr D had suffered.  
We explained to Mr Ds representative that Id issued  my provisional  decision on the basis  
the offer remained open, but it had in fact been withdrawn. From what  Id seen, redress  
amounted to £16,494.77. If Mr Ds actual and any potential future  losses were more,  details 
should be supplied,  with any evidence in support.
In response, Mr Ds representative clarified that its costs totalled £6,468.48 (inclusive of 
VAT). And, in addition to the fee of £420 (including VAT) for setting up the loan, thered be a 
yearly fee of £100  plus VAT to administer the loan. Over  the loans five year term that would  
be £600. Mr Ds representative suggested a margin for other costs and any penalties  
imposed by HMRC  should also be allowed. On that basis a final settlement of £24,000  would 
be equitable. 
We put that to Velenski and shared the invoices for fees that Mr Ds representative had 
provided. We added that, having reviewed the additional information provided,  I didnt think  
£24,000 was unreasonable.  
Velenski didnt agree. It said that was a considerable departure from my provisional decision  
and asked that I issue a new provisional decision.  I did that on 26 April 2021. Wed also 
asked Mr Ds representative  to provide  breakdowns of its charges which  we shared with 
Velenski.  
my further provisional decision
In summary  I said:
I didnt disagree that my award  should  be based  on Mr Ds actual  losses.  But there 
was an issue about if he might incur further  losses in the form of HMRC  penalties.  
Mr Ds losses  were higher than the £16,494.97 Id referred to in my provisional  
decision. In particular his representatives  fees were an extra £5,592.48. 
Id seen breakdowns  for all the fees.  The charges were  on a time spent basis.  The 
hourly rate depended on the level of fee earner undertaking the particular task. All in 
all, I didnt think the further sums  were excessive  or disproportionate, taking into 
account the complexities of the matter, the amounts involved, that liaison with a 
number of parties was required  and how long the matter was ongoing. And the yearly  
fee for administering  the loan wasnt excessive. By my calculations,  the revised  total 
figure was £22,687.45. 
The main remaining issue was whether the award should  include any provision for 
the possibility  of penalties being  imposed.  To date thered be no suggestion that 
would be the case. Given that the overpaid tax was repaid some time ago, there was 
a diminishing  chance  of any penalties.  
I proposed to round up the £22,687.45 to £23,000. That covered  Mr Ds losses  and 
gave him some  return on the amounts hed had to expend. 
responses to my further provisional decision
Mr D confirmed he accepted my further provisional  decision. He didnt have any further 
comments. 
Ref: DRN29502803Velenski said it was prepared to settle  the matter by offering the £23,000 Id proposed. It 
provided a suggested form of acceptance  for Mr D to sign.  Alternatively, Velenski  said it 
would await my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have accepted the further  provisional  decision  I issued on 26 April 2021 and my 
proposed award  of £23,000.  
In the circumstances, and in the absence of any further comments from either  party, I dont 
have anything to add to what Ive said previously  and as summarised above. I know  both 
parties are keen to bring this matter  to a close. 
Im therefore  upholding the complaint  and making  an award of £23,000 to Mr D. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint.
Velenski & Co Ltd must  pay redress of £23,000  to Mr D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2950280