K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy because Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited wont pay her contents 
insurance claim for water damage to her contents due to the property being un-occupied.
background
In June 2018 Mrs S had a serious  water  leak in her property. She reported  a claim to her 
buildings insurer and it was decided that she and her family couldnt  live in the house until it 
was repaired.  They moved into alternative  accommodation in mid-July. Then, in September 
a further leak occurred. This time it damaged not only the building,  but also several contents 
items. She reported  a claim to Lloyds,  who insured  her contents. Ultimately Lloyds said it 
couldnt pay the claim as Mrs S and her family had been out of the property for more than 30 
days and she should have notified  it as required  by her policy terms. As well as not paying  
the claim,  it also put endorsements on the policy concerning regular inspections  of the home  
and draining down of the heating system, for which she had to pay an increased premium.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said she couldnt say that Lloyds had done  
anything wrong  by applying the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs Ss son responded  on her behalf  that they were  unhappy. He or another  family member  
went to the house every  day and there  were  workmen there so they didnt think  it was un-
occupied. He also said they hadnt previously  seen the policy booklet and thought the 
decision was unfair because the situation  wasnt their fault.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has rejected Mrs Ss claim for her damaged contents because,  under the terms of the 
policy, she was required to notify  it if the property  became unoccupied for more than 30 
days. I fully understand that it wasnt her fault that she had to leave her home. She has 
separate buildings and contents insurance  policies and her contents  werent  damaged at the 
time of the first leak. But she was required separately to tell her contents  insurer about the 
building becoming  un-occupied,  at least once the 30 days  were  up.
Mrs Ss son asserted that the house wasnt un-occupied,  as he or other  family  members 
were there every day. But they werent there  at night and under the policy  unoccupied 
means:
Not lived in by you or a member of your family for more than 30 days  in a row. 
Please note, a property  will only be considered occupied if it is lived in by you or a member  
of your family and contains essential  items for normal living purposes,  for example cooking  
appliances, sanitary fittings and beds.
I dont think that visiting  the home during the day means it can be described as lived  in, 
especially as no-one stayed there overnight. So I think it can fairly be said that Mrs S should 
have told Lloyds as soon as they were moved  out, at least once she knew it would be for 
more than 30 days.
Ref: DRN28005562Now I fully appreciate that as no contents were damaged at first Mrs S probably didnt think  
to advise Lloyds.  But it is a requirement  of the insurance and one that home insurance 
policies generally  have. I know that Mrs S says she hasnt received her policy booklet. This 
isnt something that would be sent every year, and I dont know how long she has had her 
contents insurance with Lloyds.  Generally  it would  be sent the first year the policy  is taken 
out and then any amendments notified  each year, and I havent seen any evidence that 
anything different happened here.
So whilst I have every  sympathy  for Mrs Ss situation, I cant  say that Lloyds acted 
unreasonably. It was her responsibility to notify Lloyds. I understand that Lloyds has put 
endorsements on the policy (as I've set out in the background above)  whilst the home is 
unoccupied. Unfortunately  its entitled to do this, and to increase  the premium.  The fact the 
property is unoccupied means it presents as a greater risk.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2800556