K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC acted unfairly and unreasonably when 
dealing with their commercial loan. They want compensation and a new loan.
background 
Mr and Mrs R, through  a limited company, ran a business. The commercial premises from 
which the business operated was subject to a loan with Barclays taken out through a broker 
(Barclays also held a charge over the assets of the company who guaranteed the loan).  
Mr and Mrs R decided to sell the company and keep  the premises, and asked Barclays  in 
August 2018 what would need to done  to run the company once sold from the premises.  
Barclays told them that it needed to see the lease between Mr and Mrs R and the new 
owners. 
But about ten days before  completion  in October  2018, when the lease was completed, 
Barclays told Mr and Mrs R that the loan didnt permit the premises  to be rented out, and it 
wouldnt remove its charge over the assets  of the company unless the loan was paid in full; 
Mr and Mrs R either  needed a new loan or to pay off the current  loan. Mr and Mrs R paid off 
the loan, but said the situation was very stressful.
Mr and Mrs R complained  to Barclays. It agreed that Mr and Mrs R had been given incorrect  
information and paid £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr and Mrs R 
complained to us, and said that they wanted  more compensation for the stress they suffered 
and having to use their money to pay off the loan, as opposed to contributing to a pension or 
making other  investments (and the potential loss of tax relief).  They  also wanted a new loan.
The investigators view was that the situation was complex. Barclays had security over the 
commercial premises owned by Mr and Mrs R, and to ensure payment, it also had a 
guarantee and a charge  over the assets of the limited  company. The company was being 
sold, but Mrs R only asked Barclays about the charge over the premises. This was when the 
incorrect information was given. The investigator pointed out that Mr and Mrs Rs advisers, 
including solicitors, shouldve realised earlier that the charge over the company needed to be 
dealt with; she said Mr and Mrs R themselves shouldve known the position as they signed 
all the agreements when  the loan was first taken out and were advised at the time.
The investigator said in the circumstances, the only options were to pay off the loan in full or 
try and get an investment loan; she noted  that if Mr and Mrs R had applied  to Barclays  for 
such a loan, the application  wouldnt have  met its lending policies, but it was willing  to 
consider making  an exception. The investigator  stated  that due to the charge over the 
companys assets,  it was always  necessary  to repay  the loan in order  to sell the business, 
but that was when the possibility of taking out a new loan wouldve been relevant.  
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs R hadnt taken out a new loan over the building, 
despite the passage of time and Barclays being  willing to discuss  the matter. She said that 
as the new loan was always required (unless Mr and Mrs R simply paid off the loan), the 
costs of application shouldnt be paid by Barclays. The investigator thought £300 
compensation was fair and reasonable for the trouble  and upset caused by the incorrect 
information given  by Barclays.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed.  They said that they hadnt  understood  the situation  fully and 
possibly hadnt  been given a full explanation by their advisers.
Ref: DRN21843472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role isnt to punish businesses for 
making a mistake,  but to put customers back into the position that they shouldve  been in if 
the mistake hadnt  happened. Its also relevant that this is a commercial loan and there are 
greater expectations  about the knowledge  and understanding of business people,  compared 
to ordinary members of the public dealing with residential loans.
Did Barclays make a mistake? It didnt give Mrs R wholly correct information, but having 
listened to the calls,  I can understand how the mistake was made. Mrs R didnt explain the 
full situation, but equally  Barclays didnt explain that the original loan would have to be 
repaid and that there was a possibility of applying for an investment loan instead.  It wouldve 
been correct to say that if Mr and Mrs R needed a new loan to replace the original loan, the 
lease would be relevant; in essence, not enough  information was given in August.
What wouldve happened if the mistake hadnt been  made?  Mr and Mrs R wouldve still been 
required to repay the loan over the premises in order to sell the company  free of its 
guarantee and charge over its assets. I cant say that any application for an investment loan 
wouldve been successful  (though  Mr and Mrs R wouldve had to pay the application fees), 
particularly as the application wouldve been dealt with outside  of the normal  lending  
policies. And Barclays  might reasonably have asked why it was being approached for a loan 
when Mr and Mrs R had sufficient money  themselves.
There are unusual features to this complaint. Mr and Mrs R were  advised by a financial 
adviser and solicitor; a broker was involved  when the loan was taken out and both advisers  
and solicitors were involved when the business  was sold. Barclays  security over the 
premises and the company  was registered. It isnt clear  why Mr and Mrs R were unaware  
that the sale couldnt proceed without the loan over the premises being paid in order to 
release the company to sell it. They signed the documents (saying that they understood 
them) when the loan structure  was set up, and this was a commercial arrangement.  And 
given the time to deal with the sale, again it seems none of the professionals  involved 
explained the situation to Mr and Mrs R or contacted Barclays formally, as would be normal.
Mr and Mrs R havent applied for an investment loan, either from Barclays or another  lender, 
despite the passage of time. Im not satisfied that if Barclays  had given  full correct 
information in August  2018 that Mr and Mrs R wouldve applied for a loan or been successful 
in such an application.  Theres  also no evidence before me that it wasnt possible to delay 
the sale of the business  to allow Mr and Mrs R to see if other  lending  was available. I note 
from the calls with Barclays, Mr and Mrs Rs first response was to say theyd repay the loan 
as they had the money. I dont think that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require 
Barclays to give Mr and Mrs R a loan or compensate for the alleged  financial losses  in all the 
circumstances of this case.
But Mr and Mrs R did suffer trouble  and upset due to the incorrect  information received from 
Barclays. Money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, and Ive found that its more 
likely than not that the incorrect information made no real practical  difference  to the final 
outcome. Considering all the evidence, I think £300 compensation is a fair and reasonable 
reflection of the trouble  and upset suffered by Mr and Mrs R for this mistake, as opposed to 
the whole  situation. Selling a business  is a stressful period  in a persons life.
Ref: DRN21843473my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2184347