K821x#15complaint
Miss A complains  that Madison CF UK Limited  (trading as 118 118 Money)  gave her a loan 
which she couldnt afford. 
background
In June 2015, Miss A applied for a £1,500 loan online from Madison. The monthly  
repayments were around £114 over 24 months.  The interest rate was 71.37%  per year and 
the total repayable was around  £2,700.  
Miss A says Madison should  have realised she was struggling financially and had been  
using borrowing just to meet  every day living expenses. She says this loan was unaffordable 
and she had to continue borrowing from other  lenders in order to keep up with her 
repayments. 
Madison didnt think it had done  anything wrong. Madison said it asked her extensive  
questions about her circumstances  and used industry standard  verification  checks  to 
confirm the information she had provided on her application form. In addition to this, it said it 
completed a welcome  call with Miss A where  she told Madison she thought the loan was 
affordable to her.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He didnt think  that Madison carried 
out a proportionate  or adequate assessment of Miss As ability to repay the loan. He said 
from the information Madison had available, it could see she was significantly overdrawn in 
both of her current accounts.  And she had a number  of financial commitments for which  
shed already showed signs of being  unable to maintain sustainably.  So he didnt think 
Madison should  have  approved the loan. He recommended Madison  remove  all interest and 
charges from the loan and any adverse data from her credit  file.
Miss A accepted  the investigators recommendation, but Madison didnt. In summary it said:
The loan was for £1,500 which is at the lower  end of the range of loans Madison 
offer. Miss A was also given the representative APR. 
The credit  check which was carried out showed Miss A had total debts of around 
£10,000 across 15 different accounts (three of which were  mobile  phone  contracts). 
This showed she had a relatively low debt exposure. 
The system  was able to verify Miss As income  of around £1,333  per month.  It also 
used industry standard values when calculating her outgoings  as well as reviewing 
information on her credit file. The system used the highest values from all the figures 
it obtained and this still showed  that Miss A would be left with £265.20 in disposable 
income each month after making  the loan repayments. For this reason the system 
didnt flag the application as needing further checks. In any event, Miss A confirmed 
in the welcome  call that the loan was affordable  to her.
Although the customer was overdrawn  on both of her current  accounts, banks do 
offer higher overdraft limits compared  to a customers wages. Customers dont have 
to be in a credit  balance  on their current account in order for them to be considered 
as having been  run well. The credit check showed shed used her overdraft facilities  
correctly and had a good repayment history for the two years that could be seen. 
The affordability checks  confirmed  Miss A could repay all of her existing borrowing 
and still had money left to spend.  It appears  Miss A continued to take out lots of 
Ref: DRN27372552borrowing after this loan was approved  and it was this further borrowing that caused 
her to enter financial difficulties. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time Madison lent to Miss A required it to carry out 
a reasonable and proportionate assessment of her ability to sustainably repay the borrowing. 
This is often  referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability  check.  This check had 
to be borrower-focused,  which means  it was about Miss As ability to repay, and not about  
Madisons credit risk  or the likelihood  it would get its money back.
Whats considered a proportionate check will depend on many factors including  but not 
limited to:
Miss As circumstances, such as her lending history; and
The amount  she was borrowing, as well as the type of loan, the term, the size of the 
repayments and the overall  cost of borrowing;
What this means is that for the same customer a proportionate  check  could look different for 
different loan applications. And a proportionate check for the same  loan could look different 
for different customers. 
The main  thrust of Madisons argument centres  around the robustness of its automated 
systems and how it assessed affordability. But just because  it has an automated  system in 
place, it doesnt  immediately follow that its lending  decision was a fair one. Having thought 
about the circumstances of this case carefully, Im not persuaded that its assessment of 
Miss As ability to repay  sustainably was reasonable. Ill explain why. 
The credit check Madison carried out showed Miss A couldnt have been in a position to 
sustainably repay  any further borrowing. In fact, it ought to have been obvious that she 
currently couldnt sustainably repay  the borrowing she already had. 
Madison says that Miss A only had around £10,000  in debts and this wasnt  a significant 
amount. But its not good enough  to simply  think of the overall debt in this way. Madison 
needed to think  about whether that was significant  to Miss A and her circumstances and how 
she was managing those debts. Miss A earnt  a relatively modest income,  so for her, £10,000  
was a significant level of debt. 
Madison says she was managing her debts  well. But I disagree and Im concerned  that 
Madison thinks that what it saw was indications of good repayment and sustainable 
borrowing. In summary,  Miss As credit check showed Madison that:
She had a default registered against her in the previous 12 months.  
She had two current accounts.  The first had a £2,500 overdraft limit which  she was 
consistently at the limit (or very close to it) and had exceeded that limit twice  in the 
last six months. The second had a £2,000  overdraft limit which she was close  to 
exceeding every  month. 
Ref: DRN27372553She held three credit cards which she was almost at her limit on (she had used 99% 
of her available credit). In the previous six months  shed been  over her credit  limit a 
total of five times across those accounts. It also appeared she was only making the 
minimum payments towards these  debts. 
Shed  been  borrowing regularly on home credit loans, which  are expensive short-
term arrangements. 
She had two mail order accounts,  one of which was at its limit and the other  had a 
balance which was increasing month  on month.  Her monthly  payments appeared to 
be only the minimum required.
She had other unsecured loans.
This demonstrated that Miss A was struggling  to meet her current credit commitments.  Shed 
regularly gone  over her credit and overdraft limits very recently and was in a position where 
she was utilising almost  100%  of her available credit  already.
Madison says that its check  worked  out that she had over £260 in disposable income each 
month. But if that were  true, it should have questioned why shed  been  taking out further 
borrowing and going further and further  into debt. The loan Miss A applied  for was to be 
repaid over two years with an APR of 99%.  I think Madison ought to have realised  that it was 
providing Miss A with expensive credit at a time when her finances  were already stretched 
and showed she was in financial difficulty. 
I dont think Madison properly scrutinised the information it received  from the credit  check.  
This means  I dont  think it carried out a reasonable assessment of Miss As ability to 
sustainably repay  the borrowing. At the very least,  it ought to have obtained more detailed  
and personalised information about  her outgoings  first. This is because  the industry  
standard data it used clearly wasnt appropriate  or relevant to Miss As particular situation 
based on what it had found out. For the same  reason, it wasnt  reasonable to rely on the 
self-declared expenditure Miss A had input  on her application  which in any event  was 
lower than the industry standard data Madison used.  
But even if Madison had asked more  questions or obtained further evidence of outgoings  
from Miss A, I still dont  think  it ought  to have lent to her. This is because  it was already clear  
that she didnt  have any disposable  income (or very little), as her current accounts were 
being used to their limits  already. Not only that, but she wasnt  able to sustainably  repay her 
credit card and mail order accounts  as she could only just about pay the minimum payments  
each month  and was regularly  going over her limit. She was already having to utilise other 
borrowing (as can be seen from her overdraft usage)  in order to meet  her existing  credit  
commitments.
Madison says that Miss A didnt get into financial difficulty until she took out further 
borrowing several months after their loan was approved. But I dont agree. The evidence  
Madison has provided in support of this shows she had to take out further borrowing  in order  
to meet  the repayments on the loan Madison gave her and her other  existing debts. 
The month after this loan was approved Miss A took out a payday loan and a further credit 
card. Another two credit cards were  opened the month after that. So clearly  this 
demonstrates that Miss A was in a position where  she was desperate for credit and had to 
take out further borrowing  in order to repay her existing debts. And as Ive said above,  I think 
it should have  been clear  to Madison prior to approving the loan that Miss A was unlikely to 
be able to repay it without  taking  out this further borrowing. 
Ref: DRN27372554So taking everything into account I think Madison unfairly and unreasonably provided Miss A 
with the loan. This is because it failed to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of her ability to repay,  as it could already see she wasnt able to sustainably  
repay the borrowing.
As I dont think Miss A should have  been given the loan,  I dont think its fair that she has to 
pay any interest or charges on what she borrowed. It also wouldnt be fair for Madison to 
record adverse data about  this loan on her credit  file. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Madison CF UK Limited to:
Refund all interest  and charges applied to the loan. If this refund results in an 
overpayment to the loan, then it should  pay that overpayment to Miss A.
Madison should  also add 8% simple interest per year on any overpayment amount. 
This should be calculated from the date Miss A would have repaid the loan (if no 
interest or charges had been added)  to the date of settlement.  
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss As credit  file. 
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Madison to take tax off the interest part of my award.  If 
Miss A asks for one, Madison must give her a certificate showing how much tax its taken off. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2737255