K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy with the premiums charged  on his home insurance with Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited. Mr M has brought the complaint  on Mr As behalf. 
background
Mr As insurance policy was taken out in 2010 and cost £262.84 for the year. Mr As 
premium increased over the years and in 2017,  was £715.48. Mr A engaged  at renewal in 
July 2018 and received a discount  of £181.99.  The policy  was cancelled in October  2018.  
Mr A thinks  Lloyds  has taken advantage  of him by unfairly increasing  the cost of the policy  
every year. He says he was a loyal customer and has been  overcharged.  He thinks  he 
should be reimbursed  for the extra he paid over the years.
Lloyds offered to refund  some  of the cost of the insurance for the 2013  premium onward. It 
initially refunded  Mr A £445, and has since offered a further  £623.37. So Lloyds total offer is 
£1,068.37  plus interest of 8% to recognise the time Mr A was out of pocket. Lloyds has 
also offered £100  to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A. 
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things. Mr A disagreed  and didnt 
think the offer was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mr A fairly  throughout the period he held his 
insurance policy.
If I find that Lloyds hasnt treated Mr A fairly, I will look to see what  compensation would be 
fair and in this case, whether I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
When Mr As policy started in 2010, it cost £262.84  for the year. Presumably Mr A was 
happy with the price  at that time as he decided to go ahead  and take out the policy.  If he 
wasnt happy with what Lloyds was offering, he could have gone  elsewhere to get a different 
policy.
Its not uncommon that policies have an introductory  discount  and may well initially  be priced 
lower to attract new customers. I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup that 
cost over the first few years and I think its likely thats that happened here. 
If Lloyds increased the price just because Mr A didnt engage  at renewal, that wouldnt be 
fair. Lloyds  has offered  to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums  from 2013 
onwards. Lloyds total offer is £1,068.37 (£445 of which  has already been refunded to Mr A), 
plus interest of 8% for the time he was out of pocket. I think  this offer is fair. 
Mr M feels this offer is too low. He says Mr A was significantly overcharged and that Mr A 
was vulnerable, losing his job through  a mental  health disability.  He says Mr A trusted 
Ref: DRN24910962Lloyds and is extremely unhappy with how it treated him. Ive thought  about this, but given  
what Ive said about the introductory  discount, I think the offer is fair. In the first few years of 
the policy, Lloyds  wouldve  been  recouping the initial discount  applied to the policy. Also,  
Lloyds wouldnt have  known in the earlier years  that Mr A wasnt the type of person to shop 
around for cheaper  insurance. That wouldnt have become  apparent for some  years.  So it 
would be difficult to say that Lloyds wasnt treating Mr A fairly in the earlier years and needs 
to refund him more.
Mr M says the overcharging  of insurance resulted in Mr As overdraft charges and debt. I do 
understand why he feels  this way  Mr A would  naturally have found it difficult  to meet all of 
his outgoings  when he lost his job, so any overpayment on bills wouldve been difficult  for 
him. But I think, whether or not Lloyds overcharged him, he wouldve had a home insurance 
that he would have to pay. And Lloyds  have refunded him some  of his premium  from 2013 
onwards if they did overcharge  him. And its added 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate him for any time he might have been  out of pocket. 
Given that Mr A was out of work at the time, its difficult to say it was the cost of home 
insurance that caused him to be overdrawn and pay overdraft  fees.  I think  its more likely to 
be a result of his wider  circumstances at the time. But I think the 8% per year simple  interest  
is enough to compensate Mr A for the financial problems it might  have caused.
Mr M also says he was able to find Mr A a new policy in 2019 for £125 with another  insurer  
so significantly less than the premium on his existing policy. Ive thought about this. But I 
must also take into account that any new policy quoted in 2019  probably included an 
introductory discount on the premium  cost and different  insurers will have a different view of 
the risk of insuring a particular property. So I cant agree Mr A was treated unfairly by Lloyds 
just because hes now been able to get cheaper  cover. And it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to 
use this different policy cost when  working  out its offer. 
Mr M also makes  the point that Mr A never claimed on the policy, so there was no valid 
reason for any extortionate increases. But having  carefully considered Lloyds  offer, I think  
its fair. It makes sure Mr A didnt lose out if Lloyds  had unfairly  increased the price  just 
because he didnt engage at renewal or shop around. 
I also think Lloyds additional  compensation offer of £100 that it made  for the trouble caused  
to Mr A, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited offer to refund some of 
the costs of Mr As policy from 2013 is fair.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limiteds additional  compensation  offer of £100 for the 
trouble caused  to Mr A is also fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2491096