K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains on behalf of his business, M, that his broker,  West Pennine Insurance 
Consultants Ltd (WP)  failed to provide the companys insurer  with the correct  information 
which led to the insurer voiding  Ms policy and declining  its claim.
background
Mr F made a claim for theft of Ms property. The claim was investigated by Ms insurer  who 
voided its policy back to inception on the grounds  that misrepresentations of material facts  
were made when the policy  was taken out. The insurer said two thefts before the policy  
started werent declared nor was the scale of a previous  liquidation. The insurer  also said 
that Ms premises was inadequately secured, contrary to policy  conditions.
Mr F complained to WP saying that he fully informed it of all material facts and if this had 
been questioned and correctly passed on, Ms insurers wouldnt have voided the policy. 
WP said its adviser took down the information  M provided. It said it obtained a quote  and a 
Statement of Fact detailing the information and policy conditions and sent this to M. WP said 
a further quote  and Statement of Fact were provided  to M with the same advice to check the 
information carefully and tell it of any errors.  It said M didnt correct  any of the information  in 
the statement  and so the information provided  became  the basis of the insurance contract.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said the call notes of WPs  
adviser who dealt  with M showed there  were  'no claims  or losses' and that a 'previous 
company went into liquidation for £30,000. He said WP then emailed M the Statement of 
Fact on two occasions and said, 'Please check all information is correct'.
The investigator said the Statement  of Fact recorded No to the question,  'Within the last 5 
years, have  you or any of your Partners or Directors  in connection with any business  which  
you/ they have  been  involved had any losses whether insured or not or had any claims made 
against you?' The investigator said M included the statement,  'Previously Directors of 
(another business)  which  went into liquidation  owing £30,000  to creditors. The company was 
not paid by a customer  which sent them into liquidation. Insolvency was September  2016, 
debts to creditors not settled. The investigator said both statements were incorrect.
The investigator said it was Ms responsibility  to ensure the Statement of Fact was correct 
and the directors  were given two opportunities to review this. He said WP had acted fairly. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigator.  He said they hadnt told WP about the previous break-
in as there was no loss or claim. He said they hadnt said they were  liquidated  for £30,000  or 
for any amount  as they didnt  know what this was, they had said they went  into liquidation 
because a customer didnt pay £30,000  that was owed to them.  
Mr F said they hadnt received the Statement of Fact and WP hadnt recorded  its call with 
them. He said WP just sent a letter  on which many  of Ms answers were hard to read due to 
the position of WPs  logo. He said WP didnt  check with M when no response was made to 
the Statements of Fact. Mr F said they had answered all questions  in good  faith and have 
lost thousands  of pounds through no fault of their own.
Ref: DRN25808562The investigator said an attempted theft/ break-in would still fall under losses. He thought 
the question about this was sufficiently clear for Mr F to know that the insurer  was asking 
whether they had suffered  any losses regardless of whether they had claimed for these. 
Mr F said it must be standard practice by insurers to validate data such  as insolvency, rather 
than simply noting it. Mr F said hes used to reading contracts, but he had to read the 
Statement of Fact closely to see what the investigator was trying to point out. He said the 
warnings werent clearly written. Mr F said M was set up to fail from the start by the insurers 
and had been failed by our service which is meant to be unbiased. He said all questions 
were answered completely and fairly. He requested an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have not upheld this 
complaint. I realise  this will be a disappointment to the directors of M and I will explain the 
reasons I have reached this outcome.
Mr F said that Ms data and statements should  have been validated by its insurer.  This 
complaint is against  Ms broker,  WP and I have  looked  at whether or not WP failed to collect  
and pass on accurate information  about  M to the insurer, as Mr F suggests. 
In order to uphold  a complaint against  WP I would need to see that it had made a mistake or 
provided poor to M. In deciding about this I have to bear in mind that it was Ms responsibility 
under The Insurance Act 2015 to make  a fair presentation of its circumstances in order to 
allow the insurer to decide whether or not to offer cover and on what terms.   
Its unfortunate theres no recording of the call between Mr F and WPs adviser. But there is 
a lot of detail about Ms circumstances that its directors provided contained within the 
quotation and Statements of Fact provided  to M. 
The quotation document that was sent to M included the following, Introductory Statement;
Please check this quotation and accompanying Statement of Fact very carefully.  The 
purpose of the statement of fact is to confirm the information provided to us by you or your 
broker when arranging your insurance .
The Statement of Fact was sent to M on two occasions. It specifically requires the directors  
to confirm that they have checked  the information,  understood  the questions, and are aware 
of the consequences of not correcting any incorrect information. In effect this requires the 
directors of M to ensure  they have made a fair presentation of their risk to the insurer.
I think if Ms directors had reviewed the Statement  of Fact as required,  they would have seen 
that the information about M was incorrect. The question  about claims refers to both claims 
and losses, whether insured or not. And I think that Ms two previous break-ins should have 
been recorded here.
Mr F said the question about  previous liquidation  was unclear. Im not sure thats  correct,  but 
if it was unclear, Mr F could  have  sought clarification from WP. The document  tells 
policyholders to contact  their broker if any of the information is incorrect  and includes a clear  
warning of the consequences  of not doing  so. 
Ref: DRN25808563Please check this form immediately. If any of the information is incorrect  please  call your 
broker on their usual  number  failure to do so could invalidate  the policy  from inception or 
result in a claim being repudiated.
WPs advisers call notes record 'previous  company went into liquidation for £30,000 and I 
think that accurately  reflects what the adviser was told. The Statement  of Fact showed  that 
this was the amount owed to creditors, but this was incorrect.
Ms Statement of Fact concludes with a Confirmation:
I confirm that I have fully read and understood:
(i) the introductory  statement;  and
(ii) the above questions and information.
I understand that if I do not tell you about changes or have provided incorrect information,  
the wrong terms and conditions  may have been quoted and you may be entitled to:
 reject payment  of a claim or a payment could be reduced, or
 revise the premium  and/or change any excess,  or
 revise the extent of cover or terms of this insurance.
In some circumstances  your policy might be invalid,  and you may not be entitled to a refund 
of premium.
This was answered, Yes.
Mr F said the warnings on the forms about providing  incorrect information werent clearly set 
out. I disagree. I think the consequences of incorrectly stating the circumstances of the 
business were clear as was the encouragement  to contact the broker to correct any errors.  
The advice about this appeared on forms sent to M as well as emails  from WPs adviser. 
Having looked  closely at what took place  between M and WP I think that WP treated M fairly 
and reasonably. I havent found that WP failed to collect and pass  on accurate information  
about M to the insurer. I dont think that WP made  a mistake or provided an incorrect service  
to M and so I dont  require  it to take any action  in respect of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F on behalf of 
his business, to accept or reject my decision  before  15 June 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2580856