K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Sun Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited (SLOC) didnt 
make more effort to contact him when his Income  Security Plan was reviewed. Because  he 
wasnt contacted  it resulted  in him receiving  a lower monthly benefit than he was expecting.
background
Mr W took out an Income Security Plan (the plan)  with SLOC.  The purpose of the plan was 
to pay a monthly income if he was unable to work due to ill health.
Unfortunately Mr W made a claim on his policy and he received a back-dated payment in 
early 2017.  However,  Mr W received around 50% less than he was expecting and queried 
this with SLOC. It wrote back to him and explained  that the benefit, the amount he would 
receive monthly, had been decreased due to reviews that SLOC had carried  out on the plan. 
It explained that it had written  to him in 2005 and 2010 to explain that if he wanted to 
maintain the same monthly benefit his premium would need to increase.
The letter sent in 2005 had been  returned to SLOC as Mr W had changed address. It said it 
had written to his bank  and asked it to forward on its letters and asked him to get in touch 
and update his address details. And as it had heard nothing back, in line with the terms and 
conditions, it had reduced his monthly  benefit rather than increase his monthly  premiums.  
This happened again in 2010.
Mr W, through his representative, complained to SLOC.  In summary the representative  said 
that SLOC should have made more effort to contact Mr W when  his plan was reviewed and 
that as the monthly premiums were  being  paid by direct debit they should have automatically 
increased rather than waiting for his authority to do so.
SLOC looked into the concerns raised. It maintained its stance that it had done nothing  
wrong and had followed the terms and conditions of the plan. The plan was reviewed every  
five years,  and in both 2005  and 2010  the premium needed to be increased to maintain the 
monthly benefit. And as it didnt hear anything from Mr W it kept his premium  the same  but 
reduced his monthly  benefit. It also said it was Mr Ws responsibility to keep his address up 
to date.
Unhappy with the response Mr W brought his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. He thought SLOC  had acted fairly.
Mr W, through his representative, asked  for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank Mr W for his patience whilst our service has been  investigating  his complaint. 
I understand this has been a difficult time for him.
Having reviewed all the information provided by both parties I wont  be asking SLOC to take 
any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN27418222The crux of this complaint is whether SLOC made  enough effort  to trace  Mr W when it 
received returned  mail from his previous  address. I can see that in 2005, when the plan was 
reviewed, it wrote to the bank where the premium  was being paid. It asked the bank to 
forward on its letter to the current address  the bank held for Mr W. It did the same  again in 
2010 following  another review of the plan. 
Mr Ws bank says it has no record that it received the letters.  But I dont necessarily  think  
this means the letters werent sent or that I can hold SLOC responsible  for Mr W not 
receiving them. The responsibility of keeping an insurer up to date with the correct contact 
details sits with the policy holder. If I were satisfied that Mr W had been unable to contact 
SLOC I still dont think it couldve done  anymore.
I think by contacting the bank where the plan monthly premiums  were being paid from it had 
acted fairly  and reasonably. 
Ive also thought about whether SLOC was right to decrease the monthly benefit Mr W would 
receive, rather than increase his premium, in the event that he needed to claim. Im satisfied 
that it was. The plan terms and conditions clearly  set out when reviews  would  take place and 
what could happen  during  a review. They are also clear that SLOC would require the plan 
holders authority, in this case Mr W, to increase the monthly premium.  And as it didnt, it 
decreased his monthly benefit to maintain his existing premium. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr W. But, Im satisfied that the 
actions SLOC took to contact Mr W and subsequent changes made to the plan where in line 
with what I would expect  an insurer to do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Sun Life Assurance  Company 
of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2741822