K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs Y bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Mrs Y initially 
couldnt recall how she applied for the credit card and the PPI policy  but later told us that it 
was sold in-branch.  BoS has said it was a postal sale. 
At the time,  Mrs Y was employed as a service co-ordinator for a healthcare company. She 
has told us she was entitled to less than three  months pay if she was too unwell to work but 
her later recollection is that she didnt think she was entitled to employee sick pay. Mrs Y 
said she was entitled to redundancy pay if she lost her job. Mrs Y didnt have any savings 
she could have used  to make the card repayments if she wasnt  working but has said she 
could have relied upon her husband for financial support. Mrs Y has said she had suffered 
from headaches/migraines since 1951  and had taken a couple of days off from work 
because of them over the years. Mrs Y suffered  from depression  in 1992 and sciatica/back 
pain in 1997. She hadnt taken any time off from work for either  condition.  
The policy provided  cover  for life, critical illness, accident, sickness and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ys credit card 
balance in the event of a successful claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. At the 
time, it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium would continue  
to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account 2004.
Mrs Ys representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ys representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs Y wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ys 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs Y about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs Y and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN24767842The information Mrs Y received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ys. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ys complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So, the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN24767843The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So, Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ys 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
BoS was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ys complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs Y with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs Y sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs Y, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs Y suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs Y and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ys complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN24767844did Mrs Y know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mrs Y has said the PPI policy was included as part of the credit  card package. But BoS has 
been able to give us a copy  of the application form and credit agreement. And I see from that 
form it has been completed by hand  and signed and dated by Mrs Y. There is a separate 
section entitled  CREDIT CARD REPAYMENTS COVER followed by a brief description  
about the policy. I can see that Mrs Y has ticked a box in that section to say YES  I want you 
to arrange Credit Card  Repayments Cover to protect my repayments. If Mrs Y hadnt 
wanted to take the PPI, she could have  left the tick-box blank, completed the rest of the form 
and just taken  the credit  card without the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs Y knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mrs Y couldnt initially recall how the policy  was sold to her. But she later said that it was an 
in-branch sale and she met with three representatives of BoS. BoS has said the credit card 
and PPI were applied for by post.  
I have reviewed the application  form and credit agreement and I think  it looks more likely the 
sale was made by post. I say this because the form has Mrs Ys name and address  pre-
printed on it and the rest of the form is completed  by hand. This is the type of form I would 
expect to see for a postal  sale.  And I see that BoS hasnt processed the application until a 
week after it has been signed and dated  which  suggests to me that it was posted back to 
BoS and then processed, hence the week delay between being completed by Mrs Y and 
processed by BoS.
Because of this I dont think advice was given  and it may be that Mrs Ys recollection of 
being in-branch related to another product  she took with BoS. So, Mrs Y would have 
completed the application both the credit  card and the PPI in her own time and without the 
presence of any representative of BoS. 
This means  BoS didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs Y. Instead, it had to give 
her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mrs Y to make  an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
BoS has provided us with Mrs Ys application form and credit agreement  showing that PPI 
had been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve 
received, including the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of 
probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ys. 
Looking at the documentation provided to Mrs Y at the time,  I dont  think  BoS gave Mrs Y the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN24767845As Ive said above,  Im satisfied this sale most likely took place by post. I can see the credit 
agreement and application form described  the PPI policy as providing  cover against 
accident, sickness, unemployment as well as life and critical illness. It also informed Mrs Y it 
would pay 10% benefit  in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment for up to 12 
months and up to £25,000 of the credit  card balance in the event  of death or critical illness.  
The information provided would have given Mrs Y a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was BoSs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ys attention the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs Y, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BoS adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So, I dont think BoS gave Mrs Y sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ys representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ys. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ys representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs Y about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ys representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs Y has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs Y? To what extent did Mrs Y suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ref: DRN24767846Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs Y. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs Y suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs Y would have still 
taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly. 
Mrs Y says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs Y had to weigh  up in her own mind  the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs Y chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So, what  Mrs Y thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs Y has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs Y ought  reasonably to have known  she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was set out on the application form. But I accept that BoS didnt make  clear the on-going  
cost information.  So, while  Mrs Y didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event 
of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what  she would reasonably have thought  from the 
information she based her decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs Y thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  which  Mrs Y 
knew about or should reasonably have  known about or for which treatment and or 
advice had been suggested by a doctor  during the 12 month  period before the start 
date of the policy and which recurred  within 12 months of the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs Y 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs Y be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience or training 
reasonably qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs Y pause for thought  and may well have  caused her to conclude that the policy 
was not as good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs Y from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ys circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. she was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs Y didnt have any pre-
Ref: DRN24767847existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. I appreciate Mrs Y told us 
about the headaches  she suffered  from, the depression in 1992  and the sciatica/back  pain in 
1997. But the latter two conditions hadnt caused  Mrs Y to take any time off from work  and 
she hadnt told us of any recurrences, and particularly within the 12 month period before the 
policy started so I dont consider these to be ongoing conditions.  And for the headaches, 
Mrs Y told us she had only taken a couple of days off from work  because of them since  
1951. So, I still think she had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs Y might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs Y 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs Y, in her circumstances,  still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs Y had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs Y was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs Y would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting, and she didnt have any means of meeting her credit card 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or sickness and, she thought,  
redundancy with the exception of financial support from her husband. But his circumstances 
may have  changed  so I dont think his offer of help could be guaranteed.  And in those  
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Ys representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs Y would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ys 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs Y 
Ref: DRN24767848found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs Y believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs Y in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs Y compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs Y thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs Y, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2002 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ys representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mrs Y and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs Y in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN24767849
Ref: DRN2476784