K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that the caravan he acquired through  a conditional  sale agreement financed  
by Clydesdale  Financial  Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)  was not 
of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
background
Mr C tells us that in late 2017  he acquired the caravan from a dealer Ill refer to as B. He 
says that in November 2018  - when he came  to have his first annual gas safety  check  
completed - he was advised that the gas hoses with which the caravan was fitted were three 
years out of date. Mr C says he feels that he and his family were put at risk. And that he 
wouldnt have acquired the vehicle if hed known of this issue.
BPF told us that it accepted an error had occurred. But it said that if B had been aware of the 
issue with the gas hoses it wouldve replaced  them before supplying the caravan to Mr C. It 
said it had arranged with B to refund  Mr C the cost of the replacement hoses. And that it 
(BPF) had paid £75 to Mr C by way of compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said he 
understood that finding the hoses were out of date would be distressing. But there was no 
evidence that theyd been damaged. He said that once the issue had been discovered the 
hoses had been replaced. And BPF had arranged with B to refund Mr C the cost of the 
replacement hoses (£264)  along  with £75 compensation. He thought this was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr C didnt agree and said he thought the business was getting away  with it. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr C had such an unpleasant and unnerving experience.  But equally Im 
relieved that more serious consequences didnt result from this failure  to observe safety  
standards.
Mr Cs conditional sale agreement is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BPF supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). Ive also taken into consideration The Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
I note that at various stages in the complaint, both parties have referred to section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Section 75 has no application here as it doesnt apply to a 
conditional sale agreement. As it happens this doesnt materially affect the complaint itself 
as the substance of Mr Cs complaint  - that there was a breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation of the vehicle - is covered under the CRA and section 56 of the CCA.
Ref: DRN24646702The basic  facts in this case  are mostly agreed  by the parties.  But where  there are issues  
which are in dispute or information is unclear, I reach my conclusions on the balance  of 
probabilities. That is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr C was sold a caravan where  despite the existence of a current Gas Safety  Certificate the 
hoses which  were fitted were out of date. The certificate which was dated 13 October  2017  
contains a statement that the hoses had been inspected  and were  indate. Its agreed by 
the parties that this isnt correct and I understand the relevant expiry date was around two 
years previously.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer into entering  into 
an agreement and suffering a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. Here theres a false  
statement but I dont  think its likely  this was the reason Mr C acquired the caravan.  Its 
probable that - if the issue  had been  identified at the time of supply - remedial work wouldve 
been done and the agreement would still have been  entered. So whilst theres  a false  
statement I dont think it amounts to a misrepresentation.
The CRA requires  that - in order to conform to contract - goods are of satisfactory  quality 
and fit for purpose when  supplied. And goods  wouldnt be fit for purpose if they didnt meet 
required safety standards. But this service is not the regulator for enforcing  gas safety 
standards. So its not for me to say whether the error on the certificate had the effect of 
making it invalid. As Ive seen nothing to show the hoses were actually damaged in any way 
I dont think theres sufficient information to conclude the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
or fit for purpose.  But even if Id have thought otherwise it wouldnt affect my final decision.
Where goods are found not to be of satisfactory quality and/or fit for purpose the CRA 
potentially provides the consumer with a short term right to reject and a final right to reject.  
The short term right to reject needs  to be exercised  within 30 days  of supply. After that time 
a business has one chance  to repair the goods. Here  the error with the gas hoses wasnt  
identified until around twelve  months  after supply. So the short term right to reject  wasnt  
available.
Whilst BPF didnt arrange for the necessary  remedial work - Mr C did - the effect was the 
same. After the replacement hoses were fitted the vehicle  was of satisfactory quality and fit 
for purpose.  So by ensuring Mr Cs costs were  refunded I think  that was a fair and 
reasonable way for BPF to deal with that aspect.
I dont want to underplay  the unsettling experience which Mr C and his family have been 
through. But this is a case where thankfully the potential consequences  did not come to 
fruition. Mr C has chosen not to use the vehicle since the issue was discovered.  And I 
respect his decision.  But as the vehicle was inspected by an engineer  of his choosing and 
was passed safe I cant  say that BPF should  be held responsible  for this lack of use. Hes 
said his wife became  ill during the time when the issue with the hoses had yet to be 
identified. But theres no information available to me to show these matters  were related.
Our investigator explained in his opinion letter that the purpose  of compensation is not to 
punish a business but to recompense a consumer  for distress and inconvenience. My 
impression is that no amount  of compensation is going to prevent Mr C thinking about what  
mightve been. And I understand thats a very natural reaction. I also accept that he may 
think that £75 is a very small  amount for BPF to offer in the light of this experience.
Ref: DRN24646703But BPF isnt responsible  for the distress and inconvenience which arose  from the negligent 
actions of a third party of which it had no direct  knowledge. Nor for any failings in the level of 
service provided by B. And as neither  the individual nor B are parties to this complaint I cant  
make any award against them. And so whilst the level of compensation BPF offered was 
modest I cant  say it wasnt fair and reasonable.
I accept Mr C will be disappointed that Im not upholding  his complaint. But as the vehicle 
has been restored  to being  of satisfactory  quality  and costs have been  refunded  I dont think  
it would  be fair and reasonable to require  BPF to accept its rejection and end the agreement.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2464670