K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Unum Ltd turned down his income protection claim. 
background
Mr T holds  an income protection policy with Unum.  The aim of the policy is to pay benefit,  
after a waiting period of 100 working days,  if Mr T is unable to carry out his normal 
occupation because  of illness or injury.
In 2017, Mr T stopped  work. He made  a claim under the policy, however this was turned  
down by Unum as it didnt  think he met the policys definition of incapacity. Unhappy  with 
this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He found Mr Ts GPs evidence  to 
be persuasive and thought Mr T did meet  the policy definition of incapacity. He 
recommended Unum pay the claim from the date the waiting  period  ended, plus interest.
Unum didnt agree with the adjudicators recommendations, and asked that the matter  be 
referred to an ombudsman. The complaint has therefore been  passed to me for 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy defines  incapacity to mean:
you cannot  perform the material and substantial duties of your occupation because of your 
illness or injury.
For the claim be payable, Mr T must meet  the above definition from the date he stopped 
work on 30 October 2017 until the end of the waiting period on 19 March  2018. 
When Mr T stopped work in October 2017, he visited his GP and explained  hed been  
experiencing anxiety and stress for some time, and had pressures in his job. He said he 
couldnt go into work as he was experiencing anxiety  symptoms  that were panic like. 
Mr Ts GP prescribed  him a low dose of antidepressant medication and signed him off work 
with stress. 
The following  month, Mr T met with a psychological  service for therapy. He reported  
pressure at work; not being able to sleep; feeling anxious and paranoid; worrying  about 
work; and low motivation  in other  areas. He was put forward for computerised cognitive 
behavioural therapy (CBT). 
Throughout the following few months,  Mr T continued to report to his GP that he was feeling  
anxious and stressed,  as well as fatigued.  His antidepressant medication was increased  and 
he was continued  to be signed off work  with stress.  Mr T also had six sessions of 
computerised CBT and four telephone therapy sessions.
Ref: DRN21117502I see that shortly after the waiting period  ended, Mr Ts antidepressant medication was 
increased to the maximum  dose.  
Unums company medical officer (CMO) considered  the case. He thought  Mr T was 
experiencing work-related  stress which he said isnt an illness. He said there was no 
evidence of any specific functional impairment that would  prevent Mr T from performing his 
occupation. Unum therefore  turned down the claim.
After Unum turned down  his claim, Mr T asked his GP to write  a letter of support. Unum 
hasnt placed  much reliance on this letter.  Its CMO  says theres no identifiable way that 
further comment can be made about the material period thats  in the past. Especially as the 
records suggest the GP was happy  to provide  information that was supportive rather than 
objective. 
The GP notes do indeed say that Mr T asked for a letter of support as his income protection  
claim had been  turned  down. The GP commented that she would ask for another GP to write 
the letter as he had seen Mr T numerous  times  with his anxiety  and depression. 
Whilst I appreciate theres reference  to a letter  of support, that doesnt mean the further 
comments provided by the GP should  be ignored. Although the letter was written  after the 
waiting period had ended, it does provide further clarification about Mr Ts health in the 
relevant period, which I think should  be taken into account. 
In a letter dated 25 May 2018, the GP said:
The sick notes have  previously been  stating  stress  since 30th October  2017  when really this 
could be better clarified as an anxiety and depressive disorder which  had been building up 
prior to his consultation  with me in October  2017.  He was commenced  on antidepressants in 
the form of citalopram to try and aid his symptoms and referred topsychological services. 
He has had regular  consultations with me during which at times his symptoms of anxiety, low 
mood, poor sleep, fatigue, poor concentration and poor motivation have persisted. All of 
these can be regarded  as symptoms of anxiety and depressionI  would be of the opinion  
that he is suffering  with a mixed anxiety and depression disorder in association with work 
related stress, but given that he has not been  at work for a number of months, stress would 
not be regarded  as the sole diagnosis.
Also in May 2018,  Mr T met with a consultant occupational health  physician (Dr W). Although  
this took place after the waiting period  ended, I think Dr Ws comments  are quite useful.  
Dr W said Mr T was still experiencing symptoms  of tiredness, anxiety  and altered sleep 
pattern. Dr W said those symptoms were  consistent with work-related anxiety. He said one 
of the main barriers to returning to work would be the work-related stress issues.  He thought 
that with more time for his treatments to stabilise and with further  therapy, Mr Ts health 
condition would improve. And if his treatments were  effective and his stress issues could be 
addressed, then a gradual phased return to work could take place. Dr W said Mr Ts current 
diagnosis was consistent with work-related stress, anxiety and depression.
I think this is a very finely balanced  case.  Unums CMO is a consultant psychiatrist  and as a 
specialist, I would usually  place the greatest weight on his opinion.  However,  I also have to 
take into account that the CMO has only carried out a desktop  review of Mr Ts medical 
records, whereas the GP and Dr W have  met Mr T. 
Ref: DRN21117503Unums CMO says theres been  an absence of a systematic,  progressive use of 
pharmacological interventions associated with psychiatric illness.  He hasnt expanded on 
that, but I assume hes referring to the GPs decision to only try one antidepressant  
medication. Its not for me to comment on the GPs recommended treatment, but given that 
the waiting period was a relatively short  period  of time (less  than six months), it doesnt 
seem particularly unusual  that only one anti-depressant medication was prescribed to Mr T 
over that time - and I note the dose was steadily  increased over that period. 
I fully appreciate Unums  CMOs point that workplace  stress isnt an illness.  However, whilst 
the GP and Dr W accepted that Mr T was experiencing workplace stress, they both thought 
that he was also experiencing an illness  anxiety and depression. Both of them also thought 
he was unfit to work.
If Mr T were only experiencing  work-related stress,  then Id expect  his symptoms to improve 
the longer he was away from work.  However, as his GP has pointed out, Mr Ts symptoms 
have persisted, despite him not being  at work for some months. It may well have been  the 
case that Mr Ts workplace stress acted as a trigger for his illness, but that doesnt  mean  his 
claim should be declined  because of this.  
I recognise Dr W said Mr Ts work-related stress was one of the main barriers  to him 
returning to work, but it seems it wasnt the only barrier. Ive also taken into account  that 
there wasnt a specific problem at Mr Ts workplace  that could potentially  be resolved by his 
employer, thereby allowing him to return to work (which might indicate  an employment issue,  
rather than a medical one). Dr W thought Mr T needed more  time for his treatments  to 
stabilise and further therapy before he could consider returning to work. 
Taking all of the above into consideration, I think it would be reasonable to conclude that 
Unum should accept the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to accept Mr Ts claim 
and pay benefit  in accordance with the policys  remaining  terms and conditions.  Interest 
should be added to these benefit  payments  at the annual simple  rate of 8%, calculated  from 
the date each payment was due to the date of settlement.* 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If Unum considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr T how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr T a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN2111750