K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to him the money  that he paid 
for help with cancelling his time-share contract. 
background
Mr S entered into a contract cancellation  service agreement with a supplier in 
December 2017  for help with cancelling his time-share contract. He used his Nationwide 
credit card to pay £1,560  to the supplier. He contacted the supplier the following day 
because he wanted  to cancel the contract  but the supplier  said that he couldnt  do so. He 
claimed a refund from Nationwide  under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. But he 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that the term 
under which Mr S forfeited his right to withdraw  from the agreement was an unfair term. And 
he said that there was no evidence  to show that the supplier had carried  out any of the 
contract when Mr S called  to cancel the agreement, he didnt feel that it was likely that any 
work was done  and it was clear that the supplier had no intention  of carrying  out any work as 
it returned Mr Ss time-share certificate.  So he recommended that Nationwide should  rework 
Mr Ss credit  card as if the transaction of £1,560 hadnt taken place.
Nationwide has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It agrees that 
there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier relationship  but says that there was an express 
provision in the contract that Mr S forfeited  his cooling-off right by authorising  the supplier to 
start work immediately. It says that there was no statutory right to cancel  and the clause 
being unfair wouldnt amount to a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier for 
which it would be liable.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Mr Ss complaint about  Nationwide, I 
must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier 
of the services and that Nationwides response  to his claim under  section 75 wasnt  fair or 
reasonable. Im not determining the outcome  of Mr Ss claim under section 75 as only a 
court would be able to do that.
Nationwide agrees that theres a relevant relationship between the debtor, the creditor and 
the supplier  so I havent considered that issue any further.
Mr S signed  the agreement in December 2017. The supplier added  a time stamp to show 
that hed waived his right to withdraw  from the agreement as it was starting the services 
straightaway. But I dont  consider it to be likely that Mr S was given any option  other  than to 
waive his right to withdraw  from the agreement. 
Ref: DRN22387132Mr S contacted the supplier the day after he signed  the agreement  because he didnt want to 
continue with the contract  but he was told that he had no right to withdraw from the 
agreement. But Ive seen no evidence to show that the supplier had done  any work on 
Mr Ss claim at that time so I consider that it wouldve been  fair and reasonable for his 
cancellation of the agreement to have been accepted  at that time.
Since then the supplier  has returned Mr Ss time-share  certificate and Mr S has received no 
services from it. Having  considered all of the evidence, Im not persuaded that the supplier 
ever had any intention  of starting the work straightaway  if at all  and I consider  it to be 
more likely than not that the services wouldnt have been provided to Mr S. Hes paid £1,560  
to the supplier but received no services  from it. I consider that to be a breach of contract and 
that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Nationwide  to rework his 
credit card account as if he hadnt made  the payment of £1,560 to the supplier in 
December 2017.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  
Nationwide Building  Society to:
1.Rework Mr Ss credit card account as if the payment of £1,560  hadnt been  made  in 
December 2017, and - if that puts the account  into credit - to pay interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple on the credit balance for the periods that the account  was in 
credit. It should also refund the credit balance to Mr S.
2.If Mr S has repaid the £1,560  (or any part of it) to Nationwide but doesnt have a 
credit balance,  to pay interest  on the amount that he has repaid at an annual  rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Nationwide to deduct tax from those interest payments. 
Nationwide must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2238713