K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained that Nationwide Building Society cant prove he signed for a payment 
from his account.
Background
Mr H didnt recognise a payment made  from his credit card account on 5 February 2018. He 
asked Nationwide  for a copy  of his signature, authorising the transaction. He also asked it to 
cancel his card and issue a replacement if it couldnt show  he signed for the payment. 
Nationwide explained  this was an online payment and it didnt need  his signature. It advised  
him that the payment was probably  a renewal for a buildings and contents  insurance policy,  
as hed made a similar  payment  a year ago to the same merchant. It told him to contact the 
merchant if he had any concerns. It didnt  cancel his card.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his complaint. He said Nationwide told him who the merchant 
was and had explained it didnt need a signature  for the transaction.  
Our adjudicator also contacted the merchant directly. It confirmed that Mr H was one of its 
customers and the payment  was for a policy hed taken out with it. 
Mr H didnt feel that our adjudicator had addressed his complaint. Hes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.  
Having done so, Im afraid I wont be upholding Mr Hs complaint. I will explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 are of particular  relevance to my decision about 
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The regulations explain 
that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised if the payer  has consented 
to it. But Nationwide  must first show the payment was authenticated. This means  it must  
show it was verified by its procedures, including its personalised security features.
Nationwide says it no longer has the audit trail for the transaction. But I have  seen the credit 
card statement.  This shows the payment was set up as a recurring visa transaction. 
Nationwide said it would  have been set up as an online payment using Mr Hs credit  card 
details. From experience,  I know that Nationwide would have needed the details on the 
credit card, including  the three  digits  on the back of the card, but not a signature. 
The merchant has also confirmed that Mr H set up the payment instruction.
Ref: DRN27920572Based on this evidence,  I am satisfied that the transaction was authenticated  and that 
Nationwide didnt need his signature for the transaction. 
I havent gone on to consider if Mr H gave his consent to the payment. This is because he 
isnt disputing that he took out an insurance  policy  with the merchant; neither is he asking for 
a refund. Nationwide  asked  him if he wanted  to raise a disputed transaction  complaint but he 
hasnt. He hasnt  made  it precisely clear what he wants, other  than proof hed signed for the 
payment. However,  if he does complain later on that he didnt give his consent then the 
evidence from the merchant will be taken  into account.
I think whats happened is that Mr H didnt know the merchant would renew  his building and 
contents insurance automatically,  without his prior consent, or he forgot. So when  he saw 
the payment on his statement, he didnt  recognise  it. It was open to him to cancel the 
insurance policy if he no longer wanted it.
In the meantime, based on the evidence, I am satisfied that Nationwide didnt need a 
signature and that the transaction was authenticated. As Nationwide  could  explain the 
transaction, it didnt  need to cancel his card.  Besides, Mr H didnt raise  any concerns about  
the security of his card.
For these reasons, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Ive noted Mr Hs complaints about  Nationwides delays in replying to his emails. Nationwide  
said this was because  he kept sending his emails to its home insurance team instead of the 
credit card services team. The home  insurance team had to redirect his emails and this 
caused minor delays.  In these circumstances, I dont think Nationwide can be held 
responsible for any delays  that might have  occurred.
I am sorry  to send disappointing  news  and especially after such  a lengthy delay. I am very 
grateful to Mr H for his patience while we looked into his case.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am rejecting this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2792057