K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains that the fixed sum loan agreement he entered into with Ikano Bank  AB 
(publ) to acquire a new boiler was mis-sold. He complains the boiler and its installation 
werent of satisfactory  quality.
Background
Mr C entered into a loan agreement  with Ikano in August 2017 to pay for the installation of a 
new boiler. He says there were a number of issues with the boiler, its installation and the 
sale of the agreement. He says he wasnt provided  with the information  he should have been  
when the agreement was being  set up and is concerned that inaccurate information was 
provided about his income and home ownership.  Mr C says the boiler supplied is too big and 
that the installation wasnt carried out with due care and that damage was caused  to his 
property.
Mr C says that the supplier offered him £2,000 compensation but this hasnt been paid.
The supplier  says that Mr C would have been taken through  the agreement  and the 
information included  in it will have been based  on discussions with him. It says that the 
agreements are completed online and then emailed  and so Mr C would  have had the 
information available to him before the boiler was installed. It says that it has tried to work 
with Mr C in regard to carrying out remedial work and that it has offered compensation. It 
says it believes the offer of £2,000 related  to the price difference between his installation  and 
another and didnt think this amount of compensation  was justified.
Our investigator thought that the boiler installed  was of satisfactory quality but that the 
installation hadnt  been carried out with reasonable care and skill. She noted  that reports had 
been carried out and these identified  the works that needed to take place to bring  the 
installation up to a satisfactory standard. She thought a fair outcome would be that Ikano 
arrange for the repairs to be carried out at no cost to Mr C. She also thought that Mr C 
should be paid £500 for the inconvenience he had experienced.
In regard to the sale of the loan, our investigator  thought the application information Ikano 
received suggested  the loan was affordable and that it didnt have any reason to question 
this. She also noted the information provided to Mr C regarding the agreement  and said that 
she didnt think the agreement had been misrepresented.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said the sales agent  worked  out his income  
from his bank statement  and had he seen the paperwork he could have explained  the 
income figure was wrong. He also said he wasnt asked if he was a home owner only if he 
had a mortgage to which he replied no. Mr C said that he hadnt been given a breakdown of 
costs and that items listed as included hadnt  been. He also said he had been told by 
independent heating experts that he didnt need a boiler of the size that was fitted. He said 
had he been given all the correct information he wouldnt  have entered  into the loan 
agreement.
Ikano contacted the retailer following our investigators view and it confirmed that the 
remedial work would be carried out and sent a cheque for £500  to Mr C for the 
inconvenience he had experienced.  It also later agreed to refund £261.26 for repairs Mr C 
had to pay for due to issues  with the installation.
Ref: DRN22131512Since our investigators view was issued,  Mr C says that he received a cheque  from the 
supplier for £500 for the inconvenience he had been caused but he didnt bank this. In 
August 2019 he received another cheque for £261.26 for damage caused by the installation 
of the boiler and this cheque bounced.  He says this issue is still causing him stress.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
that the installation work wasnt carried out to a satisfactory standard. Remedial 
action was recommended and as I understood this had been  carried  out at no cost to 
Mr C. I found this a reasonable remedy;
Mr C had to pay for some repairs due to damage caused while the installation  took 
place. It was agreed the cost of this would  be refunded but Mr C said the cheque had 
bounced. I found it reasonable that Mr C was refunded the £261.26 as agreed and 
that Ikano should  ensure this happened. If Mr C had incurred any costs due to the 
issue with the cheque I found  it reasonable that these would be refunded subject to 
evidence being provided;
without further  confirmation regarding the boiler size, I did not find I had enough to 
say that the wrong  boiler was supplied and as I was not aware of any issues  with the 
boiler I did not find that I could uphold this part of the complaint;
I didnt find I had enough to say that the information  in the agreement was 
deliberately misleading or misrepresented or that Ikano  shouldnt  have provided the 
loan based on the details  provided;  
the supplier had issued a cheque  for £500  compensation which  I thought reasonable. 
However, given the further upset Mr C had been  caused by the issue with the cheque 
bouncing, I thought a further £50 compensation should be paid.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision.  He reiterated that the boiler he was provided 
with was too large and that because  of this he was unable to use other appliances as the 
boiler took all of the pressure. He noted other  issues experienced by people being sold 
overpriced boilers and felt that this was what had happened to him.
Mr C said that the remedial work hadnt been carried  out. He also noted  that when he had 
the boiler serviced concern was raised  about  the chipboard mount which  had left him 
concerned about  its safety. He said that he had paid £20 for the holes in his fascia  boards  to 
be filled and he had spent  £80 doing  work himself removing the tanks  and replacing 
insulation on pipes  and in the loft as well as redecoration work. 
He said that the supplier  had been  in touch  to say that it had cancelled the two cheques  and 
then later to say that £811 would be transferred to his account. He says this didnt  happen by 
the date it said it would.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22131513Mr C entered into a loan agreement  to pay for the installation of a new boiler.  Under the 
regulations, Ikano, as the loan provider, can be held liable if there was a misrepresentation 
of breach of contract by the supplier. The goods  or installation not being of satisfactory 
quality could be considered as a breach of contract.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I dont think I have enough evidence to say that the 
wrong boiler has been fitted or that there was there were any issues  with the boiler. I note 
the information Mr C has provided in regard  to other people experiencing issues  with boiler 
sales but I assess every case based on its merits and in this case  I do not find that I have 
enough to uphold this part of Mr Cs complaint.
Also, while I note the additional comments made in regard the sale of the loan agreement, I 
again reiterate  my thoughts as set out in my provisional decision,  and I do not find that I 
have enough evidence to uphold this part of the complaint.
I do uphold Mr Cs complaint in regard to the installation of the boiler.  My understanding  
when I wrote my provisional  decision was that the remedial work had taken place. Mr C has 
confirmed this is not the case. He noted the emergency work he had completed at his cost 
and that he has undertaken  other  work either himself  or at his cost.  
Given the remedial  work  hasnt been  undertaken and was agreed that it would be I find that 
Ikano should now ensure  all remedial work that was listed  in the inspection report should be 
carried out. The items listed were:
Remove and re-fix the boiler higher up the wall if a solid fixing can be attained 
without using a timber support.
Re-clip the plume kit
Cut back redundant  pipe-work  connect the nest to the room stat wiring  on the wall
Remove the tanks and redundant pipe-work from the loft
General making  good
To the extent this has already happened this should  be checked to ensure no further action 
is needed and any costs Mr C has incurred in having this work done should be refunded  
(subject to invoices).
Mr C has also raised the issue of the chipboard  mount for the boiler. While this is listed as an 
advisory note in the gas report, I think it reasonable this issue is considered when the 
remedial works are carried out, specifically as part of the work assessing the boiler re-fix. 
I understand that Mr C feels the compensation recommended isnt sufficient  and that he will 
suffer further disruption when the remedial work  is undertaken. However, given the 
circumstances of this case,  I think the £500 compensation plus the additional £50 for the 
issue with the cheques and the refund for the emergency works is reasonable. I understand 
this amount should have been transferred to Mr C. 
Ref: DRN22131514My final decision
My final decision is that that Ikano  Bank  AB (publ) should:
ensure all remedial  works are carried out as set out in the inspection report, including 
consideration of the chipboard mount  when considering the re-fix of the boiler;
refund  Mr C any costs he has incurred undertaking the remedial works (subject to 
invoices being  provided);
ensure that Mr C receives the original f £500 in compensation, along  with the 
additional £50 compensation  and the refund of £261.26.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2213151