K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about how Fairmead  Insurance Limited  has settled their claim 
following an escape  of water.
background 
Mr and Mrs T had a home insurance policy that was underwritten by Fairmead,  In 2016 they 
made a claim following a leak in their kitchen.
Throughout the claim they made  a number  of complaints to Fairmead. In 2018 they brought  
a complaint to this service about delays  to the claim. Our investigator recommended  
Fairmead pay Mr and Mrs T compensation.
Following this Fairmead completed the repair work. However Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy  
with the result. They said that Fairmead hadnt  completed all the required work. So they 
made a further  complaint. 
Fairmead sent a contractor to inspect the property and put together  a scope of works for any 
work remaining. The contractor then attended  to complete the repairs.  However following 
this visit, Fairmead said the relationship between its contractor and Mr and Mrs T broke 
down, so it would be more appropriate for it to cash settle. It therefore offered £750 for the 
remaining work. 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  think this was fair. They disagreed  there had been a relationship  
breakdown and they thought £750 wasnt enough  to do all the required work. They provided 
two quotes for the work to show that it would  be a higher price.   They  also said they hadnt 
received the scope of works,  which Fairmead  said it had posted out. They  brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommended  the complaint is partially  
upheld. He said that Fairmead were acting in line with the policy terms by offering a cash  
settlement and it was able to offer the amount it would have paid its contractor.  He also said 
that the quotes provided additional work that hadnt been agreed under  the policy  like 
replacing all the laminate  flooring. So couldnt be considered a direct comparison. However 
he accepted that the scope of works wasnt posted to Mr and Mrs T as promised, so thought  
Fairmead should pay £50 compensation for this error.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept this and asked for their complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the settlement Fairmead has offered  for the remaining work.  
They said the cash settlement offered isnt enough  for them  to get the work completed.  They  
want Fairmead to either increase the amount offered  or get its contractors to complete the 
work. I need  to decide whether the settlement offered is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN26830822I have first considered Fairmeads choice to offer a cash  settlement rather  than send 
contractors to complete  the work. The policy states as follows:
We may offer repair or replacement through our approved suppliers. If you prefer  to use
your own tradesman, or receive a cash settlement for replacement  goods instead, we
will need  to agree this with you beforehand.  
So it seems  that usually a cash settlement would be agreed with the policyholder. 
However from looking at the evidence provided,  I can see that its contractors did attend the 
property in order to complete  the work. However Mrs T was unhappy  with some of the 
proposed work and sent them away. It was at this point Fairmead decided  a cash settlement  
would be more appropriate.
Fairmead had already  selected new contractors, due to the fact that the previous ones 
hadnt completed the work to standard.  And following the visit, the second  contractors 
expressed that they didnt wish to return. Further, the work they were proposing to do was as 
directed by Fairmead and laid out in the scope of works. So I can understand why Fairmead 
felt that the best option would be to cash settle. As any other  contractor it selected would 
also be following the same specification, so it seems unlikely Mr and Mrs T would allow them  
to start the work.
So I think Fairmead acted  fairly  by choosing to cash settle, so that Mr and Mrs T can select  a 
contractor and ensure  they get the work  completed  in a way that they are happy  with.
I have also considered the amount  Fairmead  offered for the settlement.  It states  in the 
policy, in regards to a cash settlement:
Any payment will generally not exceed  the discounted amount we would have paid to our 
chosen supplier.
As Fairmead  has shown  that the amount offered is the amount it would have  paid its 
contractor, I am satisfied that this is in line with the policy terms.
I have considered the quotes provided  by Mr and Mrs T. One of them is significantly higher 
than the settlement. However the most  expensive  element of that quote is replacement  of all 
the laminate flooring. And this isnt included in the agreed scope of works  as it isnt 
Fairmeads liability.  With this removed, the quote  would be less than the value offered as 
the settlement.  So although Fairmead is entitled to pay the discounted rate it would pay its 
suppliers, it seems Mr and Mrs T will be able to complete the work for around the same 
amount.
For these reasons, I think Fairmead has acted fairly and reasonably  when settling Mr and 
Mrs Ts claim.  It has chosen  to cash  settle as Mr and Mrs T havent  been able to agree a 
way forward with its contractors and have settled at a reasonable amount for the work  
required. I therefore wont ask it to do anything  differently in relation to the claim settelement.
However I can also see that Fairmead  said it would post the new scope of works  to Mr and 
Mrs T. And when they said they hadnt  received this, it maintained  that it had been posted. 
Since the complaint came to us, Fairmead  has been unable to provide any proof that this 
was completed.  I can understand  after a claim that has taken a long time to settle, this would 
Ref: DRN26830823be distressing and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs T. So I agree with our investigator that it 
should pay them £50 compensation to make up for this. 
;
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs T £50 
compensation to make  up for the distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2683082