K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2002 alongside  a credit card. Mrs N says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs N didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out. I appreciate Mrs N strongly  feels she wasnt made aware  she had been 
sold PPI but the evidence  Ive seen suggests  its more  likely that she would have 
been aware. Ive seen  a copy of the application form which shows Mrs N selected 
PPI. Although the form shows  a printed X rather than a manual selection,  Mrs Ns 
personal details  have also been completed electronically and as the PPI was sold 
during a branch meeting I think its more likely that the information and choices on 
the form reflected  the discussion between Mrs N and the representative. Mrs N also 
signed this form and so if she had any doubts about  PPI at this time,  she could have 
raised this with the representative. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs N so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs N has said - including  what she has said about  her other 
means of making  repayments. But these points dont change  my mind.  The PPI policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ns existing  means. And although  Mrs N would have 
received sick pay (6 months full followed by 6 months half pay) from her employer for the 
same length  of time as the PPI would have paid out, her sick pay would have been reduced 
to half for the second six months and so I think the policy would have been especially useful 
to her at that point  as it would have paid the same amount of benefit for 12 months.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs N paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs N back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
BoS will make arrangements  to pay Mrs N now Ive issued my final decision if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN24330912my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint against  Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433091