K820x#14Complaint
Ms H has complained about a whole of life policy provided by Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited. She feels the terms  and conditions are contradictory and as a result she didnt know  
she would  have to increase her premiums or accept a lower sum assured at some point 
during the life of the policy.
Background
Ms H took out the policy in 1999. The policy  was initially set up to provide  a sum assured of 
£110,000 with a monthly  premium of £49.95. It was sold to her by an independent financial 
adviser (IFA).
The policy was setup  on a maximum cover basis and was invested  in a managed fund. It 
was reviewed in 2009  for the first time.  It passed this review,  meaning that no changes  to the 
policy were required.
In 2014 the policy was reviewed again  and this time it failed the review.  This meant that the 
premium Ms H was paying into the policy wasnt enough to maintain the sum assured she 
chose at outset. So she had a number of options around increasing the level of premiums 
she was paying  to maintain the sum assured or accept a lower sum assured and keep  the 
premiums the same.
Ms H didnt reply to the review letter Aviva sent her where it set out what changes were 
required. So because of this Aviva applied  the default option of keeping  her premiums at the 
same level but with a reduced sum assured.
The policy was reviewed  again in 2019 where again it was found that not enough was being  
paid into the policy to maintain the sum assured. Again Ms H was presented with a number 
of options such  as increasing her premiums or accepting a lower  sum assured.
It was this letter that prompted  Ms H to complain about the policy.  She said that because of 
the 2019 review  letter  she looked  through the paperwork of the policy and found  a document 
which states that the premium from the outset  of £49.95 would be maintained at that level 
until April 2026. She is therefore unhappy  with the conflicting information and feel Aviva 
didnt do enough  to ensure she knew the policy was a reviewable one.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
was of the view that the terms and conditions of the policy that Ms H would  have been  
provided with when she took the policy clearly stated the policy would be reviewed and what  
this meant. He accepted the policy cover  sheet did say the premium  would  be £49.95 until 
April 2026 but this document also stated the first review would take place in 5 years time. 
He also reasoned that the cover sheet  had to be read alongside  the policys terms and 
conditions to ensure  a policyholder got the right details  of the policy.
Ms H didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view the policys terms were  
contradictory. So as no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been  passed to me 
to review.
Ref: DRN28881542My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
First and foremost I can see why Ms H thinks the policys terms and conditions  are 
contradictory. The policy cover sheet which details the policy  does state the premium will be 
£49.95 until April 2026. However  this document also states  that a review  of the policy  will 
take place on May 2009. Ms H would not have been provided only with this document  at the 
time of the sale. She would have been  given a number of documents which  all should have 
been read in conjunction  with each other. Had this happened,  she would have seen that the 
terms and conditions of the policy clearly state the policy will be reviewed, an explanation of 
why reviews must take place on these types  of policies and what the implications of those 
reviews could be. While Ms Hs focus  was on the level of premium  on the cover sheet of the 
policy she should have  also focused on the other  details contained in that document.  Also 
that premium quoted  only applies  if no changes  were  to be made to the policy,  in other 
words if it was found at the regular reviews that no more needed to be paid into the policy  as 
the amount being paid was enough to maintain the sum assured chosen at outset.
Its also worth noting that the fact this policy was a reviewable one and what that meant to 
Ms H should  have been discussed with her by the business that sold her the policy.  She 
should also have  been directed by that business  to the relevant  details  such as the terms 
and conditions and in particular the part that deals with the reviews  that would  take place. 
This was the responsibility of the party that sold her the policy  but as the sale was done by 
an independent financial adviser and not Aviva I cant  comment on what  was said to her 
when she was sold the policy nor can I say how the policy was presented to her. Aviva  can 
also not pass comment on this issue.
All Avivas responsibility was to provide all the relevant information needed to ensure Ms H 
as the policy  holder  understood  the policy from the documentation alone. Having reviewed 
the document, I am satisfied that Aviva fulfilled  its obligation. Its reasonable that Ms H 
should have read all the details of her policy and had she done so she would have seen that 
the policy would be reviewed regularly. If she wasnt happy  with this at any point in the past 
she could have brought this up with Aviva.
Also, the letter Ms H received  from Aviva in 2014  which detailed  the result  of her first failed 
review provided full details of why the review  had to take place, what  this meant and what 
her options  were. It also stated that the figures  quoted as her options may only be 
maintained until the next review and further  changes may be required again. So again, I 
think Ms H was fully aware from this letter of the reviewable nature of the policy and what 
this meant  at this point  in time.
Overall therefore while  I can understand why Ms H feel the way she does I dont think all the 
paperwork that applies to this policy is contradictory  as she seems  to believe. All details of 
the policy should be read together and this should  have  all been pointed out to her by the 
business that sold her the policy. As far as Avivas  obligations are concerned all it had to do 
was provide information about the policy.  And in my view it has done this. Ms Hs 
misunderstanding of the policy or the fact she didnt read all the policy documents  cannot be 
the responsibility of Aviva.
Ref: DRN28881543My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2888154