K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Eldon Insurance Services Ltd has unfairly charged her a compulsory  
excess she was not aware of.
background
Eldon Insurance Services Ltd (Eldon)  operates as an insurance broker,  using  a trading 
name. As Eldon is ultimately  the company responsible for this complaint, Ill refer to it 
throughout, rather than to its trading  name.
Ms P took out a motor  insurance policy through Eldon  some  time ago. Eldon sent her a letter 
detailing the renewal terms of the policy in June 2018. This quoted a total excess of £575.
Ms P phoned Eldon and agreed renewal terms in July 2018 and it issued confirmation 
shortly after.  The renewal  covering letter showed Ms Ps voluntary excess  of £250 but 
incorrectly showed the total excess as £0. The accompanying motor  insurance certificate 
however correctly detailed the additional  comprehensive excess  of £325.
Later that year, Ms P came to claim on the policy and Eldon told her she would need to pay 
a £575 excess. This was made up of her voluntary excess and the comprehensive policy  
excess. 
She didnt  think this was right and referred to the covering letter which  quoted the voluntary 
excess of £250  and total excess  of £0. Eldon accepted it had made a mistake in the covering  
letter but said the certificate of insurance had quoted  the excesses correctly. It also said it 
had made  the excesses  clear during the renewal  conversation with Ms P in July.
Ms P remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered the evidence  and concluded  that while she accepted the covering letter  quoted 
the excess incorrectly, she was satisfied the correct  excess was made  clear  to Ms P in the 
insurance certificate and during the phone call.
Ms P remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same decision  as the investigator  and for the same reasons. I know this will disappoint  Ms P 
so Id like to explain my reasoning.
The decision  I need to make here is whether  Eldon made the comprehensive excess on the 
policy sufficiently clear. My starting  point is therefore  the documents that Eldon sent to Ms P.
The certificate of insurance included with the Eldons  covering  letter  clearly states there 
would be an excess of £325 for comprehensive policies such  as Ms Ps. In her submissions, 
Ms P confirms  shes  listened to the renewal call and acknowledges this excess was 
explained to her. She says it should have been discussed at the beginning of the call rather 
than later on. But Im not persuaded the timing of the explanation in the call makes any 
difference, the key thing is that this excess was made clear to Ms P.
Ref: DRN22737062I acknowledge the covering letter incorrectly quotes the total excess as £0. But I think it 
should have been reasonably clear to Ms P that as shed decided to have a voluntary excess 
of £250, a total excess of £0 wouldnt be correct. And I think it would have been reasonable 
for her to make further enquiries to clarify the position if she was left uncertain even after the 
phone call and having seen the rest of the paperwork.
In summary,  I acknowledge the covering  letter was incorrect  but, for the reasons above,  Im 
satisfied that Eldon  did enough to make  the comprehensive excess sufficiently clear and not 
misleading so I wont  be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2273706