K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that loans he had from PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender)  were 
unaffordable.
background
Mr O had four loans from Mr Lender between  February 2013 and April 2014 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 8 Feb 2013 £200 47d £270.00* 28 Mar 2013 30 Sep 2013
4 x rollovers
Repayment plan
2 4 Nov 2013 £220 24d £297.00 29 Nov 2013 31 Jan 2014
2 x rollovers
3 31 Jan 2014 £350 27d £455.00 28 Feb 2014 28 Mar 2014
1 x rollover
4 15 Apr 2014 £550 9d £605.00 25 Apr 2014 30 Dec 2014
3 x rollovers
Repayment plan
* Largest monthly repayment during  the term of the loan
Mr O says that his credit  report would have  shown he had debt repayment issues but that 
Mr Lender did not take into account  his financial history.  He says his borrowing pattern 
should have indicated that his debt problems were getting worse.
Mr Lender says it carried out an employment  check and asked Mr O about his income and 
expenditure. It says its credit check did not indicate  Mr O was struggling financially, and he 
settled loans 2 and 3 without support. Mr Lender adds that Mr O told it he was in financial 
difficulties during loans 1 and 4 and it set up an affordable  repayment  plan for each.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. She found the final rollover 
for loan 1, plus loans  3 and 4, should  not have been  approved. She said that when Mr O 
rolled over loan 1 for the third time, Mr Lender  should have realised it was an indication  he 
was experiencing financial  difficulties. She added that, by loan 3, Mr Os borrowing pattern 
and the fact he needed to repay a large  proportion of his income  suggested it was unlikely 
hed be able to sustainably repay  loans  3 or 4. Our adjudicator  recommended  interest and 
charges (plus 8% statutory interest) should  be refunded on the final loan 1 rollover  and loans 
3 and 4. She added that loans 3 and 4 should be removed from Mr Os credit  file.
Mr Lender responded  to say, in summary, that rollovers  can prove useful  and flexible, so did 
not agree  that it was necessarily an indication  that Mr O was in financial difficulty, and he did 
not make  it aware he was struggling. It added that it had already discounted Mr Os account  
for one rollover during  loan 1. Mr Lender went on to say that there is always a risk when 
lending money  on an unsecured basis, but that Mr O repaid loan 3 in full.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN24337042Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Loan 1
When Mr O applied for this loan, he chose to defer  the repayment for one month by paying 
only interest  in February 2013 and the full repayment in March  2013. Mr Lender  asked  Mr O 
about his income and checked his credit file but I consider it should also have asked Mr O 
about his expenditure. That said, I cant see there  was anything in the available information 
that would  have indicated the loan was unaffordable to him.
Ref: DRN24337043But Mr O rolled  the loan over in March, April, May and June before finally repaying it in 
September 2013 having agreed a repayment  plan with Mr Lender.  I dont find it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender to have allowed so many rollovers.  I say that because:
The nature  of such high-cost loans is that they are intended for short-term  use. 
Loan 1 was outstanding for almost  8 months  before it was repaid;
By the time Mr O had rolled  the loan over for the third time, hed already paid more in 
interest than the original loan amount;
This pattern of consistent rollovers should  have indicated to Mr Lender  that Mr O was 
struggling to make  the scheduled  large repayment;
So I find that Mr Lender should not have allowed the fourth  rollover in June 2013  and should 
refund any interest and charges associated  with it. I acknowledge Mr Lender says it has 
already discounted the loan repayments by the cost of one rollover.
Loan 2
Just over a month later, Mr O applied for loan 2. Mr Lender asked for information about his 
income and checked  his credit file, but I consider  its checks should  have  gone  further.  Due 
to Mr Os previous repayment  difficulties,  I think Mr Lender should have asked him about his 
expenditure, including any other active short-term loans. I can see Mr O took out another 
short-term loan a few days before loan 2, but there  is nothing  in the available  information  to 
show that Mr O couldnt  afford the repayments on that, as well as the loan 2 repayment. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr O, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the circumstances of Mr Os case, I think this point  was reached by loan 3 because:
Mr O applied for loan 3 the same day hed repaid loan 2, and it was for more money;
By the time Mr O applied for loan 3, hed been  borrowing from Mr Lender  for almost a 
year, with only a months gap between loans;
The repayment on loan 3 was a significant  proportion of Mr Os £1,100 income;
Mr O had rolled over both loans 1 and 2 before repaying them;
Proportionate checks wouldve shown Mr O had defaulted on two accounts in 2013;
Loans 3 and 4 were  provided within days/weeks  of settling the previous one. So Mr 
Lender ought to have  realised it was more likely than not Mr O was having to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Os indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably;
Mr O wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Loan  4 was 
taken out 14 months after Mr Os first. And it was for three times the amount. Mr O 
had paid large amounts of interest  to service a debt to Mr Lender over a long period.
Ref: DRN24337044I think that Mr O lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing during  loan 1 
and from loan 3 onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans and rollovers was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Os ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  the final rollover of loan 1, plus loans 3 and 4, and 
Mr Lender should  put things  right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited (trading  as Mr Lender)  
should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr O paid on the final loan 1 rollover,  and loans 
3 and 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
Deduct from this amount any refunds already paid or discounts already given;
The number of loans  and rollovers taken by loan 3 means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 3 and 4 should be removed from 
Mr Os credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2433704