K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992. Mr and Mrs D say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided YBS didnt need  to tell Mr and 
Mrs D about the commission it received - so YBS doesnt need to pay back any of the 
commission Mr and Mrs D paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Ref: DRN22339572I think YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because YBS has provided some of the key pieces of 
paperwork from the time of the sale including Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage application. 
Looking at this I can see Mr and Mrs D were  asked  if they wanted  PPI in a separate  
section of the form and they ticked the box to indicate that they wanted  cover.  If they 
didnt want cover, they couldve left this section blank  theres  nothing  here which says 
or implies they had to take it out. Mr and Mrs D also completed a separate PPI 
application form in which they indicated who they wanted cover  for  in this case for Mr D 
only  as well the level of benefit  required.  By completing a separate  and distinct  
application form for PPI, Im not persuaded they wouldve been under the impression that 
they had to have PPI or that it was an intrinsic part of their mortgage.
So taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs D chose to take out PPI and they 
did so without undue pressure.
Both YBS and Mr and Mrs D agree that YBS didnt  provide advice  - so it didnt have  to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable  for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs D 
enough clear and timely information  so they could decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
Although Im satisfied  Mr and Mrs D understood the benefit at the time they applied  for 
the policy, and they were  told the cost before the policy  started, I accept its possible the 
information YBS gave  Mr and Mrs D about the PPI overall wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type 
of cover.  The cover wasnt  fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs D  for example Mr D as 
the policyholder  wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions  on or limits to the cover  
for example  for existing  medical conditions. And it wasnt too dissimilar  to what they 
reasonably thought  they were buying  from the information they were  given. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back problems. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong - particularly given that Mr D told us he wasnt entitled  to any sick 
pay and jointly they didnt have any savings to fall back on. Because  of this I dont think  
Mr and Mrs D would  have declined the cover had YBS done anything  more.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs D would have still taken out PPI. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what they thought they were getting and I think  the policy  
could provide a useful  benefit in a difficult  time, given their circumstances at the time. And in 
those circumstances,  I consider it more  likely  than not that they would have taken out the 
policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant YBS should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN22339573But Mr and Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ds individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ds particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided YBS didnt need to disclose the commission it received, so YBS 
doesnt need to do pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs D paid. My reasons are set 
out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs D should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  YBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs D about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But in this case, YBS has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ds PPI was less than 
half of what they paid for each premium. Weve looked at how YBS has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and Mrs Ds case  
was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN22339574-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think YBS needed to tell Mr and Mrs D about the commission. So it follows  that I dont 
think the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think YBS treated Mr and Mrs 
D unfairly. 
This means  YBS doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs D back  any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Yorkshire  Building  Society didnt need to disclose the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs D 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2233957