K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that LeasePlan UK Limited  unfairly charged him over £600 when he ended  
his hire agreement  early.
Background
Mr S entered into a hire agreement with LeasePlan in October  2015  to lease a car. The 
agreement included a 10,000 annual mileage allowance.  Mr S says that due to family health 
issues that he informed  LeasePlan  about, the car became unsuitable and so he decided  to 
return it. Mr S returned the car in June 2018 with less than 6,000 miles driven and says it 
was in pristine condition. 
Mr S says that given  the low mileage and condition of the car it would have a much  higher 
residual value than would  have been  the case had he used his full mileage allowance. He 
says he is being  chased for £600 for the return of the car and that the lower mileage and his 
reasons for returning the car early havent been  taken into account.
LeasePlan says that Mr S hire agreement was due to end in October  2018, but he chose to 
terminate it early in June 2018.  It says had he continued with the agreement  he would have 
paid a further four instalments totalling just over £1,500. It says the early  termination quote 
was calculated correctly  at just over £600.  It accepted that Mr S had returned the car with a 
lower mileage than was allowed but says it doesnt have to reimburse him for this. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that LeasePlan had written  to Mr S 
with early termination quotes and that Mr S should have been reasonably aware  he would be 
charged for terminating  early. She noted the amount  charged was less than the outstanding  
payments had the lease run its full term. She didnt think that LeasePlan had done anything  
wrong in charging  Mr S for the early termination.
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He reiterated that the car had a much lower  
mileage than was allowed  under  the lease and so the cars residual value would be higher. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S entered into a lease  agreement with LeasePlan in October 2015 and in doing so 
agreed to the terms and conditions. The terms of his agreement set out that the lease term 
was for a minimum of 36 months. In this case Mr S decided to carry out a premature 
termination of the agreement. 
I am sorry  to hear of Mr S wifes disability and understand  that this meant the car wasnt  
suitable. I also appreciate that this meant his use of the car during the time he had the lease 
was relatively low. However, while I sympathise  with Mr S situation, I cannot say that 
LeasePlan did anything wrong  by charging for the premature termination. Mr S was sent a 
letter setting out the early  termination amount in June 2018 (and had previously received a 
letter in February  2018 setting out the cost at that time). Given this he was aware that a 
charge would be applied for ending his agreement early. This charge was less than the 
amount he would have paid had he continued  the agreement  to the end of the term. 
Ref: DRN22957602I understand Mr S comment  that because he hadnt driven the mileage that was allowed 
under the hire agreement the car would have a higher value. I also appreciate that he had 
driven the car considerably less than was allowed. However, LeasePlan is not required to 
reimburse Mr S for this. The mileage allowance would have been agreed when the hire 
agreement was set up and the allowance  was then available  for Mr S to use. While  Mr S 
didnt make full use of the allowance, and I appreciate why this is the case,  I do not find I can 
say that LeasePlan is required to compensate him for this.
Overall, I can understand why Mr S is upset at being  charged  to exit his agreement early  but 
based on the evidence I have seen  I do not find I can say LeasePlan has done anything 
wrong. Therefore  I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2295760