K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr G complain about Elite Insurance Company Limited. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mrs and Mr G have  an oil storage tank on their property for domestic use and this failed and 
oil leaked into their garden.  They  made a claim through Elite and werent happy with delays 
and contractor actions.  They  complained  to us.
One of our adjudicators  looked into the matter  and asked Elite to complete some  works and 
pay £200 compensation. Elite only agreed to this in part, so the case  had been  passed to 
me for review.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mrs and Mr G originally brought their complaint  to us some more  works have 
been completed. I believe  the redundant tank has been removed, but the garden 
remains an issue. If this isnt the case and other matters remain  outstanding both sides  
should let me know before I issue a final decision.  Elite also agreed  to pay the £200 
compensation for inconvenience.
There appears to have  been some delay post the adjudicators view,  but this seems to 
have been because Elite were  waiting for confirmation that a site visit had been agreed by 
Mrs and Mr G, but they thought the visit was just going ahead anyway. Im not sure I can 
blame either  side for that aspect of the case.
When the site report  was finally done  the insurers representatives said that there was only 
a small area of damage to the garden  and that would most probably rectify itself over time.  
They also flagged an issue with potential works due to historical  interest in the site. Mrs and 
Mr Gs view is that works do need to be done, and they have asked  for an independent
expert to be appointed to look into the matter.
In the course of considering the case I have asked Mrs and Mr G if they want to submit their
own report on the garden. They  did say they would submit a report,  but after a 
time extension submitted  a statement from a contractor asking for sight  of the 
insurers investigation report and a validation report,  before they can take matters  
further.
In view of the above I think  it now necessary to make clear  my current views on the case.  It 
is clear that Elite failed Mrs and Mr G here. There were delays and the tank should have 
been removed.  So whilst  I am glad the removal has taken place and the £200  offered Im 
not sure I can do much  more on the garden  with the evidence I have.
Elites contractor says the damage  remaining will in effect  grow  out. With oil and a garden 
environment that is a possibility, depending on the nature and site of the garden and 
quantity of oil and how this has settled.  I appreciate Mrs and Mr G dont accept  this, but for 
me to require Elite to do more I need  some report detailing why Elite are wrong,  from some  
expert or contractor operating in this area of work. I dont have that.
Ref: DRN27763092I note what Mrs and Mr Gs contractor says but I dont really  agree. What I need  is a 
report on the state of the garden  now and what, if anything, needs  doing now based  on 
the oil damage.  What  the previous investigation  showed and how that was validated is 
irrelevant, as its the condition now that I need to know,  to see if I think  Elite should  do 
more.
My current  view is that Elite should  have removed  the tank(s) and should pay the £200 
compensation. But, based  on the evidence I currently have I am not minded to make  
any additional award concerning the garden.
Since my provisional decision both sides have responded. Mrs and Mr G have 
accepted the £200  having become tired of the matter. Elite have also accepted the 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both sides have agreed  the provisional  decision, albeit I do understand why Mrs and Mr 
G think the matter has now dragged on too long, I see no reason to alter my views on this 
case. 
my final decision
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should pay Mrs and Mr G £200  compensation. I make no 
other award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2776309