K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs S bought PPI at the same time as they applied for a mortgage. The 
policy was in Mr Ss sole name  and gave him protection against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
In response to the adjudicators letter Mr and Mrs S pointed  out they never met with Halifax  
about PPI, it was done through  the estate agent.  The banks records  and paperwork support  
this. They  show their policy was sold to them by Halifax Property Services, a trading name  of 
Halifax Estate Agencies Ltd. But as these  businesses  are part of Bank of Scotland plc it has 
taken responsibility  for the sale, and in turn their complaint. Thats  why the adjudicators 
letter and this decision refer to Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
On Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application  form the options to select  or decline PPI were 
set out with equal  prominence.  On their form both the Yes and No boxes are ticked  but 
Mr S went on to complete a separate PPI application form answering a number of 
questions to confirm his eligibility  for the cover. This form also set out the cost of the PPI 
separately. So I think Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs S that the PPI was optional, 
and they agreed to take it out for Mr S.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr S to Mr and Mrs S, and I think it seems  to have 
been right for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He was 
entitled to three months full pay and three months half pay if he was sick and some 
redundancy pay. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to his work benefits  and for 
up to 12 months for all accident,  sickness and unemployment claims. And it would have 
allowed him to protect any lump  sum redundancy payment giving increased  financial 
security. 
They told us they had savings worth less than three months salary but the PPI would 
have allowed them to use their savings to cover other living costs whilst Mr S wasnt 
working, or to keep  them intact for their future needs. Mr and Mrs S were  borrowing quite  
a large sum over a long period, secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up 
with the repayments could  have  been  serious for them. Overall, I think  the PPI would 
have been useful if Mr S was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Ref: DRN21790462Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs S all the information  they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application form however, and the 
PPI was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. And Mr S doesnt appear  to 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions  or limitations (such as those affecting 
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain  types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs S have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2179046