K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the way British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) handled a 
claim made under his home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr M holds  a HomeCare policy with British Gas,  which provides cover for his boiler.
In December 2018, Mr Ms Nest product (heat link and thermostat) stopped  working. He 
called British Gas about this and an appointment was arranged for one of its engineers  to 
take a look at the Nest. The engineer said that the Nest heat link was not communicating  
with the thermostat. In light of this, the engineer informed Mr M that he had two options:
replace his Nest with an equivalent  British Gas product free of charge under his 
policy; or
replace his Nest with a Hive product,  which would not be covered  under his policy 
and would cost £190 to fit.
Mr M complained to British Gas that he didnt want its equivalent product as a replacement,  
as he believes the British Gas equivalent is inferior to the Nest. Mr M said that he was willing  
to accept a Hive as a replacement but, didnt think he should have to pay £190 for it. Mr M 
argued that the terms and conditions of his policy  dont say that he is not covered  for repairs 
or replacement of his Nest product.  He also argued that they dont say he would be charged 
for a like for like product such as the Hive.
British Gas said that Mr Ms Nest is a third party product, so it wouldnt  be able to provide 
him with a replacement Nest. But, British Gas did accept that if the Nest became faulty and 
required replacing, it would offer a repair  as long as this was in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms policy.  British Gas added that although Mr Ms Nest wasnt working,  his 
boiler was still providing heating  and hot water. So, it wasnt  satisfied that Mr Ms boiler 
wasnt operating  properly, which it says is a requirement under the terms and conditions  of 
the policy. British  Gas said that Mr M not being  able to use his smart device to regulate the 
temperature of his boiler was only an inconvenience.
Unhappy with British  Gas response, Mr M purchased his own replacement Nest for £218.50. 
He then referred his complaint to our service. He thought  as he is covered under his policy, 
British Gas should reimburse  him for the replacement Nest he purchased.
One of our investigators  upheld the complaint. He said he was satisfied that under the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms policy, British Gas was required to replace his Nest with either a 
Hive or British Gas equivalent. The investigator  thought that because the Hive more  closely 
matched the Nest than the British  Gas equivalent,  it shouldve  replaced Mr Ms Nest with a 
Hive product. For these reasons, the investigator asked British Gas to reimburse Mr M 
£218.50 for the replacement Nest he purchased.
Mr M accepted the investigators findings.  But, British Gas didnt.  It said it had confirmed with 
its engineer that although Mr Ms Nest wasnt working, he still had heating and hot water and 
couldve used the boilers manual override to regulate its temperature. British  Gas also said 
the fault in question was because Mr Ms Nest heat link and thermostat were not 
communicating with each  other, so Mr M was unable to use his smart phone. It added that 
Ref: DRN29610542this is not covered under the terms and conditions of the policy, as its a software  related 
issue which doesnt stop the main  function  of the boiler.
Another investigator reviewed the complaint before an ombudsman considered the matter. 
He thought the complaint  should be upheld, but for slightly different  reasons than those 
provided by the initial  investigator.  He also thought  that British Gas should  reimburse  Mr M 
£190  the cost he wouldve incurred  had he agreed to British  Gas fitting a Hive at the time. 
This was because this is what Mr M was entitled to under  the policy terms.
Both British  Gas and Mr M didnt agree with the second investigators findings.  As no 
agreement could be reached,  the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
Its clear from the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy that faulty thermostats are covered. 
The terms and conditions  relating to Boiler and Controls say, amongst of other things  
Whats covered
All repairs to:
The controls that make the boiler work including the programmer, any thermostats, 
motorised zone  valves and central heating pump;
A replacement of the gas supply pipe and the controls that make your boiler  work  if
we cant repair them
British Gas has said that Mr M was not covered because  the fault in question  was software 
related  that is, Mr M was not able to use his smart phone to regulate the boilers  
temperature. British  Gas applied a section of the terms and conditions that say repairs  
relating to software which doesnt stop the main function of the boiler wont  be covered. 
Having considered this point, Im unable to agree. I say this because  Mr M is not solely  
complaining about the fact he was unable to use his smart phone.  He is complaining  that he 
was unable to use his Nest thermostat to regulate the boilers  temperature, which  Im 
satisfied is a main function of the boiler.  I acknowledge  that there was a manual override he 
couldve used. However, I think its unreasonable to have expected Mr M to have done this, 
particularly as thermostats are specifically covered.
Im also particularly persuaded by the fact that British Gas engineer said in his report, 
Standard wireless  [thermos]stat replacement only under contract.  To me, it appears that 
the engineer was satisfied that Mr M was covered under his policy  for a replacement, but just 
not for a Hive product. Had he considered this was purely a software problem that didnt 
affect the boiler working properly, I dont  think he wouldve offered Mr M a replacement 
thermostat.
For the above reasons, Im satisfied that Mr M was covered  under his policy  for either  a 
replacement Hive or British Gas equivalent.
Ref: DRN29610543I will now consider what type of replacement Mr M shouldve been  provided with.
Under the policy terms and conditions, the following is stated regarding replacement:
-Well provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily an 
identical make  and model or type of fitting. In the case of internet enabled boilers, 
appliances or parts, replacements will only be from the British  Gas or Hive range.
So, I think this demonstrates British Gas shouldve  replaced Mr Ms Nest product with a 
product with similar functionality. From  what Ive seen, the British  Gas equivalent cant  be 
used with a smart  phone.  However, the Hive product can. So I think  it is a closer equivalent 
than the British Gas replacement.  British  Gas hasnt provided  any evidence  to refute this 
despite being given the opportunity to do so. So, I think British Gas shouldve replaced 
Mr Ms Nest with a Hive equivalent free of charge. But, because British  Gas didnt, Mr M 
purchased a replacement Nest for £218.50.
Mr M has said the reason  he purchased the replacement  Nest instead of agreeing  to have  
the Hive fitted by British  Gas for £190 was because it wouldve cost him more to have a Hive 
fitted by another supplier.  I appreciate Mr M was frustrated by his experience  with 
British Gas, but I still wouldve expected him to mitigate his costs. Having a Hive fitted  by 
British Gas was the cheapest option and he wouldve then had a product that was covered 
under the policy.  So, I think  it wouldve been  more reasonable if Mr M had contacted 
British Gas again and agreed to have the Hive fitted by it. For this reason, I dont think it 
would be fair for British  Gas to cover  the full cost of the Nest Mr M purchased  and had 
installed. Overall, I think a fair resolution would be for British  Gas to pay Mr M £190, the cost 
he ought reasonably to have paid to have the Hive fitted.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr £190.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2961054