K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that it wasnt made  clear  to him that the mobile  phone  insurance 
policy he had with Liberty Mutual  Insurance Europe  SE (Liberty) would be cancelled if two 
claims were  made within a twelve month period, nor did it notify him that this had happened.
He also complains that he wasnt made aware that any replacement  phone under the policy  
would be a refurbished  one that would  be covered  with a 24 month  warranty.  
background
Mr W policy began on 23 September  2016. He made two successful claims under the policy 
on:
1 April 2017 for damage to his phone
 20 December 2017 for loss of his phone
Following the second  claim Liberty  cancelled Mr Ws policy. Mr W says he wasnt aware of 
this until his replacement  phone developed  a fault and he wanted to make  another  claim. He 
says he went to a mobile phone  provider T who encouraged him to upgrade  to a newer 
phone as he had no insurance cover in place.
 
He feels the upgrade was a mis-sold to him he thinks T shouldve told him he could use the 
24 month warranty to have his phone repaired, as this wasnt  something  he was aware of.
The policy terms and conditions contain  the following  information:
I. About your replacement device
We dont offer new for old cover so any replacement device you receive  may be 
refurbished to our standard using original equipment manufacturer  parts  we refer to 
this as your as new replacement.
Your replacement device  comes with:
A 24-month warranty
A new SIM with the same phone number if requested; in which case  your old 
SIM will be blocked
Pre-paid packaging to return  any damaged or faulty device (minus the SIM, 
battery and charger)
J. Cancelling your  cover
Well cancel your policy if you cancel  your Pay Monthly contract  with Three, fail to 
pay the monthly insurance premium, have two successful claims in any 12-month 
period or if you make a claim we find to be fraudulent. If we cancel your policy, well 
send you written confirmation, including your cover  end date.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  The investigator didnt recommend the complaint 
should be upheld,  in summary he said:
The policy is clear that only two claims can be made in a twelve month period and 
the policy will then be cancelled
Ref: DRN23582942Its clear within  the policy that replacement phones may be refurbished  ones
Its also clear  the replacement phone comes  with a 24 month warranty
The mis-sale  is not something  that this service  can consider as it isnt an activity 
covered by this service.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator  and so the matter has been  referred  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. 
Having done so I have to let Mr W know that I agree with the outcome the investigator 
reached and for broadly the same reasons.
Liberty has provided evidence to show  a copy of the terms and conditions of the policy were 
sent to Mr W when  he purchased it. The wording of these is sufficiently clear in laying  out 
what Mr W could  expect when having  a handset replaced, and that the policy will cancel  if 
two claims are made within the twelve month  period. So I think Mr W ought reasonably to 
have been aware  of both of these.
It has also shown us that after Mr Ws second claim was successfully met it sent a letter  and 
a text message  to Mr W confirming the policy had been cancelled. So Im satisfied that 
Liberty did let Mr W know that the policy had cancelled.
When Mr W received  his replacement phone there was a booklet  included with it A handy 
guide to your replacement phone. There is information in that booklet about the 24 month 
warranty for the replacement handset, as well as it being mentioned  in the terms and 
conditions as quoted above.  So I think Liberty  did enough to make sure Mr W knew  that the 
replacement handset was covered in this way. 
I havent looked into Mr Ws point  that T mis-sold  him an upgrade  for two reasons:
This wasnt  the responsibility  of Liberty
The sale of mobile phone contracts  isnt a regulated activity that is covered by this 
service
Mr W may be able to take his concern about  the mis-sale to another dispute  resolution 
service to be looked into.
Im satisfied that Liberty has applied the terms and conditions of the policy fairly in this case.  
It follows; I wont be asking Liberty to do anything here.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN23582943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2358294