K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Acromas  Insurance Company  Limited didnt deal properly with a claim 
he made on his motor insurance  policy after an accident in September 2018.
background
The accident  caused minor damage  to Mr As car. Initially Acromas  said the repair  cost 
would be almost £3,000. As Mr As car was worth  much  less than that, it thought  the car 
should be written-off. Mr A didnt  agree,  so it was inspected by an independent firm of 
engineers (firm  B). Firm Bs engineer thought the damage  could be repaired for £599.64, 
including VAT, but he also thought the car should be written-off,  given its low value. He 
suggested a way forward would be to offer Mr A £500 cash  in lieu of repairs  (net of VAT).
Acromas paid Mr A £500, and agreed  to pay the VAT on the repair bill. Mr A told us he 
thought he had a classic car insurance policy and was surprised to find that he didnt. He 
was concerned about the car having  been  recorded as a total loss. He said the car hadnt 
been used for months as it was written-off.  He said it would now have to be rejuvenated, 
taxed, and insured.  He said the cars condition had worsened. He said it had become 
infested with mice  and that they had ruined the wiring, which would cost him a lot to repair.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. She noted that firm Bs engineer  
thought the pre-accident value of Mr As car was only £700. She checked the national trade 
guides and found that estimate was in line with their valuations. So she thought the cash in 
lieu of repairs offer was reasonable.  She said she didnt have any evidence  of damage to the 
car by mice. As Mr A didnt accept the investigators  view, the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
I can see why Mr A thought Acromass  approved  repairers estimate was wrong,  given that 
the damage seemed to him to be so minor.  I think Acromas attempted  to explain that its 
repairers work to the highest  standard  and will always replace - rather  than repair  all the 
necessary parts. Their work is guaranteed for five years. Thats  how insurers generally deal 
with repairs, and it goes  some way to explaining the cost set out in the first estimate.  But it 
was still very high compared  to the sum set out by firm Bs independent engineer.
The engineer didnt provide a detailed estimate,  so its hard to assess the exact reasons for 
the difference between the two costings. But I dont think  thats  the major point. Assuming 
the independent engineers estimate  is correct, he still thought  the car should be written-off, 
just as the approved repairer had suggested.  Thats because of the low pre-accident value of 
Mr As car. We checked the cars valuation was correct and found that it was. So the initial  
high repair  estimate  in itself made no difference to the outcome. 
Mr A told Acromas  hed get an estimate  from another repairer. He also asked  for a copy of 
the original estimate.  That was supplied to him by Acromas in October 2018. It isnt clear 
from the correspondence why Mr A didnt get another opinion  at that point. Instead, he 
queried all aspects of the original estimate in November 2018 and made a formal  complaint.
Ref: DRN22068432Given that Mr A had made it clear that he didnt want the car to be written-off, Acromas put 
the process on hold and didnt record it as a total loss. It seems Acromas  was waiting for 
Mr A to send it an estimate  from another garage and comment on the initial  estimate. The 
file notes show it was only after Mr A said he wasnt happy with Acromass  final response to 
his complaint (in December 2018) that he asked for an independent inspection  of the car. 
I think Acromas  could  have suggested  an independent inspection earlier,  but thats not 
standard practice in a case like this. Usually insurers consider a car to be a total loss if the 
repairs are likely to cost 60% or more of the cars  value. In my view,  there  was no reason for 
Acromas not to rely on the opinion of its approved repairer that repair  costs  would  be much 
higher than that. Even when it got a second  opinion, the independent  engineer thought the 
cars pre-accident value was only £700  and that repairs would cost around £600.    
Its open to insurers  to offer a cash sum in lieu of repairs, which  is what Acromas eventually  
did. It looks as though that wasnt  done  earlier because Mr A had said he was going to get 
an estimate of his own and had asked for a full explanation of the initial repair  estimate. In 
the meantime,  although  Mr As car was driveable, he was given a hire car. That was 
because Acromas hadnt yet settled  the claim. The hire car wasnt  withdrawn until May 2019,  
- although  the settlement was paid in April 2019  which  was to Mr As benefit. 
Mr A says his own car deteriorated as he didnt drive  it for several months. He says thats 
when mice  caused  damage to its wiring, so he had to scrap  the car rather  than having it 
repaired. But despite a request from the investigator,  Mr A hasnt provided  any evidence  of 
the wiring damage, or of the fact that the car wasnt driveable by May 2019.  
Whether the car was driveable or not by that point, I think Mr A could have ensured it wasnt 
unused for such a long time. He says he collected it from Acromass approved repairer, so 
the car was driveable then, and the repairer didnt  say it wasnt roadworthy. I dont think  
thats surprising,  as Mr A says the accident damage  was minimal. Firm Bs engineer  
confirmed in January  2019 that the car was driveable, which  was also to be expected in the 
circumstances. And I dont think having the benefit of a hire car meant Mr A couldnt 
occasionally have used  his own car to keep it ticking over.  
Theres no evidence that Mr A ever had a classic car policy.  His recollection  is that he asked 
for one online,  but the policy he got was a general  motor insurance policy.  It seems Mr A 
didnt notice he hadnt got what he wanted,  but he cant  show  thats Acromass fault.
Mr A complained early  on to Acromas about communication  problems with it. It seems they 
were caused  (at least partly) by the involvement of a broker and a claims  handling firm. Both 
work on behalf of Acromas, but I can see why Mr A would have been confused  by that. It 
seems Acromas resolved  some issues by way of an apology  and a gift. Mr A says many  of 
the queries he put forward werent  answered.  But as far as I can see, Acromas  seems to 
have dealt with all the major issues he raised. It says it didnt get some of Mr As emails.  
Mr A doesnt  accept that, but theres no evidence either way.   
I think its clear  that Mr As car was very special to him, so naturally hes really upset about 
its loss. But as I don think Acromas acted unreasonably overall in the way it handled his 
claim, I cant  uphold Mr As complaint.       
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN22068433Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2206843