K820x#14complaint
Mr R, as the executor  of Mrs Rs estate,  complains that the Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt 
promptly pay a funeral invoice for his late mothers funeral. Hes also unhappy with the way it 
dealt with his complaint.
background
Mrs R died on 12 December 2018.  The following day her son, Mr R, attended  an RBS 
branch to provide her death certificate and her will, which named him as the sole executor.  
During the afternoon of 14 December Mr R provided  RBS with his mothers funeral bill and 
requested that it be paid immediately. This was important to him because he had agreed  to 
pay the funeral  director by 17 December as his mothers funeral had been arranged  for 19 
December 2018.  
Mr R said he contacted  the bereavement team by telephone to ensure the invoice would be 
paid in time. But he said he was kept on hold for a considerable period of time and, when he 
was able to speak with the team, he was told it would take between  3-5 working days  to 
make the payment. He was also told the bill wasnt showing on RBS computer system. 
Mr R said he told RBS this would delay  his mothers funeral. He wasnt  happy that he 
couldnt send  the invoice  to the bereavement  team directly.  And he said that when he 
contacted his branch to escalate  his concerns he was transferred to RBS  complaints team.  
Mr R said he was told he would receive  a telephone call from the bereavement team  on 15 
December. But he said he didnt receive  a call.
On 17 December Mr R received an email from RBS stating  that it had resolved his complaint 
and he had accepted the resolution he had been  offered. Mr R was unhappy  about  this 
because his complaint hadnt been  resolved at that point. So, he contacted  RBS  complaints 
team who told him that it couldnt alter the timescale  for payment of invoices, which he had 
been told about. 
Mr R was unhappy about this and said, as a consequence of what happened, he had to 
make alternative arrangements to pay the funeral director.  He was also unhappy  that RBS 
telephoned him during his late mothers post funeral  lunch. He said during this conversation 
he was informed that RBS had paid the funeral invoice and was considering  awarding  
compensation. RBS later contacted Mr R again to explain that it would credit  his account 
with £75 to reflect the trouble and upset he had been caused.
Mr R was very unhappy about what had happened. So he referred his complaint to our 
service. He didnt think RBS had paid his late mothers funeral invoice promptly. And he 
wasnt happy with the way in which it dealt with his complaint. He also didnt think  the 
compensation it had offered here adequately  recognised  his distress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator looked into this and thought RBS had acted fairly. They didnt think it had 
done anything  wrong or needed  to do anything more here. But Mr R disagreed  and asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN20783122Im aware that Ive summarised  the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal  nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what  I think  are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr R and RBS that Ive read everything  that they have provided. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered  it. Its just that I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficulties Mr R experienced  in trying to pay for his mothers 
funeral. I recognise that this was a particularly distressing time. But my decision on this case  
is based on the actions of RBS. Its for me to determine whether it did something wrong and 
I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The first part of Mr Rs complaint is about whether  RBS dealt with his request that it settle a 
funeral invoice in a timely manner. So, Ill focus on that issue  first.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen  that RBS policy  on the payment of funeral invoices is 
that once the invoice  is presented to the branch it will be sent to the bereavement team  who 
will then scan  it onto RBS computer system. Once thats done the invoice is paid within  3-5 
working days.
In this case it is accepted  by both Mr R and RBS that the funeral  invoice  was presented  to 
RBS by Mr R during the afternoon of 14 December 2018. This was a Friday. Mr R said the 
funeral invoice needed to be settled by 17 December but that was only 1 working day after 
he presented it to RBS.  I understand that the invoice was paid on 19 December. This was on 
the third working  day after it was presented  to RBS, which is in line with the policy it has in 
place for settling funeral invoices. 
Its clear that Mr R isnt happy  with RBS policy on how it pays  funeral invoices. But as our 
investigator explained, were not the regulator of banks and building societies. And that 
means we cant tell a business to change its policy or to adopt  the changes  that Mr R would 
like about when funeral invoices are paid. Im satisfied that RBS followed its own policy  
properly. So I cant fairly conclude its done anything  wrong.
Mr R thinks his late mothers funeral invoice could have been  prioritised.  But as RBS 
explained, its bereavement team cant prioritise one customer  over another given the volume 
of deceased customers  accounts it has to manage each day. I dont think  this is 
unreasonable.
Ultimately, Mr R made arrangements  with the funeral  director about payment without 
checking with RBS what its process was for settling  funeral invoices. It follows  that I cant  
fairly hold RBS responsible for being  unable to comply with the payment deadline that Mr R 
had agreed with the funeral director in circumstances where its process for payment 
prevented it from being able to comply with that deadline. 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Rs complaint, which is about the way in which RBS 
dealt with his complaint.  
RBS has paid Mr R £75 as a goodwill gesture to recognise the poor service  he received 
when making his complaint. I can see that he isnt happy with this amount and thinks RBS 
should compensate  him further to reflect the way in which it handled his complaint. 
Ref: DRN20783123I should explain that, strictly speaking,  we dont have the power to look at how financial 
businesses deal with complaint handling   as its not a regulated activity under the legislation  
that governs our service. So, even if I did think RBS hadnt handled  Mr Rs complaint well, I 
wouldnt be able to uphold  that element of his concerns or make an award. I cant  act outside  
the law. And, in any event, our service  cant compensate Mr R if hes received  poor service.  
This is because, under  our own rules, we cant award compensation to an executor of an 
estate.
I appreciate that Mr R feels very strongly  about  the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered  everything he has said. But, as Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and 
reasonably, Im not going to ask it to do anymore here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2019
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2078312