K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained about the advice he received from AWD  Home Finance Limited, a 
mortgage broker and appointed representative  of Legal & General  Partnership Services 
Limited. He says he was mis-sold a mortgage, and a legal administration service. 
A claims  management company (CMC) brought this compliant  on Mr Cs behalf.
background
Mr H took advice from the broker in late 2005.  He had a discounted mortgage which was 
coming to the end of its discount  period, and he also had an unsecured  loan and an 
overdraft. The broker recommended moving  to a different lender and consolidating his other 
debts.
In 2016, Mr H complained, through the CMC. The CMC said the mortgage  hadnt been 
suitable for Mr H, and that he paid more for the legal services  than he would have done if 
hed instructed his own solicitor. Mr H also asked  whether hed previously complained about 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) and if so, whether or not that had been  settled. 
In terms of the mortgage mis-selling,  the CMC said, in summary:
-at the time, he could  maintain his mortgage  and loan repayments and was in a 
relatively stable financial  position, so he didnt  need a new mortgage. The CMC  said 
the figures on the client review prepared by the broker werent  accurate;
-Mr H incurred additional  costs  to obtain  the mortgage, which the CMC  said came to 
£2,891.
-if Mr H had needed a new mortgage,  he should have stayed with his existing lender 
and chosen one of their products, or restructured his current  mortgage with a further 
advance;
-Mr Hs unsecured borrowing shouldnt  have been consolidated with the mortgage. 
The loan only had nine months  to run, so it would  have  ended much earlier than the 
mortgage. And although the broker had advised that consolidation was likely to 
increase the cost of paying back the debt, it hadnt provided a comparison of the 
costs. The correct  advice, even if Mr H had said he wanted a single payment, would 
have been to advise him not to consolidate  his loan with the mortgage;
In terms of the legal  services, the CMC  said,  in summary:
-the broker forced Mr H to use its nominated conveyancing firm, so he couldnt get the 
work done more  cheaply from another solicitor;
-adding the legal  administration fee and all costs  to the mortgage was inappropriate,  
because it meant  Mr H had to pay interest on them over the term of the mortgage;
-the CMC  said the broker  and L&G benefited  from the fees being added  to the 
mortgage, because  the lender paid them an inflated  procuration fee as a result.  They 
also received commission which they didnt tell Mr H about.  The CMC said the 
Ref: DRN29066982actions were contrary to two legal decisions,  Plevin  v Paragon  Personal Finance 
Limited and McWilliam v Norton Finance.
L&G said that Mr H had been on a discounted rate which  was coming  to an end. At the time, 
standard variable  rates had been rising, so it was reasonable that Mr H had approached a 
broker. L&G pointed out that Mr H could have approached  his existing lender direct  and it 
was also common for lenders to tell existing customers what  it could offer at the end of an 
existing deal. So L&G believed that Mr H would have opted  for this if it had been better than 
the broker could  have obtained for him.
L&G also said that the new mortgage which the broker  sourced was more expensive  than Mr 
H had been paying, and he already spent all his income each month, relying  on his 
overdraft. L&G didnt  think Mr H could have  afforded to keep his loan separate,  so it had 
been suitable to consolidate  it with the mortgage.   
But L&G noted  that Mr H had been offered either free legal costs, or £200 cash  back. Hed 
chosen the cash back, which hadnt been  the right decision  financially. So L&G offered to 
refund Mr H legal  fees of £349.38 plus interest  of £144.36 which  was the interest incurred by 
adding the fees to the mortgage. Deducting the £200 Mr H had had instead, L&Gs offer 
came to £293.74.
L&G also confirmed that Mr H had complained  before about Payment Protection Insurance  
(PPI) and that the claim had been  settled in 2012. So I havent commented further on this 
aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H, represented by the CMC, wasnt satisfied  by L&Gs response,  and complained to this 
service. 
In relation to the issues about  commission, while the complaint has been with us, the CMC 
has confirmed acceptance of L&Gs offer to resolve  that aspect. So thats no longer an issue 
and I dont consider  it here.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint. He said it was clear from the client  review  
form and letter of recommendation, which Mr H had signed, that Mr H had been  spending  
more than his income  each month. The CMC had said the figures were wrong, but hadnt 
produced any evidence to show this. And Mr H had made it clear he wanted to pay off the 
debts and include fees in the mortgage, and move  to a fixed rate mortgage for certainty 
about his outgoings. The adjudicator also considered the legal fees, and considered that 
L&G had made  a fair offer of compensation.  
The CMC didnt agree. It disagreed that Mr H had wanted one manageable payment,  and 
said a single payment  had been intended to persuade Mr H that the new mortgage  was 
more attractive. The CMC  also disputed Mr Hs financial position,  and said that his 
expenditure should have  been broken down into more detail. It also argued that it should 
have been made clear  to Mr H that adding his loan to the mortgage would, not was likely 
to increase the overall cost. And it believed Mr H hadnt had any option other than to use 
the brokers recommended solicitor.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN29066983mortgage suitability  including  loan consolidation
I have looked  at the documents  completed at the time. The mortgage record  of suitability, 
which Mr H signed, shows that hed had a monthly  deficit of £37 under his previous 
mortgage and loan arrangements, and that the new package would save  him £113 a month. 
Mr H signed this document.  Ive also looked at the client  review  document  which sets out 
elements of Mr Hs expenditure and income,  which reaches the figure of £37 deficit  each 
month. The CMC argues  that these figures,  especially a figure for other  expenses  arent 
sufficiently detailed or are inaccurate.  But the figures  are ones  which Mr H supplied at the 
time. 
Based on these figures, I cant  say that the new mortgage was unsuitable.  It addressed this 
deficit and it met what Mr H had signed to say were his priorities. These were:
    -     avoiding  the uncertainty of interest rate changes
-no tie-in after a fixed, stepped or discounted rate
-ability to add fees to the loan
-fixing mortgage payments for a certain period. 
I have considered the CMCs argument  that it would have been better for Mr H to have 
stayed with his existing lender, choosing a fixed rate product.  Its not practical to know,  some 
14 years  later, what products would have been available  either from Mr Hs existing lender, 
or other lenders at the time. But I think its likely that as Mr H was nearing the end of his 
discounted rate with his existing lender, hed have been told  or could have asked  about 
replacement products. So I consider its likely  that at the time, Mr H was satisfied that the 
deal he was getting with the broker was better than he could have had from his existing 
lender. 
In regards to the consolidation  of Mr Hs loan,  the CMC has told us that this had nine months 
to run. This conflicts with information  which Mr H told the broker  at the time, where he said it 
had started in 2004 and had 21 months still to run.  
Its correct that Mr H would probably have  paid more in interest by adding  a loan of this 
length to a 20 year mortgage. I find that the wording on the suitability document was 
sufficient to warn Mr H about this. It said that the overall cost of repaying these liabilities is 
likely to increase as the term is longer. The broker didnt  have  to say that the cost definitely 
will be higher, as the CMC claims,  and nor did it have to provide  an illustration or figures. 
The suitability document records that he wanted to go ahead with the consolidation 
because having  one manageable payment  is more  important to you.  The CMC believes 
this was the advisers view rather than Mr Hs  but Mr H signed the document at the time. 
Taking all these factors into account, I dont find that theres evidence that Mr Hs mortgage, 
including the consolidation, was mis-sold.  
Legal costs
L&G has accepted  that Mr H was disadvantaged by choosing £200 cash instead of the free 
legal fees which he could have had. And he was also charged  interest  on the legal fees 
because they were added to the mortgage. Ive set out the detail of the offer above, which I 
consider is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN29066984my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  for additional  compensation. I leave 
it to Mr H to decide whether he wishes to accept Legal & General  Partnership  Services  
Limiteds offer to pay him £293.74 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2906698