K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) has acted incorrectly in its 
handling of his loans after he began experiencing financial difficulties.
background
In May 2016  Mr C took out a personal  loan for £7,500 with NatWest. In March  2018 he took 
out a separate personal loan of £16,000, again with NatWest. Repayments to both loans 
appear to have been made as scheduled  until December 2018.
In January 2019 Mr C requested a payment holiday from NatWest  on his loan accounts. He 
explained this was due to a reduction  in his income in addition  to health issues he was 
dealing with. The request was declined  by NatWest.
Mr C raised an earlier  separate complaint with our service about this. We looked into that 
complaint and said that we didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong by declining the 
request for a payment  holiday  as this wasnt something it offered. The adjudicator  dealing  
with the complaint did however say that, as there seemed little prospect of Mr Cs 
circumstances improving,  it would  be appropriate for the bank to transfer his accounts  to its 
recoveries department. This was around  March  2019. It appears NatWest  agreed with this 
suggestion.
The complaint Im considering here is about what happened after this was suggested.
NatWest has said it started the process  of moving  Mr Cs loans to its recoveries department 
as suggested.  But this could not be done  immediately as there  were  certain  processes  it 
needed to follow.  It says it began the process of issuing default notices and formal  demands 
in respect of the outstanding balances.  NatWest says these were  sent to Mr C by post.  The 
accounts were passed to NatWests recoveries department in July 2019. While these 
processes had been ongoing it had continued  to apply interest in line with the underlying  
contracts. The last interest applied was in June 2019.
Mr C complained to NatWest that it had continued  to charge interest  to his accounts while 
completing the process of moving them  to its recoveries  department.  He was also unhappy it 
had not accepted a repayment proposal hed made, while this process  was ongoing,  or 
explained why and felt it hadnt  acted compassionately.
NatWest responded  and said that it had followed its usual process by continuing to apply  
interest  as it wouldnt normally stop doing so until an account  was with its recoveries 
department. And it said that its records indicated it had responded to the repayment  proposal 
made, which had been  declined because  it felt the information provided suggested this was 
unaffordable. The letter NatWest sent setting out this response had a different customers  
name on it to Mr C.
Mr C then complained  further to NatWest. He said that his repayment proposal was 
affordable to him and represented the maximum he could offer.  He said if NatWest  didnt 
accept it, and defaulted the accounts,  it would receive nothing  as he had no tangible assets. 
He also raised concerns  about the wrong  name being used on the previous response. He 
said he felt this was a serious error  and a breach  of data protection  regulations. So, he said 
he expected NatWest to pay significant  compensation.
Ref: DRN25910592NatWest acknowledged  that the previous response  had been  addressed  incorrectly and 
offered Mr C £80 for the upset caused  by this. But NatWest said that, besides the incorrect  
contact information,  no other information  had been included in the letter incorrectly  and there 
was no evidence to suggest Mr Cs details had been  shared with another  party.
Mr C then asked our service to look into his complaint. In addition  to the concerns hed 
raised with NatWest, Mr C said that he was unhappy that defaults had been recorded on his 
accounts. He said he had not received any formal correspondence from NatWest about this 
so felt it had acted unlawfully.
One of our investigators  considered things,  but overall didnt  think  NatWest needed to do 
any more. He didnt  think it was unfair of NatWest to continue to apply  interest while the 
process of transferring the loans to its recoveries department was carried  out. And he didnt  
think NatWest had unduly delayed doing  so. He noted that it had paused  this for a few days  
while it considered  Mr Cs new repayment  proposal but overall,  he thought  it had acted 
reasonably.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  was obliged to accept the repayment proposal made by 
Mr C. And he felt NatWests decision to reject this, based on the information Mr C had 
provided it, was fair. He also didnt think the fact that a proposal had been  made,  meant that 
it was unreasonable of NatWest to have defaulted  the accounts.  He felt it was entitled to 
take this action, as they were not being  repaid, and he was satisfied the correct process had 
been followed for doing this. And he was satisfied, on balance,  that the required information 
had been sent to Mr C.
Turning to the incorrectly addressed letter, our investigator explained that it wasnt  our role to 
establish if there had been a breach of data protection regulation as that was a matter for the 
relevant regulator.  But we would  look at whether an error had been made and what the 
appropriate way to put that right was. The investigator said, based on what hed seen, he 
didnt think there was anything to suggest  that Mr Cs information had been incorrectly 
provided to a third party and thought  on balance the mistake with the letter sent to him had 
been administrative. So, he thought the offer of £80 already made by NatWest as a fair way 
to address this.
Mr C did not accept the investigators  findings. He said that if NatWest was unable  to prove 
that he had received correspondence about the accounts being defaulted it was acting 
unlawfully. And he said that as it hadnt done  this, he considered the debts  in dispute and 
potentially unenforceable. As a result, he was also unhappy that NatWest had continued to 
attempt to collect the debt, including involving third party collection agents.
As Mr C did not agree  with the investigators  findings, the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has made a number of references  to NatWests actions being,  in his view,  unlawful and 
having breached legal requirements. And he has suggested  he thinks  this means its actions  
in pursuing the outstanding balances are incorrect  or that the debt is potentially  no longer 
valid.
Ref: DRN25910593I think its important at this stage to reiterate  the role of our service. We are an informal 
dispute resolution service   an alternative to entities  such  as the courts. And while we take 
account of relevant laws and regulations,  we make our findings  based on what we consider 
to be fair and reasonable.
So, in reaching my decision, I wont be making a finding on whether any law has been  
breached, as Mr C suggests, as this is not my role. And likewise, I wont  be deciding whether 
the outstanding balances  would be enforceable in a court of law, as again this is not within 
my remit, as only a court can ultimately decide that.
Rather Ill be looking at the information  provided by both parties and everything they have 
said. And Ill then decide, on a fair and reasonable basis, if I think NatWest  has made any 
errors, and if so, what it needs to do to put those right.
I can see from Mr Cs correspondence that he feels very strongly about this. So, I just want 
to reassure both he and NatWest that, while I may not comment  directly on each point 
theyve made, as my findings will be based  on the key issues in this complaint  as I see them, 
I have considered everything  both parties  have  said in reaching my decision.
NatWest continuing  to apply interest to the loans and declining  Mr Cs repayment proposal
Following the previous  complaint to our service, and Mr C informing it he was in financial  
difficulties, NatWest concluded it was appropriate to transfer Mr Cs loans to its recoveries 
department. It said that, when carried  out, this would result  in interest and charges stopping.  
It started  the process  of transferring the accounts  in March 2019.  And this process  was 
completed in July 2019  with the last interest applied to the accounts  in June 2019.
NatWest has explained  that when it moves  accounts to its recoveries department, it registers 
them as in default. And before it can do that it is required to take certain steps. These  
couldnt be concluded without allowing the proper  time for a response.  So overall, I dont  
think NatWest unduly  delayed the transfer of the accounts.
Mr C feels interest  and charges shouldve  been  suspended whilst this was all ongoing.
Where a customer informs a lender that they are having difficulty  making  repayments,  Id 
expect that business to act positively and sympathetically and look at what  it can do to assist  
its customer. But there isnt a set definition of what this will look like or a requirement that a 
business must take specific  action. One thing  a business might consider is suspending 
interest or charges on an account, while  someone is in financial difficulties. But a business is 
not obliged to do this.
There is an argument, if the decision was taken to move the accounts to recoveries, that 
NatWest felt the situation was unlikely to improve. So, with that in mind, it couldve 
potentially stopped further interest.  But part of the reason for the set timescales it had to 
follow to move the accounts was to allow for circumstances  to potentially change  or an 
alternative arrangement  to be agreed, which mightve resulted in the accounts not reaching 
the recoveries  department  and continuing under the original terms. And Mr C did put forward 
an alternative repayment arrangement during the transfer of the accounts  to the recoveries 
department  which I think supports NatWests decisions to continue to operate the accounts 
as normal until this process was concluded.
Ref: DRN25910594So, with that in mind, and given the interest  and charges applied to the loans seem to have 
been added  in line with the terms and conditions of the relevant credit agreements, in the 
circumstances I dont  think  it was unreasonable of NatWest to continue  to charge this until 
the relevant processes were  concluded.
Mr C is unhappy that the repayment proposal  he made, after this process began, was not 
accepted. Where someone is experiencing financial difficulties and a repayment  proposal is 
made, Id expect a lender to consider this. But a business isnt obliged to just accept a 
repayment proposal. I think it would be entitled  to think about the amount outstanding and 
the offer made, how long that would extend  indebtedness by, whether that was acceptable to 
it and to look at whether  that plan itself was affordable to the customer.
Here Ive seen evidence that Mr C offered to pay £10 a month  towards the outstanding 
balances on a temporary basis. However, the information he provided to NatWest  suggested  
that his expenditure already exceeded his income at that time, by quite a significant amount. 
So, NatWest  decided  it didnt think the plan was acceptable   as it didnt appear to be 
affordable to Mr C. I dont think NatWest acted  unreasonably in taking that view or that it was 
unfair of it to therefore  reject the proposal.
registering the accounts as defaulted
Mr C has said it was unfair of NatWest to default the accounts when he was still making 
repayment proposals. He also says it hasnt proved that he received the relevant 
notifications about  this, so he thinks its actions are unlawful.
The last successful payment to either  of Mr Cs loans appears to have been  made  in 
December 2018.  So, in March 2019  both accounts were three payments in arrears.  I think  
NatWest was entitled at that stage to consider the loans as in default and to start the 
process of formally recording  this. And I dont  think repayment proposals made after this 
meant that it was wrong to continue this process.  NatWest considered  the repayment 
proposal made by Mr C but, as Ive already explained, didnt accept it. The overall  position  of 
the account at that stage was unchanged   they were still several months in arrears. So, 
I dont think NatWest was wrong to consider  the account still in default and continue the 
related formal recording process.
Before registering an account  as in default,  and reporting this to credit reference agencies,  a 
business is expected to send certain notifications to the account  holder.
NatWest has provided template copies of the letters it says it sent Mr C about  its intention to 
default the loans. And it has provided  system notes indicating that these  letters were sent 
correctly and that the address used  was the same  as the address to which  it later sent its 
responses to his complaint  which he appears  to have successfully received.
Mr C says that he has never received any of these formal letters  and because  NatWest cant  
prove he did it has acted  unlawfully in registering the default  on his loans. Again, while 
I have regard for the relevant laws and regulations, my role is to decide matters  on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
Im conscious, from some  of the correspondence Mr C sent to NatWest as part of his 
complaint, he acknowledged that it might choose to mark  the accounts  as in default.  So, 
I think he was generally aware  that this was a possibility. And in his correspondence, he said 
he had no means available to make  any further payments towards the account,  above the 
Ref: DRN25910595repayment proposal  which had already been  rejected. So, it doesnt  appear,  whether the 
letters were received or not, that he wouldve been  able to repay  the arrears or bring  the 
loans back up to date.
That said,  having considered all of the evidence provided, Im satisfied anyway  on balance 
that the relevant letters were sent by NatWest and that they were  addressed  correctly,  based 
on the contact  information  it held. Mr C says NatWest hasnt shown  that these were received 
by him. But I dont think NatWest needs to go that far. I think  showing that the relevant 
notices were sent correctly is enough for NatWest  to have done what  was required of it and 
to show, in my view, that its actions were reasonable.
Taking all of that into account,  while I know  this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, 
I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong  by marking  these  accounts  in default or 
reporting this information to credit  reference agencies  in line with standard industry 
practice.
I know Mr C has continued to dispute this. And, as he has disputed  it, he thinks  it is unfair 
that NatWest has continued  to pursue  the balance owed or exercise its rights under the 
original credit agreement.  There  isnt any dispute  though that Mr C took out the loans. And 
Ive seen evidence  that he had the benefit of the funds as they were paid into his NatWest 
current account. With that in mind,  and again  as NatWest appears to have acted  correctly  in 
marking the accounts in default, I dont think I can say it has acted unfairly  in continuing to 
request repayment  of the outstanding balances.
incorrectly addressed  correspondence
In one of the complaint responses  NatWest sent Mr C, it used an incorrect name and 
appears to have included address details of another party. Mr C has said that this is a 
serious breach  of data protection regulations and he wants  significant compensation for this.
As our investigator indicated, it is the role of the Information Commissioners  Office (the 
relevant regulator) to determine if there has been  a breach of specific data protection  
regulation. Our role, as I explained  previously, is to decide on a fair and reasonable basis, 
whilst having regard  for relevant regulations, whether a business has made an error.
The incorrect information included  in the letter NatWest sent to Mr C belonged to another 
party. So, it was not his data that was included incorrectly  in the correspondence. And 
I havent seen  anything that suggests  his information was shared separately in error with a 
third party. So, while I dont doubt that this was upsetting for Mr C, I dont think the 
information Ive seen suggests confidential  information relating to him was disclosed to 
someone else in error. And so, I think the impact, beyond  him being unhappy about the error 
in the letter  sent to him  which seems  to me likely  due to a typing error   was minimal.
NatWest offered Mr C £80 for the upset  caused by the error in the letter that it sent to him. 
Taking everything into account  I think that offer is fair and reasonable, so I wont  be asking 
NatWest to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN25910596Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2021.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2591059