K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited renewed his motor  insurance 
policy against his wishes.
background
Mr J got a renewal invitation from Hastings on 6 September 2018. He emailed it to say he 
didnt want the policy renewed. He didnt  think hed agreed to automatic renewal. Hastings 
said hed have to call to stop the renewal. Mr J replied on 8 September 2018 in writing  to 
confirm that he didnt want the renewal. He also said hed cancelled  his direct debit.
Hastings later told Mr J that it had renewed his policy on 30 September  2018. And it had 
sent a new direct debit  instruction to his bank. Mr J cancelled  it. Hastings  then said it would 
be taking a payment  from Mr Js debit card on 18 October 2018.  When Mr J complained,  
Hastings said his original  policy  was set up for automatic renewal. It said sending  a new 
direct debit mandate to his bank was in in line with its standard  practice.  And it said Mr J had 
given it authority to debit  his card when he set up the original policy.  
Hastings cancelled the new policy on 14 October 2018. It refunded the £16.33 it thought it 
had charged Mr J. Hastings later realised that Mr J hadnt been  charged for the new policy.  
That was because the new direct debit mandate wasnt in place and the policy  was 
cancelled before a payment was to be taken from Mr Js card.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Js complaint. He noted that the original policy said 
most policies  would automatically renew. To avoid it, a consumer would have to opt out of 
that process.  Later on, the investigator said there seemed to be no systems  limitation  that 
meant Hastings could only accept notice of non-renewal by phone. But he said he couldnt 
uphold Mr Js complaint,  as Mr J hadnt  faced any financial loss.
Mr J said he had prevented some financial loss by stopping  Hastings attempts  to charge 
him for a policy hed told it he didnt want. He said hed spent  time and money  calling 
Hastings to deal with an issue that should  never  have arisen. He queried Hastings business  
practices. The investigator said we didnt have  the power to make Hastings change  its 
practices. He didnt think its poor service merited an award of compensation. 
Since there was no agreement, I issued a provisional opinion  as follows:
As the investigator  has said, we cant deal with concerns  about  a businesss general 
practices and procedures, or whether  in general a business  is acting  responsibly.  Those  
issues are for the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority,  to consider. But we 
can look at the impact a businesss practices  may have had on a consumer
In this case, Mr Js concerns are about not being told about  automatic renewal  and not being 
able to stop the renewal unless he spoke to one of Hastings advisors.
Its common for insurers to automatically renew  policies. We think  theres a major benefit in 
that for consumers. It gives  them protection against  becoming uninsured  without realising it. 
But we think  insurers should draw the process to consumers attention. That gives  them the 
chance to opt-out of it if they like.
In this case, Hastings  has shown that the cover summary in the policy  documents  sent to 
Ref: DRN22718132Mr J in 2017 set out the renewal process.  The summary says most policies are automatically 
renewed. It says a renewal notice  will be sent out at least  21 days prior to the renewal  date. 
So I dont  think Mr J can say he wasnt made aware of the process. 
Mr J thought Hastings  had no right to try to take money from his debit card for a renewal 
payment. In the end, no attempt was made. But the welcome letter  sent with the 2017 policy 
documents said Mr J had agreed  to continuous payment authority. It gave Hastings the right 
to take payments from Mr Js debit  card, as long as it told him it was going to do so.
All the policy documents said about  stopping a renewal was that a consumer should let 
Hastings know before the renewal date by contacting its customer services  team.  The 
renewal notice sent to Mr J in 2018 also said all he had to do was to contact Hastings. Mr J 
did so on the day he got the renewal notice, 24 days before the policy renewal date.    
I dont think Hastings has provided a good  reason why a consumers decision not to renew  a 
policy cant be accepted  by email or by letter. I can see why it may be in a consumers 
interests at times to speak to an advisor - perhaps about the renewal quote. An advisor  may 
be able to match (or better) other  quotes. But I dont think its fair to set aside a consumers 
clear wishes  and renew a policy just because that consumer hasnt called Hastings.  
I think Hastings should have acted on Mr Js email of 6 September 2018. After  it asked him 
to call, he sent a letter  and further  emails confirming he didnt want  the policy renewed. Yet 
Hastings still renewed it. I think Mr J had good  reason  to be unhappy about that. 
In my opinion, Mr J faced a moderate  amount  of distress and inconvenience  as a result  of 
Hastings actions. He had to contact his bank twice to cancel direct  debit  instructions. He 
also had to engage in correspondence  plus a long telephone call  with Hastings. In the 
end the policy was cancelled without any cost to Mr J. But he was worried  for several weeks 
about what was happening. He had to stay on top of events and complain to Hastings to 
ensure the renewal issue was sorted  out. I dont think  any of that would have been 
necessary had Hastings  accepted Mr Js decision from the start. So I think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Hastings to pay Mr J £150  compensation.
Mr J accepted my provisional  view,  although  he still didnt think the automatic renewal was 
sufficiently highlighted  and also queried  the purpose  of the continuous  payment authority. 
Hastings said it had made it clear to Mr J what would happen if he didnt cancel the renewal  
by phone. It didnt think  its request was unreasonable.  But it said it was amending  its 
renewal process so policy holders in the future  wouldnt  have to call to cancel renewals.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Despite Mr Js further comments, I remain of the view that Hastings did enough to highlight 
the automatic  renewal  process. I understand why he may have misinterpreted  the purpose of 
the continuous payment authority. But I dont think that was Hastings fault.  And Mr J has 
accepted my decision despite his ongoing concerns about these issues.
Hastings has a process in place for stopping automatic  renewal that involves consumers 
having to speak to an advisor. I think its entitled to devise its own processes. And as I said 
in my provisional decision,  I can see that speaking to an advisor  might  be in a consumers 
interests at times. But it doesnt seem fair and reasonable  to me that it insisted on a call from 
Ref: DRN22718133Mr J. I think hed made it clear that he didnt  want the policy to be renewed. Hastings just 
ignored his wishes.  Had it been able to explain why it was necessary for Mr J to have a 
conversation with an advisor, I might have reached  a different conclusion. But as far as I can 
see there was no good reason for it. 
Having taken into account the latest comments from both parties, I still think it would be fair 
and reasonable for Hastings to pay Mr J £150  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to pay Mr J £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2271813