K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited (VFS) unfairly  charged him 
for damage  to his car when he voluntarily terminated his Hire Purchase Agreement.  He 
would like all charges  waived.
background 
Mr R says that he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with VFS in June 2014 but decided 
to voluntarily end his contract in April 2018. He understood  as he had paid more than half of 
the total price  that under consumer credit legislation, subject to wear and tear, there would 
be no additional cost.
He says he returned the car in a good,  roadworthy  condition. That the car was 46 months old 
had less than 16,000  miles on the clock. And that some wear and tear should be expected.
He doesnt feel the £626.59  inclusive of VAT VFS has charged him is fair. In particular he 
doesnt feel three charges of £36 for scratches  on the alloy were  fair as he had had two 
repairs  in June  2014 and June  2018  under an insurance policy taken out at the time of the 
HP agreement to cover this type of repair.   
VFS said it used the British Vehicle  Rental  and Leasing Association Guidelines  (BVRLA) to 
assess fair wear and tear charges and had charged  correctly. It did agree  to remove one 
charge for alloy scratches.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that all the charges for excessive wear  
and tear that VFS charged for were fair under the BVRLA except one for alloy scratches .He 
felt the damage  wasnt clear from the photos submitted. On this basis VFS agreed to 
withdraw this charge.  This reduced  Mr Rs bill to £583.39  including VAT.
Mr R didnt accept this view. He said he had taken out tyre and alloy cover as part of his Hire 
Purchase Agreement. This was provided  by an external  company.  He said repairs  were 
made to the tyres and alloy,  but not correctly.  So he disputed VFS and our adjudicator 
saying he should  have contacted this company to get the repairs  done prior to returning his 
vehicle.
He also felt that charging £135.98 twice for damage to two tyres  due to gouges was 
excessive  he said these  were the tyres  he arranged to have repaired and says he was told 
the tyres  didnt need repairing.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He felt the BVRLA 
guidelines on damage to tyres had been fairly  applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate  his is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our adjudicator.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  for the Hire Purchase Agreement that Mr R took out. 
These do allow for VFS to charge for damage in excess of fair wear  and tear when cars are 
Ref: DRN21590242returned. I think Mr R has acknowledged this as in his letter  to us he said he understood,  
under consumer legislation, as he had paid more than half the cost of the agreement he 
would have to pay anything else, subject to  wear  and tear. 
Unfortunately VFS is entitled to charge for damage that is outside normal  wear  and tear. To 
assess this it uses  BVRLA guidelines.
I appreciate Mr R says the car had low mileage and some wear and tear would be expected.  
But low mileage cant be offset  against  damage that falls outside fair wear  and tear.
In his view our adjudicator  went through in detail each charge VFS applied  quoting the 
relevant BVRLA  guidance so I dont intend to repeat that here. But I can assure Mr R I have 
looked very carefully at the view and agree with our adjudicators references to the BVRLA 
guidance and his thoughts. I think the charges VFS has applied are fair. And I think it was 
reasonable of VFS to accept  our adjudicators  view that scratch to one alloy was unclear. 
On that basis it agreed to remove  this charge
Mr R has made the point that when he took out his agreement he also took out tyre and alloy 
insurance cover. He says he had work carried out in June 2014 and June 2016 .And says he 
was told the tyres didnt  need any work.
Mr R has given us details  of work  carried out to the alloys dated June 2016. But as he ended 
his agreement in 2018 I dont think that work carried  out two years  before would mean  there 
wouldnt be further damage needing  repair two years  later.  I cant  see that he has given us 
any evidence to show that the tyres didnt need  any work.
In response to our adjudicators view Mr R said he had had work  done six months or so 
before ending his agreement  but I cant see any evidence of this.
Based on all the information I have I think VFS has fairly charged Mr R for excess  wear and 
tear. So on this basis I have no grounds to ask VFS to waive the charges it has applied.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2159024