K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains about the time it took for Advantage Insurance Company Limited to close a 
claim that he made on his motor  insurance  policy.
 
background
In January 2017, Mr K was involved in a car accident which wasnt  his fault and made a 
claim on his insurance with Advantage. His car was deemed a total loss and payment was 
made to Mr K. Advantage passed a file to solicitors to recover the losses  from the insurer  of 
the party at fault for the accident. Mr Ks claim was kept open   as is usual practice  until 
recovery was made.  
In August  2017,  Mr Ks insurance  was due for renewal. Because  the claim was still open, he 
was charged a higher premium and his No Claims Discount (NCD) was reduced.  Advantage 
said that once  theyd recovered  the losses the claim would be closed. Hed then receive a 
refund for the extra premium and his NCD would be reinstated.
Mr K called regularly for an update. In October 2017, he complained  about  the lack of 
progress. Advantage  looked into his complaint and explained that the claim couldnt be 
closed until theyd recovered their losses. But they agreed their communication could have  
been better and offered him £75 in recognition of that. 
In February 2018,  Mr K referred his complaint  to us as the claim remained open. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ks complaint.  The claim was finally closed in June 2018, and Mr 
K received a refund for the extra premiums hed paid, and his NCD was reinstated. Our 
adjudicator thought that the £75 offered by Advantage wasnt sufficient for the level of 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr K by their poor communication.  He recommended  
a further £75  a total of £150. 
Mr K accepted our adjudicators recommendation, but Advantage didnt they said they felt 
£75 was sufficient.  As theres been  no agreement, Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me 
for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ks claim has now been resolved and closed. His NCD has been  reinstated and the extra  
premiums he had to pay have been refunded. Its not in dispute  that Advantage should  have 
done better in keeping  Mr K informed. Theyve acknowledged that the solicitors acting on 
their behalf  to recover the costs and close the claim should have been more proactive  in 
their communication with Mr K. So the only issue  for me to decide is the level of 
compensation that Advantage  should pay Mr K as a result. 
The accident  happened  in January 2017 and Mr K submitted his claim in good  time. There  
were three vehicles involved in the accident,  and such claims always take a while to resolve. 
And its usual practice for insurers to charge a higher premium and reduce NCDs while 
claims remain open, and then refund premiums and reinstate NCDs on resolution. But we 
would expect insurers to keep their customers informed with progress and to resolve claims 
as quickly as possible. 
Ref: DRN23574972In this case, Mr K had to contact Advantage on a regular basis  to obtain updates. According 
to the claim notes, there seems to have  been  very little proactive communication  from 
Advantage or their solicitors. Theres no doubt that this caused Mr K distress  and 
inconvenience as he had to chase things  up and was promised updates that didnt come. 
The claim took almost 18 months to be resolved.  
I dont think the offer made by Advantage in October 2017 of £75 adequately recognised the 
distress this caused Mr K. The claim remained open  for a further eight months  and the 
communication with him was no better after the offer had been  made.  I think Advantage 
should pay Mr K a total of £150  in compensation in recognition for the distress caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Advantage Insurance  Company Limited 
should pay him £150 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2357497