K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) has refused to cover a claim 
he submitted under  his private medical  insurance  policy.
background
Mr C has BUPA private medical insurance  through an employer scheme. In 2017  Mr C 
suffered a serious  accident at work and was admitted to hospital. He remained under 
medical care for approximately  three  months. When he was discharged from hospital Mr C 
contacted BUPA to make a claim under  his policy. 
BUPA paid Mr C a lump  sum under the cash benefits element of his policy as this entitled 
him to £50 per night  for the first 35 nights he stayed  in hospital. However it refused to cover 
the cost of any of the treatments Mr C had received as he hadnt  been admitted as a private  
patient and so his medical  treatment had been  covered by the National Health Service 
(NHS).
Mr C says that nowhere in his membership guide or certificate does it explicitly state that 
BUPA will not cover  the cost of medical  treatment received through the NHS. He believes 
that he is entitled to claim under his policy as all of the treatment and care he received can 
be defined as eligible  treatment as per the policy documents. He accepts that BUPA  has not 
been billed  by the NHS but feels it should pay the money to him directly  so he can donate it 
to a NHS  charity. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs complaint. He said that because Mr Cs 
treatment was paid for by the NHS directly he wasnt eligible to make  a claim via his private 
medical insurance policy, so he didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr C disagreed with the 
investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint  so it has been  
passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the findings of the 
investigator and wont  be upholding Mr Cs complaint. Id like to explain why. 
Mr C has argued  that nowhere  in his policy documents does it state that BUPA will not cover  
the cost of treatment  provided by the NHS.  Ive read through  the documents  and I agree  that 
this is the case.  However the document does clearly state that the policy is to cover the cost 
of private medical  treatment.
Page three of the membership guide states:
When you receive private medical treatment you have a contract  with the providers of your 
treatment. You are responsible for the costs you incur in having private treatment. However, 
if your treatment is eligible  treatment  we pay the costs that are covered under your benefits. 
Any costs,  including  eligible treatment costs,  that are not covered  under  your benefits are 
your sole responsibility.
Ref: DRN24098322It may be that Mr C believes that by having  BUPA cover in place, he will always  be treated 
as a private patient. However this is not case.  In the UK residents are fortunate  enough to be 
entitled to free health care under the NHS.  Private medical insurance is something that 
people may choose  to pay for and then claim on if it will speed up their treatment, or the 
treatment would not have otherwise been available  to them  through the NHS. 
However in the majority of instances  people with private medical insurance will still receive 
free care and treatment  under  the NHS at no cost to themselves or their medical insurance 
provider. There may be no difference in the standard of care or the treatment that they 
receive; in fact in many  instances the care will be provided by the same physicians.  This is 
why private medical  insurance is seen as an option for consumers in the UK and not a 
necessity as it is in other countries.
In Mr Cs case he was admitted to hospital and received care and treatment as an NHS 
patient. He was not admitted as a private  patient.  He was not billed as a private  patient  and 
he has not been asked to cover any costs relating to any aspect of his treatment. 
The nature of insurance is that it is there to provide us with compensation for a loss or 
expense that we incur. By its nature it is often something we pay for but hope to never  use. 
Mr C has expressed  frustration that he has been  contributing financially to a private  medical 
insurance scheme through his salary,  and despite needing and receiving medical care,  has 
been unable  to claim under it. 
If Mr C had been admitted  to hospital  as a private medical insurance patient he may have 
been able to claim under this policy. However thats not what  happened in this instance. And 
because the care and treatment he received  was not defined as private  medical treatment 
he is not entitled to claim for any of the associated costs under his BUPA  policy.  And 
because hes not entitled to claim I wont  be asking  BUPA to do any more in relation to his 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2409832