K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs K bought the policy in 2002  at the same time as taking out a store card.
 
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mrs K aware that she had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. 
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ks store card application form. On this form,  
section 2 is headed Protecting  your account. Theres an option to sign separately in 
this section to add PPI to the account and Mrs K has signed  separately in this section. 
So I think this indicates that she wanted PPI.
Ive noted what  Mrs K has said about the application being marked  with Xs where she 
needed to sign.  But in my opinion its equally as likely that the Xs were added  to draw 
Mrs Ks attention to the option for PPI. 
Although Mrs K has said that she had no recollection of any PPI sale, its possible that 
given the time thats passed, she may not recall everything clearly now.   
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs K so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs K doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ks comments,  including what  shes said about her existing 
means of making  her repayments  if she was unwell and unable to work. But based on what  
Ref: DRN23864492Mrs K has said, after six months her sick pay would have decreased  to half pay. This policy 
could have paid out for longer than Mrs Ks period of full sick pay. 
This would also have allowed Mrs K the option  of not needing to rely on her sick pay to make 
her repayments and the option of using  her sick pay to help pay for other  living expenses 
that she may have  had.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2386449