K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Insurance Factory Ltd (trading  as Masterquote) has treated her unfairly 
when it suddenly cancelled her insurance  and told her shed have to buy a new policy.
 
background
Ms L owns the freehold of a property that is occupied by others  on a leasehold basis. Ms L is 
responsible for insuring  the building. Ms L has been buying her insurance  for several  years  
through Masterquote.  Masterquote is an insurance  intermediary: it looks  for policies suitable 
for Ms L and looks for the best prices,  before  suggesting which  one she should buy. Each  
year Ms L paid for her insurance in instalments, and the policy was automatically renewed.  
For some  time Ms L had been insured by business  A, but in December 2017 her policy was 
provided by business B. Ms Ls insurance  was due to be renewed in early  December  2018.
About a month  before the insurance was due for renewal, (November  2018)  Masterquote 
contacted Ms L to check some of the details on her policy.  It then said that Ms L had been 
sold the wrong insurance the year before, and that she should  transfer  her insurance to 
another insurer. As it happened that was business A (her old insurer).
Masterquote said Ms L was owed a refund of £10.73 on her old policy, but that there was a 
£20 transfer fee to be paid  so she paid the balance left of £9.27. The new policy cost 
£284.15 for the year. 
Ms L wanted to continue  paying for her insurance in instalments, which  meant she had to 
sign a credit agreement.  The credit  agreement came with some additional costs  a further 
£42.74. That brought  the total to £326.98. Business  A treated  Ms L as a new customer, so 
she had to pay 20% of the cost of the insurance (plus any fees)  initially,  followed by 11 
monthly instalments.  The deposit of £56.83 was collected in November and the regular 
monthly payments  started in December.  
Ms L complained that she didnt understand why she had to pay such a large amount for the 
new policy in the run up to Christmas  already a time when  she struggled financially. Nor 
did she understand why Masterquote had sold her the wrong policy when shed explained  
she owned the freehold for two leasehold properties  several times over the years.
Ms L says she had no chance  to shop around for another policy  as she needed the new 
cover straight away. And shes worried she wasnt insured  when she thought  she was. 
Finally Ms L complained  about some  incorrect information  that had been sent to her.
Masterquote said it couldnt explain why its records about Ms Ls freehold were wrong  and 
as shed initially bought the cover many years  ago it no longer had the call recordings,  so it 
couldnt check what had happened.  It said when it discovered its mistake  it had to re-arrange 
Ms Ls insurance because  business B simply  didnt provide the sort of cover  Ms L needed. It 
refunded the £20 transfer fee it had charged and sent Ms L £30 to make up for the 
inconvenience and upset it had caused.
Ms L didnt  think this was fair and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Masterquote had acted fairly. He said Masterquote  had 
acknowledged there were  problems with the insurance and the right thing  for it to do was to 
get Ms L to transfer her cover as soon as possible.  He noted that Ms L had told Masterquote 
Ref: DRN28537102that shed made claims under the policy  so she hadnt lost out because  she had the wrong 
cover. He said he thought Masterquote explained why Ms L needed  to change policies and 
the new costs reasonably  in phone calls between the two parties.  Finally  he said he 
understood Ms L had been  inconvenienced by the deposit shed had to pay in November 
2018, but this did form part of the overall cost of the policy, and she hadnt been 
overcharged.
He thought refunding the transfer fee and the compensation was a fair way for Masterquote 
to put things right.
Ms L remained unhappy. She pointed out that Masterquote hadnt automatically  renewed her 
policy even if it said it normally did that  shed have noticed deposits leaving her bank 
account if that had been  the case.  And she pointed  out that the claims shed referred to were  
several years ago, when  she was correctly insured. 
Our investigator didnt  think the second of Ms Ls points affected his view  as no claim had 
been made, Ms L hadnt lost out. He checked with Masterquote what payments it had 
collected and said he thought these  were correct.
Ms L remains unhappy about the complaint so Ive been asked  to decide it. This will be our 
final input on this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms L has three main  parts to her complaint, and Ill deal with them separately.
changing the insurance
Masterquote discovered,  when  going through its normal renewal processes, that Ms L had 
been sold the wrong policy in December 2017.  It doesnt know exactly  why that happened, 
but the correct  way to deal with this is to make sure Ms L has the right cover. Business B 
doesnt provide  the cover  Ms L needs, so Masterquote couldnt simply ask it to change the 
policy  it had to find a new insurer.
It did that, and coincidentally this was an insurer that had provided  cover for Ms L before. 
Ms L was close to the end of her years cover with business B  so Masterquote arranged to 
close that policy and refund  Ms L any overpaid  premiums. It then gave Ms L information 
about the new cover with business A. That included the costs,  which  were  higher. I cant say 
these costs were unfairly higher, as the type of cover had changed. But Masterquote said it 
was the best price  available  at the time,  and I have  no reason to doubt that.
I think Masterquote  did the right thing when it changed Ms Ls cover. 
Masterquote initially charged Ms L for transferring the cover.  But its since refunded this cost,  
which is fair, given it wasnt Ms L who was asking for the change. Masterquote  also 
acknowledged that it sent Ms L the wrong  policy documents and the wrong email during the 
transfer. By way of compensation  its given Ms L £30. That seems fair to me.
the deposit and instalments
Ref: DRN28537103Ms L is in the habit  of paying for her insurance  by monthly instalments. That means shes 
buying the insurance on credit  and paying  additional costs  for this. That increases the 
overall cost of the policy to £326.89. Thats made up of £284.15 for the insurance and 
£42.74 for the credit.
Because Ms L was setting up a new credit  agreement to buy the insurance from business A, 
she was treated as a new customer. So she was asked to pay 20% (£56.83) of the total cost 
straightaway and the rest of the balance over the following 11 months. The overall cost of 
£326.89 wasnt changed by this, and deposits are commonly collected in these 
circumstances, so I cant say this was unfair for Ms L. I do accept the timing of the deposit  
payment may have  been inconvenient in the run up to Christmas. 
Ms L said shed not had to pay deposits  before  shed have noticed a larger amount as she 
checks her bank statements carefully.  It might be that in other years, no deposit was 
required  thats  particularly likely if shed been  with the same  insurer over more than one 
year. But, given I think the way payments were collected was fair, this doesnt affect my 
decision.
possible losses
Ms L thinks I should look at what might  have happened if she had made a claim,  as she 
believes she wouldnt have been successful.  I can only look at things  that have actually 
happened, which is what Ive done in this decision. I cant  speculate on what  might have 
happened in a hypothetical set of circumstances.
Theres no dispute that Ms L had the wrong  insurance for most of 2018.  But she hasnt told 
us she knew that was the case  nor can I see she contacted Masterquote  during this period 
to say she had any concerns.  So its unlikely  Ms L worried about this before Masterquote  
contacted her in November 2018   and she had the right cover  almost immediately after 
that. Taking  everything  into account,  I think the actions  Masterquote  took were fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2853710