K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mrs W was given incorrect information  by MBNA Limited. They  
also complain that Mrs W was passed between several departments and about her 
treatment whilst making a Subject Access Request (SAR).
background
Mrs W has a credit  card account with MBNA. Shes  the main card-holder  and her husband is 
an additional  card-holder.
Mrs W received  new credit cards for herself  and her husband. She asked if her husband 
could access and manage her account. She was told this wasnt  possible as MBNA had 
made changes to limit additional card-holder  permissions. Mrs W was unhappy with this so 
she was passed  to another call-handler to raise  a complaint.
During this call she was told that additional card holder limitations  had been introduced due 
to Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations. Mrs W questioned this and was unhappy  
that the call-handler was unable to provide details of the regulation that had introduced the 
changes. She asked  for her complaint  to be escalated but was told no other solution could 
be offered.
She felt barriers were  put in the way of how she wished to manage her account. She says 
she was passed  to several departments  who couldnt help. Mrs W also rang to make  a 
Subject Access  Request  (SAR). However,  this call disconnected. So she had to call back  
and when she did so she was told she could only make a SAR by letter and not over the 
phone.
MBNA issued its final response letter. In summary:-
it agreed Mrs W was incorrectly  told that additional card holder permissions had been 
limited due to FCA requirements. Instead MBNA had taken a business  decision not 
to allow  additional  account holders to manage  accounts or access information online 
or by phone.  MBNA apologised  and said it had provided feedback  to the call handler.
it apologised that Mrs W had been passed  between departments.  But it explained 
that not every query a customer has can be dealt with by just one associate. So it 
has a number of departments to deal with different issues.
it accepts that Mrs Ws call disconnected and it was unable  to see why. It explained 
that the call handler could  only receive but not make calls so this is why the agent 
couldnt call Mrs W back after the line disconnected. It said it would raise feedback 
on this.
it accepts that Mrs W should have been  told that she complete a SAR over the 
phone or by an online form on its website. It said it would  provide feedback to the 
call-handler to avoid  future  confusion.
To put matters right MBNA  credited Mrs Ws account with £50.
Mrs W was unhappy with MBNAs response so she brought  her complaint to this service. 
She was also concerned  that the compensation paid by MBNA was by way of a credit to her 
credit card account rather than as a direct payment to her.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld.  He noted that 
MBNA can make changes to the terms and conditions of the account  and this meant it was 
Ref: DRN29024392able to take a commercial  decision  about the facilities its prepared  to provide to additional  
card holders.
Although MBNA had given incorrect information  about why additional card holders 
permissions were changed he didnt think this had any significant impact. And he didnt think  
Mrs Ws call had been disconnected  deliberately.  When Mrs W rang back  she was 
incorrectly told that she must request a SAR by letter. The investigator acknowledged that 
this would have  been frustrating for Mrs W as this was her fourth call but he could see her 
SAR was dealt  with over the phone and was completed by MBNA  in due course.
The investigator thought the £50 compensation paid by MBNA was reasonable in the 
circumstances. And he also explained  that MBNA  could pay the compensation directly  to her 
rather than crediting her MBNA account, if shed prefer.
Mrs W disagrees with the investigators view and thinks  she should receive more 
compensation. She also says the final response letter issued  by MBNA is incorrect  as it 
doesnt say whether or not her complaint was upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  here are not in dispute.  MBNA accepts it gave Mrs W incorrect information. And I 
can see that its apologised, provided feedback  to its call-handlers and credited  Mrs Ws 
account with £50. To decide whether this is a fair and reasonable resolution to this complaint 
I need to look at the impact the mistake  has had on Mr and Mrs W.
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws credit card account allow MBNA to 
make changes. And MBNA was entitled  to make  a business decision to limit additional card 
holders permissions and access rights.
If Mrs W had been  given  the correct information   that the changes  were introduced due to a 
business decision taken  by MBNA  - this wouldnt have improved the position. This is 
because, as an additional card holder, Mr W would still not have been  able to access or 
manage Mrs Ws credit card account.  So I cant say Mr and Mrs W have  lost out due to 
being given incorrect  information about why additional card holder rights had been limited.
Ive listened to the call Mrs W made  when  she asked to make  a SAR.  I heard the line 
disconnect but Ive seen nothing to suggest  this was done deliberately by MBNA.  I think its 
unfortunate that the call handler wasnt able to call Mrs W back  when the line disconnected  
because he couldnt  make outbound calls. So I can see why Mrs W was frustrated  that she 
had to call MBNA again. But although this is frustrating  and particularly so in light of the 
incorrect information shed previously been given  I cant say the impact  is substantial enough 
to require further compensation.
When she called back after being  disconnected  she was incorrectly told she could only make  
a SAR by letter. Again I can understand why she was frustrated in light of her previous 
dealings with MBNA  and it was her fourth call but I cant say it had any significant impact 
requiring me to direct  MBNA to pay further  compensation. This is because Im satisfied that 
later in the call MBNA took details of her request over the phone  and subsequently provided 
the information.
Ref: DRN29024393Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs W but I consider £50 compensation to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances for the reasons Ive explained above.
Im aware that Mrs W has raised  a new point that MBNAs final response letter isnt correct 
as it doesnt say whether her complaint is upheld or not. Unfortunately as this is a new point 
Im unable to consider  it. Mrs W must raise any concerns she has with MBNA  first to give it 
the opportunity  to respond.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not intending to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2902439