K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a secured  loan.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 1990. Mr and Mrs D paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their secured 
loan repayments  in case of an accident, illness, or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This policy was sold almost three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since 
closed. So its understandable that neither side have the original documents  from the time. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ds data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs D dont remember buying PPI, and thats 
also understandable given just how long ago this sale was, and since buying insurance is 
not often memorable. Ive thought carefully  about  whats most likely  to have happened based 
on the limited information that is still available after all this time.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr and Mrs D into having 
PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats  what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with Halifaxs sales process  from the time. And this sale was too long ago for 
me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents  from the time now.  So 
I dont seem to have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs D. 
I think its more likely that it followed a relatively standard  sales  process, gave  them a choice, 
and that they chose  PPI at the time  though  I can understand  if they no longer recall doing 
so after so many years.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs D, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs D, 
Ive assumed that it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy  was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it 
looks like Mr D was the main earner, was eligible for the cover, and wasnt affected by any of 
its main exclusions or limitations.  While Mr D had some work benefits  and savings,  the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of those  and covered him for at least  twice  as long. Its worth 
bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs D had fallen behind on their secured loan, they couldve 
lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been  useful  for them  in protecting  their home and 
providing some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN20951782Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs D about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went  
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much  it would pay out in a claim, 
costing just £3.44 a month.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly basis,  so 
Mr and Mrs D could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall,  I dont think that better 
information was likely  to have put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs D mentioned that they are now having doubts about  whether they took 
out the loan in the first place. This case is only about  the sale of the payment protection 
insurance, and not the loan itself. So a complaint about the sale of the loan itself would need 
to be a separate complaint, made to Halifax first, and then brought  to our service if needed.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about  the sale of 
this particular PPI policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN2095178