K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy that the premium for his car insurance policy with Admiral  Insurance 
Company Limited  increased at renewal last year.
background
Mr Vs car insurance policy started  in 2017. In August 2018  his car was scratched by another  
driver while parked  and unattended. The following  month,  a day before the policy was due to 
renew, Mr V contacted  Admiral to let it know this had happened (as he was required to do 
under the terms  of his policy), but he didnt make a claim.
Admiral recalculated the renewal premium after logging the incident and wrote to tell Mr V 
that the policy would cost a little over £700  more than the original  quote  itd sent him. Mr V 
wasnt happy about this, so called  Admiral a few days later and found  out it had made a 
mistake when logging  the details of the incident.
Admiral corrected its mistake and offered Mr V £100  compensation in recognition of the 
inconvenience the error had caused.  But, the renewal  premium didnt decrease. Mr V 
remained unhappy and asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. They thought Admiral has correctly calculated 
the renewal premium in line with its pricing policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it and 
Ill explain  why.
I cant tell Admiral what price it should  charge Mr V for his car insurance. Thats for it to 
decide, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of Mr V needing to make a claim and its 
wider commercial requirements. But, what this service can do, when a consumer complains 
about the price  he or she has been  charged, is look at whether the insurer  has treated  them  
fairly. 
Theres been some confusion in this case because, as Ive already said,  the agent  Mr V 
spoke to when  he reported the incident recorded the events incorrectly.  But, Admiral has 
shown me the increased renewal premium has now been calculated using the correct 
information. 
The way in which an insurer prices  its policies depends on how its underwriters assess the 
risk of insuring individuals and assets. This information is commercially sensitive  putting it 
in the public domain could give a commercial  edge  to the insurers competitors. So insurers  
wont usually share with their customers exactly how theyve worked out a premium. And I 
dont expect Admiral to make that information available to Mr V in this particular case.
Having said that, Admiral has told Mr V that its claims experiences shows  policyholders with 
non-fault incident are more like to go on to make  a fault claim in the future. Mr V told 
Admiral, and it accepted,  that the incident  in question wasnt his fault and he didnt make  a 
claim, so Admiral didnt  have to pay out any money.  But that doesnt mean Admiral shouldnt  
have increased  his policy in the way it did. Having considered everything thats  been  said 
Ref: DRN20225622and provided, Im satisfied  Mr V has been  treated fairly and in line with the way Admiral 
would have treated  any other customer with similar circumstances.
While I understand Mr Vs disappointment that he had to pay a higher premium,  if he was 
unhappy with the increase he could have cancelled  the policy and shopped around to see if 
he could get cheaper cover with another insurer. 
In light of the above, it wouldnt  be fair for me to tell Admiral to refund any of Mr Vs premium. 
And I think the £100 it offered fairly  recognises  any distress  Mr V suffered when he found out 
Admiral had made a mistake in the recording  of the incident and any inconvenience he 
suffered having  to call to sort things out. So I make no further award.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2022562