K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection policy 
(PPI) in 1994  when she took out a mortgage.
Ms E has told us that she was told by BoS at the time that it was compulsory and she was 
told she had to take it out to secure her mortgage.
background
Ms E took out a PPI policy  in 1994  which covered her if she was off work because of an 
accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
It would have cost her £20.70 per month and would have paid the monthly benefit of £300 if 
she made a successful claim for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Ms E disagreed  with this view 
and asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I appreciate Ms E will be disappointed but I will 
explain why Ive reached this decision below.
The heart of Ms Es complaint is that she was told she had to have  the PPI to secure her 
mortgage.
This is the first thing Ive considered. As so much time has passed since the sale not all the 
information is available.  This is understandable and not unusual  as businesses  arent  
required to keep records indefinitely. But where  the information  is incomplete  I will make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is whats  more likely  thinking about what 
both parties have told us, the evidence we do have and taking into account what we know  
about this type of sale at the time.
I havent seen  the mortgage application or the PPI application form so I cant say exactly  
what Ms E was told. It could be that the representative told Ms E it would be a good idea to 
take out the PPI but thats not the same thing  as being told that she had to have it in order to 
secure her mortgage. I certainly dont doubt that Ms E now honestly  and genuinely  feels  she 
was mis-sold PPI. But to think  that the representative told Ms E it was compulsory Id have to 
think she was told something which I dont think was likely  the case. And taking into account 
what we know about how BoS sold these types of policies at that time I think  on balance it 
was more likely that Ms E was given a choice  about  buying the PPI and could have  refused  
it if she didnt want it.
BoS says that it will look at this sale as if was recommended. This puts a greater 
responsibility on BoS for how it sold the PPI and means it had to make sure it was suitable 
Ref: DRN22665322for Ms Es circumstances. It also had to give Ms E enough clear information  so Ms E could 
decide for herself whether  or not she wanted the PPI.
Ive thought about whether the PPI was suitable for her circumstances.  To help me decide 
whether the PPI was suitable, Ive looked  at what Ive been told about  Ms Es personal 
circumstances at the time of the sale. Ive also thought about  the terms and conditions  of the 
policy. 
Ms E has told us she had a good  job. She has said she would have been paid sick pay for a 
full six months followed  by half sick pay for a further six months.  This policy  though paid out 
for up to 12 months so it would have paid out in addition to and for potentially  longer than her 
full sick pay would have  lasted. So I dont think it was unsuitable for her.
Ms E has also explained about her savings which she had and which werent  set aside for 
anything else. I accept  that Ms E had savings but I have also taken into account that this PPI 
policy covered Ms Es mortgage repayments. And the consequences of being unable  to 
repay her mortgage were  serious and could have resulted in losing her home.  I also 
acknowledge and accept  that Ms E had a good job and have noted  that she is of the view 
that she was unlikely to be made redundant. But circumstances  can change. Its also 
possible that Ms E might have needed to take time off work  because of accident  or sickness  
and this policy would have paid her mortgage repayments if she fell into difficulty and 
couldnt work. 
Ive also kept in mind  what Ms E has told us about  her grandparents stepping in to help. I 
appreciate they would have wanted  to help;  theres  no guarantee that this type of help would 
have been available for such  a long time and as and when Ms E needed it if things  went 
wrong.
Taking this into account I consider the policy was on balance suitable  for her.
Ms E was eligible for the cover and as she was working and has told us she was in good 
health when she bought  the PPI, she wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
limitations and exclusions  of the policy which might  have made it harder for her to make  a 
successful claim.
And theres  nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable for her and I consider it 
offered a reasonable benefit  for the cost.
Bos also had to give Ms E enough  clear information about the policy so she could decide 
whether or not she wanted it. As Ive explained, I cant say what Ms E was told by the 
representative when  she bought the PPI. So its possible  that BoS didnt give her all the 
information as clearly as it should  have done. But thats not enough for me to uphold  this 
complaint. I next need to think if Ms E had been given better or clearer information  whether 
she would  have done something differently and not bought the PPI. But I think  its more  likely 
she chose the cover and for much the same reasons as Ive set out as to why I consider the 
policy was suitable  for her, I dont think better information would have put her off buying  the 
policy.
Overall, I dont  think Ms E lost out because  of anything Bank of Scotland  plc did wrong and I 
dont uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint  Ms E.
Ref: DRN22665323my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. So Im not asking Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put things right. Im sorry  to disappoint Ms E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2266532