K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Sainsburys  Bank Plc would not allow  her to withdraw money  from her 
account and did not act on her instructions.
background
Miss T logged on to her online banking  account at Sainsburys. She tried to change the sort 
code for accounts  at another business  she made payments to. She couldnt do this and 
contacted Sainsburys  on 15 December 2018 but was told she had not passed its security 
checks. She sent in statements for the payee accounts and expected to receive a new 
security code. She complained when she had not received this. She was able to close the 
account and receive  her money on 11 February  2019. Sainsburys offered to pay her £50 in 
compensation.
Our investigator did not think this was sufficient and recommended it pay her a total of £150. 
He said that Miss T had written to Sainsburys on 28 December 2018 saying that she wanted 
to close the account.  And shed already sent in hard copies of statements for the payee 
accounts at other businesses. He thought it should have acted on her written instructions 
even if her account had not originally have been set up to operate in this way. He said    
Miss T had been caused stress and inconvenience  given the amount of time it took to 
resolve this. 
Sainsburys did not agree.  It said that there  was no signature verification  set up on the 
account. So it could  not have verified the letter from Miss T. And it also could not have told 
her about  any other methods to make the transfer as it had not confirmed her identity. It did 
not think it had made  any mistake in its processes and it said that the compensation it had 
offered was sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN24289122Im going  to set out a timeline  below of what happened:
timeline
-15 December 2018 - Miss T tried to change  the sort code for accounts at another  
business linked to her Sainsburys accounts online so she could make payments to 
them. She could  not do this as the Sainsburys system could not verify the accounts 
are in her name. She calls but fails telephone  verification. Sainsburys says it will 
send her a telephone  verification code  and that she needs to send in copies of the 
statements at the other business so that the payees can be updated.
-21 December 2018 - Miss T calls again  as she had not received the code  and it 
had in error not been sent. She had already sent in the statements and later received 
a letter  dated  that day saying this. She expected that the payees  would be set up but 
when she tried to make payments they hadnt  been.
-24 December 2018 - Sainsburys issues a letter with the security code. It does not 
appear Miss T ever received this.
-28 December 2018 - Miss T writes  to complain that she has not had the code and 
says she wants the accounts closed and the balance paid to her by cheque.
-7 January 2019 - she receives an acknowledgement of her complaint.
-13 January 2019 - she emails to ask what  is happening, repeats her instruction  to 
close the accounts and says that a payment was made  by standing  order from one of 
the accounts she was trying  to link to her Sainsburys account  on 11 January 2019.
-14 January 2019 - she receives a holding  response giving her referral rights  to this 
service.
-20 January 2019 - Miss T refers  her complaint to this service.
-5 February 2019 - a final response  is issued  saying that another  code has been 
issued and that Miss T will need to phone up to access  her account.
-11 February 2019 - she is able to access her money and the accounts are closed.
my assessment
I am unclear whether  the telephone banking security needed to be reset  before Sainsburys 
would accept the change to the payees  to the account for online banking. Miss T did not 
think that would need to be the case. And the letter she received from Sainsburys dated  21 
December 2018  did not clarify this. So she expected one way of her accessing the money  
was by her sending the statements in and then going back  online.
The other way was for the telephone security to be reset. Sainsburys did not send a code 
out as it said it would after her call on 15 December 2018. Miss T called again  about this on 
21 December 2018. It sent a letter with the code on the next business  day. It says Miss T 
never told it she did not receive  this. But I think her letter of 28 December 2018 made that 
clear  and that it could  also be inferred from her further emails.  I say that because when the 
final response was issued the complaint handler decided another  code needed to be issued. 
Had Sainsburys acted on this matter  sooner  Miss T could have already by then have  
accessed her money.
For these reasons the issue about  the need  for signature verification is not to me the key 
one here.  Whether  I accept Sainsburys position  on that or not I think Miss T ought to have 
been able to access her money before she did  as I see it by 21 December 2018 at the 
latest. It remained clear to Sainsburys that she could  not do so. And she could not access 
her money until 11 February 2019. Miss T explained  that she had a particular need for the 
Ref: DRN24289123money. So I consider  that the compensation recommended  fairly  reflects  this and the 
distress and inconvenience that resulted for her. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay Miss T 
£150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2428912