K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  about the letters they got from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in 2018  about 
the Mortgage Reserve facility on their Mortgage Current  Account. Mr and Mrs Y want 
Barclays to accept that they have been  harassing  them and to insure it doesnt happen 
again.
background 
Mr and Mrs Y have  a mortgage with Barclays which  has a Mortgage Current  Account and an 
overdraft facility known  as a Mortgage Reserve. On 14 June 2018 Barclays  wrote  to Mr and 
Mrs Y with a letter which  had a heading  A reminder  about managing  and repaying your 
Mortgage Reserve Balance. Mr and Mrs Y contacted Barclays  to say that they were 
unhappy at getting this letter since it was just a few months since they had told Barclays in 
detail about their repayment plans.
On 13 July 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs Y a letter headed Changes we are making  to 
your Mortgage Reserve. In that letter  Barclays said it was reviewing Mortgage Reserve 
Limits regularly. It said that it had noticed  that their Mortgage Reserve borrowing  limit may 
be higher than the amount Mr and Mrs Y required based on how they used it. Barclays 
proposed reducing  the limit from £75,810 to £74,400  in September 2018. The letter  indicated  
that if Mr and Mrs Y wanted  to retain  the existing balance that they could contact Barclays  
about that. The letter also referred  to a rebalancing feature of the mortgage and how that 
worked and included a leaflet on rebalancing. 
On 23 July 2018 Barclays wrote to Mr and Mrs Y to say that after a phone  call on that date it 
had agreed not to reduce  the overdraft limit but to retain it at its previous level.
On 27 November 2018 Barclays again wrote  to Mr and Mrs Y. That  letter started by saying 
that in the past 12 months that the borrowing  on the Mortgage Current  Account Reserve has 
been more than the savings Mr and Mrs Y were offsetting. It then goes on to say that it 
wants to make sure that Mr and Mrs Y fully understand how the account works  and that they 
have a plan in place to pay off the mortgage  at the end of the term. It asks Mr and Mrs Y to 
contact Barclays at their convenience. 
Barclays answered that complaint by saying that if Mr and Mrs Y happy with how they were 
using the MCA  reserve and how they are being charged that they didnt  need  to do anything 
further. As a gesture  of goodwill it offered £50 compensation to Mr and Mrs Y. 
Barclays said that it operated two separate processes- an annual review of the Mortgage  
Current Account and what it termed a high utilisation review if the account is close  to its 
reserve limit and this led to the seperate contact. Our adjudicator  didnt recommend that this 
complaint should  be upheld  as he felt that Barclays hasnt done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs 
Y disagreed saying  in summary  that they wanted us to review her complaint about  receiving 
a series of emails about the same  thing over a number of months.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN22351572Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy with the amount of letters they got in 2018  about their offset 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ys complaint is set out in an email including a time-line of contact 
with Barclays dated 26 December 2018. Mr and Mrs Y refer to being harassed and badgered 
by Barclays and believe that there  is an agenda  to get them  to change to a repayment 
mortgage or to get them to pay the whole balance off before the mortgage matures.
I read the letter of 14 June which  strikes me as simply a letter of information  which  really 
restates how the mortgage reserve works.  It gives some help numbers to call but doesnt, I 
believe, require  contact. The other  information  it states is that Barclays was starting an 
annual review of the mortgage reserve limit.
The annual review  seems  to have occurred in July and as noted above this did require some 
engagement by Mr and Mrs Y to maintain the limit they had. 
Then in November Mr and Mrs Y got a third letter.  That again appears to be a letter  
containing information but looks to Mr and Mrs Y engaging with Barclays to discuss  their 
repayment strategy at their earlies  convenience.  I note that Barclays  in its Final Response  
letter confirms that Mr and Mrs Y have a repayment  plan in place to cover the interest and 
the contractual monthly payments 
  
Mr and Mrs Y appear to be financially aware and have a plan to deal with the repayment of 
their mortgage which  I believe is to occur next year. They dont feel that the lenders 
assistance is helpful to them. On the other hand  regulators want lenders to actively engage 
with their customers having this type of mortgage to insure that repayment plans are in 
place. This is to avoid  customers without  such plans being faced with the stark  choice  of 
losing their home when  their mortgages  mature. 
I have looked  at this correspondence in the light of this overall  regulatory  concern. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs Y are responsible with their finances  and are unhappy with what 
they believe is harassment. But my view is that the letters Barclays  sent were informative 
rather than badgering and although they may require a level of engagement by Mr and Mrs 
Y with Barclays I dont consider this to be excessive.  I note that as a gesture  of goodwill 
Barclays has offered £50 and if Mr and Mrs Y wish to accept that I will leave it to them to 
contact Barclays. But for the reasons set out above  I cant  fairly uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2235157