K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs M took out in 2001. It was added  to her 
account when  she applied for the card in store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because she had a medical condition which 
wouldnt have been covered. So she couldnt  have claimed on the policy for everything she 
expected to be able to.
I dont think Mrs M wouldve bought the policy  if FICL had given her enough  information 
about it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because  of what FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  not knowing if the 
medical condition  wouldve  made  any difference. But Mrs M has explained that the condition 
was diagnosed several years before the PPI was taken out and caused her to take time off 
work on a number of occasions. So I still think I should uphold the complaint, because  I think 
it wouldve  been important  for her that her medical  condition be covered. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN27794552B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance,  FICL should also pay simple  interest  
on the extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when 
Mrs M wouldve owed FICL something  on her credit  card. The interest rate should  be 
8% a year.  
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Financial Insurance Company 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 September 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2779455