K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he financed through a finance agreement with LeasePlan UK 
Limited (LeasePlan) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S took receipt of a new car in December 2015. He financed the deal through a conditional 
sale agreement with LeasePlan  and paid a deposit  of £10,000. The agreement  was to last 
for 48 months and there was a final payment  of £18,649.60 if Mr S wanted to take ownership  
of the car at the end of the term.
Mr S says he had frequent recalls on the vehicle which proved troublesome  as he regularly 
had to drop the car off and courtesy vehicles  werent  supplied.
In the summer  of 2017 he experienced several issues:
a NOx sensor needed replacing but the repair failed and the car had to be repaired 
again
there was a leak in the air conditioning and a valve  was replaced after an initial 
attempt to remedy the fault failed
he had problems  with the brakes  which wore down to metal to metal  contact. These  
were replaced on warranty
Mr S noticed  when he collected the car that there was a lot of brake  dust. He subsequently  
complained that brake dust contamination on the paintwork had led to rust spots forming.
In October  2017 Mr S contacted LeasePlan and asked to reject the vehicle. He said its 
cosmetic condition was unacceptable.
An independent inspection was arranged by a paint specialist. The specialist  said that brake  
dust had contaminated the paintwork, oxidised and caused rust spots that had not been 
removed properly by buffing. He said buffing  wasnt the best way to remove the rust spots  
and the repair attempt had been extremely amateur. He noted that the window trims and 
badges had buffing damage too and that meant  replacement parts would be required and he 
went on to note that a light cluster, that had been  subject to a previous repair under a recall, 
had moisture in it.
So Mr S asked LeasePlan to allow him to reject the car. They  accepted that he should  return  
the car with nothing  else to pay under a voluntary termination. LeasePlan waived the early 
termination costs.  He signed  the voluntary termination forms in May 2018 but he wasnt 
happy with LeasePlans  response and he therefore  referred his complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think LeasePlan had been  fair. She understood that Mr S had signed 
the early termination  letters but she noted  that hed first asked to reject the car in October  
2017 and she thought  LeasePlan  should  have allowed  him to do so. She said the evidence 
suggested the car had experienced problems that hadnt been  repaired properly and that 
damage caused by the dealership had resulted in unacceptable cosmetic damage.  She 
thought that LeasePlan  should therefore also return Mr Ss deposit and that they should  pay 
him £300 to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.  She noted  that Mr S had 
asked for the cost of the optional extras on the car to be returned to him as well. But she 
Ref: DRN22660592didnt think this would be fair as she noted  they formed  part of the overall price of the car and 
that Mr S had the benefit of them whilst he was in possession of the vehicle.
LeasePlan didnt agree  with the adjudicators view and they therefore  asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint LeasePlan so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then LeasePlan, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr S. This was a 
brand new car so I would  not expect  anything to be wrong with it.
I take account of the law when I consider this case but I also consider whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. 
Im persuaded that this car was not of satisfactory quality. I say that because  I think  theres 
evidence the repairs that have been  completed have  not been  successful and because  I 
think it would  be reasonable to take into account that during  the processing  of those repairs  
damage has occurred  which  I think its fair to say renders the car not of satisfactory quality. I 
dont think a reasonable person would  think  that was acceptable.
It appears that LeasePlan accept this position  but for clarity  I think theres evidence that car 
has not been of satisfactory quality because:
whilst  some issues might be expected after about 20,000 miles I dont think  it would 
be reasonable to suggest a brand new car should  have  brake faults; require a new 
NOx sensor, have a leak in the air conditioning  and a faulty headlight cluster.  I think 
that suggests this vehicle hasnt proven suitably durable and was therefore not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied
Ref: DRN22660593I dont think the brakes failed  because of wear and tear. There appears to have been  
metal to metal contact and the fact the warranty was utilised to pay for the repairs  
suggests there was a fault with them. I dont  think a reasonable person would expect 
brakes to fail so dramatically at only about 20,000  miles.
in those circumstances I think its most  likely a fault with the brakes had been 
developing at the point of supply. Legislation allows the business  one opportunity to 
repair a fault and whilst  the repair appears to have resolved the noisy brakes  it 
caused damage to the paintwork, trim and badges and this has been  identified by an 
independent expert.  I dont think  a reasonable person would think  the repair had 
therefore been successful and I think it would  be fair to allow  Mr S to reject  the car for 
this reason even  if he wasnt  allowed to reject  it because  it wasnt  suitably durable.
I understand that LeasePlan  offered a resolution  to this matter and allowed Mr S to 
voluntarily terminate his deal but I dont think they went far enough.  I can see Mr S was 
always asking to reject the car and I think,  given the evidence above, LeasePlan should 
have allowed him to do so. 
I think it would only be fair and reasonable to therefore allow Mr S to reject the car and in 
those circumstances  LeasePlan will need to return his deposit with interest.  Its clear  that 
these issues will have been  distressing for Mr S and in the circumstances I think it would be 
reasonable for LeasePlan to recognise  that and to pay him some  compensation. Id agree 
with the adjudicator that £300  would be fair.
I understand that Mr S would like to be reimbursed for the optional  extras  he put on the car 
but I dont think  that it would  be reasonable  to ask LeasePlan to do this. The optional extras 
formed part of the overall finance and Mr S had the benefit of those extras during the time 
the agreement  was in force.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell LeasePlan UK Limited  to:
return Mr Ss deposit and add 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
pay Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced.
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit  file in relation to 
these issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2266059