K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr T bought  the policy in 1993 at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not entirely clear how Mr T applied for his loan and PPI policy   Nationwide  
cant say, but Mr T remembers it was by post. And Ive not seen anything to contradict  this.
While the loan amount  is known,  Nationwide cant say how long it was repayable  over. But 
the policy cost £23.79  a month  and provided  a benefit of £137.99 a month.  The policy  didnt 
attract interest. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Nationwide isnt able to say whether the loan was secured or 
unsecured. If it was secured it offered to repay Mr Ts monthly  loan repayment for up to 24 
months in the event  of a successful disability  claim and 12 months  in the event of 
unemployment. And if it was unsecured it would pay out for up to 12 months for both 
disability and unemployment.
At the time,  Mr T was employed as a laboratory technician.  He has told us he was entitled to 
six months sick pay and some redundancy pay. He had life cover too  but he didnt have 
any other means of repaying his loan should he be unable to work. Mr T has said he had no 
health issues at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has said Mr T made a successful claim on the policy in 1995, which paid out a 
total of just over £1297.
Nationwide has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in February 2007.
Mr Ts representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ts representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ts representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr T about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN22714422The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr T and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue;
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr T disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ts complaint
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN22714423The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ts case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ts complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr T and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN22714424Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I said above that due to the passage of time Nationwide cant now say how Mr T took out his 
loan and PPI. It also hasnt got a copy of Mr Ts loan agreement  the account  has been 
closed for many years. Business dont have to keep records forever.
But it has provided two example  loan agreements (secured and unsecured) which it says is 
representative of what Mr T likely saw and signed when he took out his loan and PPI  
whether things were  done by post as Mr T says or if things took place in-branch instead for 
example. Looking at these, I can see both agreements set out the cost of the PPI separately 
and clearly from the loan amount and both describe  the cover as Optional Credit  Insurance.
Mr T would have had to sign the agreement too to accept the terms of the lending. So if Mr T 
didnt want PPI or it wasnt something  hed chosen during the application  process, I wouldve 
expected him to have queried  things  at the time and before  he signed to go ahead.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something very different happened when  Mr T took out his loan and PPI, I think  its more 
likely that Mr T knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  
pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr T hasnt said either way. Looking 
at what happened  when Nationwide sold Mr T the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided 
advice  Ive not seen  anything to show or suggest that Nationwide  considered Mr Ts 
individual needs and circumstances and offered an opinion on whether PPI was right for him 
or not.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr T. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr T to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information  
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr T was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if Mr T was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability.)
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr T would have  taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for. Im also satisfied that Mr T was told the cost of 
the PPI based  on the example loan agreement I think Mr T likely saw and signed  to take out 
the loan and PPI.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
T agreed to take out the policy. 
Ref: DRN22714425So I dont  think its likely  Nationwide gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Ts. Ive considered these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr T? To what extent did Mr T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr T says he would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr T had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr T thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN22714426The information Mr T was given about the cost was, more  likely than not made clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nationwide  made  clear exactly  what Mr T would get back in 
return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr Ts expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  his 
loan payments) were  significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr T thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following (based  on the nearest available policy  document 
which likely reflects the terms of Mr Ts policy):
The policy excluded claims relating to physical or mental defect or recurring  disease,  
which Mr T sought advice or treatment  for during the 12 months  before the start date 
of the policy  (subject to a time limit);  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
do his own job, or any gainful occupation  which his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr T pause for thought  and may well have  caused  him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been  caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr T didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mr T had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do his job or any 
gainful job which in the insurers view he might reasonably be qualified  for, it might have 
played into his thinking about  what he would do. And I accept it may have given him pause 
for thought  although given Mr Ts circumstances,  on balance, I still think he would have 
been interested in taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN22714427So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr T made  redundant,  or unable to work through accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr T would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr T would  not have bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr T 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr T in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr T compensation, as that would  put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ref: DRN22714428Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr T in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2271442