K821x#15complaint
Ms E has complained about  short-term  loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Ms E says she couldnt afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out.
background
QuickQuid agreed four short-term loans for Ms E between  October 2016 and April 2017.  The 
loans were repayable  over between one and three months, and Ms E topped  up both her 
second and third loans on more than one occasion.  This is where she took out further 
borrowing under  the same  agreement,  before paying back the initial amount borrowed.
loan no. applicationprincipal  amount 
(£)no. of repayments  
duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 08/10/2016 50 1 65
2 22/10/2016 50 2 62
2a 02/11/2016 200 2 310
2b 04/11/2016 50 2 373
2c 07/11/2016 50 2 434
3 30/11/2016 50 3 63
3a 07/12/2016 75 3 158
3b 11/12/2016 25 3 190
4 25/04/2017 150 3 185
One of our adjudicators has looked into Ms Es complaint  already  and recommended the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1, 2 and the 
first top up on loan 2 (2a) were proportionate.  But thought that the checks carried out from 
the second top-up on loan 2 (2b) onwards  werent. And he thought that had QuickQuid 
carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve seen that loan 3, and the two top-ups on loan 3 
(3a and 3b), wouldve  been unaffordable for Ms E, and would not have agreed to them.
Ms E raised no objections  to the initial  view.  QuickQuid  responded further, disagreeing with 
the assessment.  So the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for Ms Es application  for her second top up on loan 2 (2b) onwards. 
And thought  that had it done so, it wouldve likely  understood that loan 3, and the two 
top-ups  on this loan (3a and 3b) would not have been sustainably  affordable  for her. These 
findings were set out in some detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out appropriate and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Ms Es income and expenses  before funding  all these loans. Its said it 
started implementing changes to affordability assessments in June  2014  and all the changes  
were completed by 28 February 2015.
Ref: DRN23441282It said that starting 1 March 2015, before Ms E borrowed her first loan, it had implemented 
an affordability review that was consistent  with the FCA (Financial  Conduct  Authority)  
Handbook and was in place at the time it received authorisation  by the FCA. And that its 
assessment was conducted properly and individually  for each of these applications.
QuickQuid raised this argument, in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  And I can see that the adjudicator  addressed these points in his 
opinion. 
He said: I note what you've said about the loans Ms E borrowed from 2015 onwards, 
however our job is to look not only into the rules  and regulations  set by the regulator at the 
time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice and all the available evidence and
arguments to help us decide whether we think what the business  has done is right or not.
In this case I don't think you were  right to provide Ms E with some of the loans she
borrowed from 2015 onwards.
I fully agree with this point. This service has responded to QuickQuid on this generic 
argument directly and through earlier final decisions.  So Im not going  to expand on this point 
any further here, though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my 
decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Ms Es complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
The FCA was the regulator at the time Ms E borrowed the loans in question. Bearing in mind 
the rules and guidance set out in its Principles for Business  (PRIN) and its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), I would expect  a lenders affordability assessment to vary with 
circumstance. (I am not quoting the specific regulations here because,  as before, I would 
expect QuickQuid to be conversant with these through previous ombudsman decisions,  
particularly recent decisions, which set these  out in detail.)  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance by carrying out more  detailed checks
Ref: DRN23441283-the higher the loan amount,
-the lower the consumers income;  or
-the longer  the lending relationship
Looking at the specifics of Ms Es complaint, as loans 1, 2 and 4 (including the top-ups on 
these loans) no longer  appear to be in dispute, my decision  will focus  on the remaining loan, 
loan 3, and the top-ups on this loan.
At the time Ms E took out her third loan, shed been  borrowing from QuickQuid for around  six 
months. And loans  1 and 2 were  taken out in quick  succession, with Ms E topping-up her 
second loan on three occasions, within around  three weeks  from the original advance. 
Given the number  of times Ms E had borrowed from QuickQuid at this point, I think that in 
addition to asking  about her monthly income,  regular monthly  financial commitments  and 
regular household expenditure, I think QuickQuid shouldve also looked  specifically into 
whether she had any outstanding short-term credit owing at this time,  before agreeing  to any 
further applications. 
From the submissions QuickQuid provided  our service, its included  a monthly estimated 
disposable income figure (EDI), which it says it used, to assess the affordability  of Ms Es 
applications. I dont  know exactly  how this was calculated but I understand it incorporated 
information about monthly credit commitments from Ms Es credit file checks.
But QuickQuid hasnt  provided me a copy of the credit check  it said it ran, so I cant see what 
allowances its made from what it found on the credit check. So Im therefore unable to 
determine whether  this included any outstanding  short-term lending,  and therefore  unable to 
conclude that QuickQuid carried out proportionate  checks. So Ive looked at the evidence  
Ms Es provided, to work out what I think proportionate checks wouldve shown QuickQuid at 
the time.  
Having done so, I can see that when  Ms E applied for loan 3, she had eight other outstanding 
short-term loans with repayments due the following month totalling  around £816. 
So had QuickQuid  carried out proportionate checks,  it wouldve  seen  that at the time Ms E 
applied for loan 3, that her total monthly  short-term  credit commitments of £816, when added 
to the monthly  living costs  QuickQuid had recorded of £375, wouldve meant her total 
monthly outgoings were  around £1,192.
And given  that QuickQuid  had recorded  Ms Es monthly income as £1,200 when she appied  
for loan 3, had it carried out proportionate  checks,  it wouldve seen  that her total monthly 
outgoings were  already  almost equal to her monthly income, and that she had no disposable 
income available to meet any further  repayments  to creditors  at this time. So as a 
responsible lender, I think it would not have  agreed to this application  having  known this. 
The two-top ups Ms E took out on loan 3, were taken out within  two weeks of the initial 
application, and her financial position  at this time remained unchanged. So for the same  
reasons I think QuickQuid should  not have approved Ms Es application for loan 3, I think  it 
shouldve also not approved the top-ups on this loan. 
Ref: DRN23441284what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid shouldnt have agreed to loan 3, or the 
top-ups on this loan.  So it needs  to refund all of the interest and charges Ms E paid towards 
these.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed  in November 2016, including 
all the top-ups  on this loan
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Ms Es credit file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Ms E a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
QuickQuids told us Ms E has not repaid the full balance  owing on loan 4. So QuickQuid may 
deduct any outstanding amount owing on this loan from the compensation thats due to her. 
If QuickQuid no longer owns this debt,  it needs  to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Ms E. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any balance outstanding,  there  is still a sum owing, 
a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should  be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Ms Es complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Brad Mcilquham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2344128