K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that Coutts & Company mis-sold  a mortgage to her as it was not suitable 
for her needs.
background
Miss T is unhappy that a mortgage Coutts  provided  to her was split into two parts  a capital 
repayment element  and an interest  only element. She says that she did not request the 
interest only element  and did not have a means  to repay  this. Miss T says she could have 
saved interest if she had a full repayment mortgage.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-Hed looked at a fact find document from the meeting between Miss T and Coutts  on 
6 June 2014, and a suitability letter and mortgage offer sent to Miss T on 15 July 2014.
-Miss Ts needs were  recorded as being to have a mortgage to be repaid within 10 years 
in line with a planned  retirement date. But to make repayments  at a level that would be in 
line with a 20 year term. 
-The recommendation was for a part repayment  and part interest  only mortgage. Both 
had a 10 year term. A source of payment of the interest only part was identified from a 
planned sale of her business  and undrawn  profits. A five year fixed  term interest product 
was recommended in line with her stated needs.
-This approach to the mortgage was confirmed in a later review  in November 2015. At 
that time Miss T stated she was comfortable  with the repayments at the level them  set 
which were within her budget. And that the term still tied into her retirement plans.
-Miss T signed a key facts illustration sent to her on 27 June 2014 and returned  this on 
5 July 2014. The reason  for the recommendation was clearly set out in the suitability 
letter and she signed the mortgage offer on 1 August 2014. He thought the information 
was clear.
Miss T said she did not agree. At the time the mortgage was taken there were changes  
made to mortgage  regulations and she did not think that the staff at Coutts she dealt  with 
understood them. She had only been given an offer at the last moment  when she was due to 
exchange contracts on the property. A broker she later dealt with about  her mortgage had a 
more consultative approach and discussed  options. She has now refinanced  to a better deal 
with another mortgage lender. She could have  afforded to make  higher repayments and 
saved over £16,000 of interest. And she wasted time when she went  back to Coutts and was 
told nothing could be done about the mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Coutts additionally provided me with a letter  it sent to Miss T on 14 January 2016 following 
the further discussions with her about  the mortgage.  And specifically following an additional  
fact find carried out with her at a meeting of 10 November 2015.  It accepted  in that letter that 
it had omitted to give her some important information about  her mortgage in 2014.  But it 
considered that its further discussions with her had reconfirmed that the existing mortgage 
was suitable. 
Ref: DRN23407562Miss T was then said to be happy  with the current level of repayments and that the fixed 
interest rate product  remained  appropriate. The risks of an interest only mortgage were 
discussed. It was understood that the ultimate repayment strategy for the interest  only 
element would be the sale of another property abroad.
Miss T then complained to Coutts in March 2018. That was when she had transferred  her 
mortgage to a different business  and she said that as a result she then had a product that is 
totally suited to my needs, repayment vs interest only,  over the time span  I requested and at 
far more preferable rates.
my assessment
I can only fairly look at the position when Miss T applied for a mortgage with Coutts and what  
was available  then.  Im also satisfied that Coutts  made clear to Miss T that it was only going 
to be offering its own products to her.  
It had documented  her needs and collected  detailed information about  her financial position. 
The documents it sent to her made clear the terms of the mortgage  it offered. And in 
particular the suitability letter said that at one point Miss T had requested a repayment 
mortgage over 20 years.  But that she had also told Coutts that she intended to retire  after 11 
years. And in the fact find it was documented that she had plans to sell her business  within  
three to five years. 
This meant that Coutts recommended a mortgage  term of 10 years. And it split the mortgage 
into part repayment  and part interest  only. This kept the monthly  payments the same as if 
the mortgage had been on a repayment  basis over a 20 year term. That of course meant 
that the interest only element was repayable  in 10 years.
I appreciate the time that passed between Miss Ts meeting with Coutts about her mortgage  
on 6 June 2014 and the suitability letter and offer on 15 July 2014. But Miss T did not accept 
that offer until 1 August  2014 and then complete until October 2014. So I dont agree she did 
not have time to review this.
I know Miss T has since said she has missed out by not being able to repay the mortgage 
more quickly while the fixed  interest  rate product was in place. But I think that this was 
brought to her attention  in the suitability letter. That was the consequence of her taking that 
product and having the certainty  over the interest  rate she was said to have wanted. Had the 
whole mortgage  been on a repayment  basis over 10 years then the monthly payments would 
have been significantly  higher. Im not persuaded from the information about affordability that 
Coutts held that this was something  it should  instead have recommended  to her.
I know Miss T thinks  that Coutts did not follow the new mortgage regulations that came into 
force in 2014.  And I accept  as most  likely her account that the staff she dealt with expressed 
some uncertainty about this. I think thats  also borne out by the remediation it later did in 
2015. I understand why Miss T is concerned  about this. But I need to think  about the 
outcome for her and whether it ought to have been  any different. For the reasons Ive given 
and taking into account particularly what Miss T told Coutts in 2014 and then reconfirmed in 
2015 I dont think  it should have been.
In conclusion I know Miss T will be very disappointed when I say that I am not persuaded 
that the mortgage Coutts recommended was unsuitable for her.
Ref: DRN23407563my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2340756