K821x#15Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma (Varooma or the 
lender) was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for him on 23 February  2018.   
The loan was a log book loan, in other words it was granted  on the basis that Mr L provided 
Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr L didnt make his loan 
repayments Varooma  could potentially recoup its losses through  the sale of the vehicle. 
When Mr L fell behind  on his repayments  for the loan in early 2019 Varooma repossessed 
his car and sold it. It then put the proceeds  towards Mr Ls loan balance  and closed the 
account.
Mr L said that Varooma  didnt carry out sufficient or correct income and expenditure checks 
when he applied for his loan. He said that, had it done so, it would not have agreed credit for 
him as he couldnt  afford to repay it.  
Mr L also says that Varooma illegally  repossessed his vehicle. Varooma has countered  that 
Mr L illegally sold it prior to its repossession  and subsequent sale. I do not plan to make  any 
findings on the legalities of either sale as I feel this is best dealt with through  the courts. My 
decision deals with the irresponsible lending aspect and what followed from that. 
Background
I set out the circumstances  leading to this complaint and my initial  conclusions  in a 
provisional decision to both parties in January1. I have included extracts from that provisional  
decision at the end of this document  it forms part of my final decision and so I wont repeat 
its content here. 
I have had no response from Varooma to the provisional decision though it has provided 
information and argument prior to that. Mr L has responded to my provisional  decision and I 
will address  his points  below.
In summary,  Varooma  now agrees that it should not have given Mr L the loan, but both 
parties disagree about what  should be done to put things right.  
This is my final decision on the matter.  If Mr L accepts it, it will be binding  on the parties.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time.
My provisional findings were that 
Varooma was irresponsible to have agreed  a loan for Mr L; and
Mr L suffered  a financial loss because Varooma repossessed the car, sold it and kept 
the proceeds; and
holding  Varooma wholly  responsible  for Mr Ls loss wouldnt be right in the 
circumstances of this case because he had sold the car prior to Varoomas 
repossession; and
1 Following  on from a previous provisional decision issued in October  2019.
Ref: DRN23284592Varooma should pay an award  for the distress and inconvenience  it caused to Mr L 
prior to his sale of the car.
Mr L responded to my provisional decision with several points,  some  of which Ive already 
considered in making my provisional decision and so I wont repeat my reasoning here. A 
further two points Mr L would like me to consider are that 
Varooma should be liable for 8% simple interest  on any refund amount from the date 
of repossession  of the vehicle as that is the date the loan capital would be deemed to 
have been repaid; and 
an award  for distress and inconvenience somewhere between  £2,000  and £5,000 
would better reflect  the impact  of Varoomas actions  on him and his family.
It is true that where this Service finds that a loan should not have been  agreed and 
payments above  the capital value ought to be refunded, it usually  directs  a lender to add 8% 
simple interest per annum to the refund. This is to reflect the loss of those monies to the 
individual. I dont feel I can do so in this case because Mr L sold the vehicle before Varooma 
used the proceeds  from its sale of the same vehicle  to pay off the loan. Mr L then retained  
the funds from his sale. So, although Ive found  he is now, in effect, indebted  to the person  to 
whom he sold his vehicle,  to refund him more  than the amount he received (and now owes) 
from that sale would seems to me to mean he has profited from the matter. And this would 
not be in line with this Services approach to redress, which  is to return a complainant  to the 
position they would have  been in, had things  gone  as they should have.   
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, considering the circumstances of this case  
altogether, I felt an award of £1,000 was a fair reflection of the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to Mr L by Varoomas actions. Any distress and inconvenience he experienced in 
being deprived of his car is not something  I could reasonably ask Varooma to pay 
compensation for, given it was his action  in selling it that brought  about that loss. Having 
reconsidered this point I do not think an award beyond £1,000 would be fair or reasonable in 
this case. 
As Ive said before, I am mindful that both Varooma and Mr L feel very strongly about their 
respective positions.  I want to take this opportunity to reassure them that I have carefully 
considered what  both have said in relation to this matter throughout the course  of this case. 
And, having done so, I am not departing from my provisional findings as set out above.
I appreciate that my decision is likely  to be disappointing  for both parties  in some respect. In 
my view it is the fairest resolution to the matter, taking into account  the legal and regulatory 
framework in which this Services decision are made.
Ref: DRN23284593What Varooma  needs to do to put things right 
Varooma should:
Refund Mr L an amount of £2,176  to reflect  the financial loss it caused by 
repossessing and selling his car. This is made  up of:
o£3,300 (the amount  Varooma received for the car); plus
o£300 (the shortfall between Varoomas and Mr Ls sale proceeds);  minus
o£1,424 (the outstanding capital  balance of Mr Ls loan).
Pay Mr L an amount  of £1,000 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he incurred 
by its actions commented on in my provisional  decision; and
Remove any negative  information about this loan from Mr Ls credit  file.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ls complaint about Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma  and require it to 
put things right for him as Ive set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN23284594Extracts from my provisional decision 
Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma  (Varooma or the lender) was 
irresponsible to have  agreed a loan for him on 23 February 2018.  
The loan was a log book loan, in other words it was granted on the basis that Mr L provided 
Varooma with a bill of sale for his car. This meant that if Mr L didnt  make his loan repayments 
Varooma could potentially recoup its losses through the sale of the vehicle. When  Mr L fell behind  on 
his repayments for the loan in early 2019 Varooma  repossessed his car and sold it. It then put the 
proceeds towards Mr Ls loan balance  and closed  the account.
Mr L said that Varooma didnt carry out sufficient or correct income and expenditure checks  when he 
applied for his loan. He said that, had it done so, it would not have agreed credit for him as he couldnt  
afford to repay  it.  
Mr L also says that Varooma  illegally repossessed his vehicle. Varooma has countered that Mr L 
illegally sold it prior to its repossession and subsequent sale. I do not plan to make any findings  on the 
legalities of either sale as I feel this is best dealt with through the courts. My decision deals  with the 
irresponsible lending aspect and what followed from that. 
Background
Varooma agreed  a loan of £4,000 for Mr L which was to be repaid in monthly instalments  of £3112ove
r 36 months. The total amount Mr L needed to repay was £11,200 meaning he needed  to repay 
£7,200 in interest for the amount he borrowed.
I understand  that Mr L paid £2,576 in total towards his loan before falling behind on his payments.  
This left an amount of about £1,424 of capital  outstanding.  The final payment of £3,175.20 from the 
sale of the car by Varooma  brought  the total amount paid towards the loan to £5,751, £5,449 short  of 
the total amount  payable as per the loan agreement.
The below table sets out the payment history as provided  by Varooma:
Date Amount
17/05/2018 £658.58
29/05/2018 £311.11
16/07/2018 £340.00
14/08/2018 £340.00
11/09/2018 £340.00
06/11/2018 £311.11
07/01/2019 £35.00
29/01/2019 £120.00
27/02/2019 £120.00
15/07/2019 £3,175.20
TOTAL £5,751
2 All figures rounded to the nearest pound.
Ref: DRN23284595I provisionally3 found that
Varooma  was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for Mr L; 
Mr L suffered a loss because Varooma repossessed  and then sold his car; and
an additional award for any associated distress or inconvenience  caused to Mr L wouldnt be 
right in the circumstances  of this case  because Mr L had sold the car prior to Varoomas 
repossession. 
In order  to put things right I proposed that Varooma:
should pay Mr L an amount of £6,000 to reflect the loss of his vehicle; 
could deduct from this an amount of £1,424 to repay the outstanding capital balance due on 
his loan; and
should remove any negative  information about this loan from Mr Ls credit file.
Varooma accepted my provisional finding that it was irresponsible  to have lent to Mr L. However, both 
Varooma and Mr L disagreed with what Id suggested needed  to be done to put things right. Below 
are some of the things Varooma and Mr L said in response to my provisional decision.
Varooma said:
We do not feel as though Mr [L] has been  at a loss from this facility. Mr [L] sold the car prior 
to us taking  possession  of the vehicle of which  he received £3,600 from an innocent  party  
who we repossessed the vehicle from. In addition to the £1,400 that he had not repaid 
towards the initial capital. 
We also believe the valuation of the vehicle  is rather over inflated, the PAV valuation is that of 
a trader  such  as a main dealer. The customer also sold the car for £3,600 which  was from a 
private sale and was under no duress to do so at the time. The vehicle has multiple things 
wrong with it at the time of sale such as a new set of wheels needed,  AC broken,  gear box 
needed attention and other  cosmetic rectifications.
In summary, Mr L said that:
the valuation of £6,000 is actually too low and that a fair market price  is over £8,000 given the 
upgrades he made to the car when he bought it.
he is being pursued by the buyer for an amount  of £4,600 (£3,600 of which was for the car 
itself). He says that he felt he was under duress to sell the vehicle because  of financial 
hardship. Hes also said that there wasnt anything wrong with the vehicle  it was sold by 
Varooma at auction  and the advert clearly stated it was in perfect  working order with no 
known faults,  there were  also pictures on the advert which showed  the vehicle in immaculate 
condition.
he feels that, irrespective  of whether the vehicle  was sold to a third party, Varooma  have 
caused significant trouble and upset to him because of its errors. He wants  me to consider  a 
further award for trouble and upset.
My provisional findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As before, I have also taken into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good  industry  practice at the time.
I am mindful  that both Varooma and Mr L feel very strongly about their respective positions and I want  
to reassure them that I have  carefully considered what  both have said in response to my provisional  
decision. 
3 As set out in a provisional  decision to both parties in October 2019.
Ref: DRN23284596Having reconsidered everything again, I am still of the view that
Varooma  was irresponsible to have agreed a loan for Mr L; and
Mr L suffered a financial  loss because Varooma repossessed the car, sold it and kept the 
proceeds.
However, I now think that
holding  Varooma wholly responsible for Mr Ls loss wouldnt be right in the circumstances of 
this case because he had sold the car prior to Varoomas repossession; and
Varooma  should pay an award for the distress  and inconvenience it caused to Mr L prior to 
his sale of the car.
I appreciate that these  findings are likely to be disappointing to both parties  and I hope the following  
explanation makes  it clear how and why I have come to my conclusions. 
For completeness, even  though  Varooma now agrees it should not have lent to Mr L, I will address  all 
of the above four findings  in this document. 
Was Varooma  irresponsible to have agreed a loan for Mr L?
I have set out part of the relevant legal and regulatory framework that Varooma was subject to over 
the period it lent to Mr L in Appendix 1 at the end of this decision.  This includes some of the 
provisions of the Consumer Credit Act including  later amendments, and guidance  and rules provided 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) who was the regulator at the time.
Under this framework, Varooma was obliged to lend responsibly (CONC 5.2.1R). As clarified by the 
FCA, this meant  that it needed to make a reasonable assessment  as to whether or not a borrower 
could afford  to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  meant being able to meet  the repayments out of normal 
income while  meeting  normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet  these repayments.  
Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed or how the assessment was to 
be carried out in practice. The FCA said that the level of detail would  depend on the type of product,  
the amount of credit being  considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the 
borrowers financial situation, amongst  other factors  (CONC 5.2.4G). 
Its important to note that this means the assessment needed to be consumer-focussed.  It was not an 
assessment of the risk to the lender, but of the risk to the consumer. So even  in this case where Mr L 
had provided security  for his loan in the form of a bill of sale for his car, this doesnt absolve  Varooma  
of its obligation to assess whether in the first instance Mr L could meet his repayments without undue  
difficulty. 
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mr Ls case, I have considered the following  
questions:
Did Varooma complete reasonable  and proportionate checks when assessing  Mr Ls loan 
application to satisfy  itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If not, 
what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did it make a fair lending  decision? 
And did Varooma  act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
As the FCA set out in its guidance, assessing whether  or not a borrower could  meet their repayments 
sustainably required a check which was proportionate to the circumstances of the lending  (e.g. the 
type of product, loan amount etc.) and to the financial  circumstances of the consumer (CONC 
5.2.4G(2)). Therefore, a lenders assessment would  need to be flexible  what  was reasonable for 
one consumer  might  not be so for another, or indeed  what might be reasonable for a consumer for 
one loan application might not be so for the same consumer for a different  loan.  
Ref: DRN23284597In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance, the greater the potential  risk to the 
consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id expect  a 
lender to seek more  assurance by carrying carry out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required  to make payments for an extended period).
Let me start by explaining  my understanding  of what happened when  Mr L applied for his loan. 
Varooma gathered information from Mr L about his circumstances via an online application form and a 
telephone call. This was confirmed and an income and expenditure statement signed on a home  visit. 
Mr L said his monthly  income was £2,172 and his monthly expenditure  was £952.  He also said that he 
was a full time carer  for his 10 year old son who had a disability, that he rented his home  and had 
three dependents.  
Varooma checked Mr Ls identity via a credit reference agency and also learnt  that he had one active  
county court judgement. It provided  this Service with copies of the bank statements  Mr L provided at 
the time which covered the period 27 Dec 2017  to 8 Jan 2018. These were  for the joint bank account 
he shared with his wife.
Our adjudicator found  that Varooma should have enquired further into Mr Ls finances and taken 
steps to verify  his income and expenditure because it knew from its checks that he had an active  
county court judgement  and it could  see from his bank statements that over a two week period he had 
spent large  sums on what appeared to be gambling transactions. She concluded that, had it done so, 
it would have  seen that in addition  to historic defaults, Mr L had some recent defaults and had taken  
out a large  loan about  six months previously. She also commented that Varooma knew  that Mr L 
needed his car to bring his son to medical appointments. 
Varooma provided a call recording in which it discussed  Mr Ls personal circumstances, and his 
income and expenditure.  I have listened to this call and have transcribed some of the conversation 
below:
Varooma: Taking everything into account I could  probably do you £3,000  would that be 
enough to help?
Mr L: It would actually.
Varooma: Do you require it [the car] for things like doctors appointments for your son or do you 
have a second  car?
Mr L: No, we require the vehicle.
Varooma: I would be reluctant to proceed but we could probably work with it. I dont want to put 
you in a detrimental  situation where  you dont make payments and we have to 
repossess the vehicle. 
Mr L: How much  would the repayments be?
Varooma: £233.33 over 36 months.
Later in the call 
Varooma: I need to refer this to management because of the fact that you need it 
[the car] for everyday  use and appointments. Id be reluctant  but I can refer it to 
management for you and see if theyd be happy  to proceed. 
Varooma said in response that the credit check it carried out showed  one county court judgement and 
that:
Ref: DRN23284598I do not feel as though our decision would have changed if a full credit check was completed as we 
do not decline  loans  off the back of default being present, this is the type of sector we are in and we 
assess customers on their current  situation  not previous history in finances. This is why we accept 
judgements and defaults  as this could have meant a previous  hardship which has now been rectified.
It also said:
The online betting transactions were taken into consideration and due to the high balance of the 
account it was noted as using funds which  he had available and was in no stage  overdraft  from this 
activity
 In January there was a balance of over £45,000  which  would lead to the customer  gambling within  
their means  at the time. If the customer did not have  the available funds, then this would not have 
been completed.
Irrespective of what Varooma might have learnt through further checks,  I dont think it made a fair 
lending decision on the basis  of the information it knew at the time.  
Firstly, it proceeded  to grant a loan to Mr L secured on the basis of a vehicle which hed said he 
needed for daily use including  transport to medical  appointments for his disabled 10 year old son. As 
per the call notes, it is clear  that at the time that Mr Ls need  for his car was of concern to the 
Varooma representative.  I dont know how the decision was made to agree  to lend an even larger  
amount than was discussed  on that call. But a loan secured on his vehicle was not a suitable  product 
for Mr L at that time and it was unfair to have agreed to it.
Secondly, Mr Ls income was made up of a number  of benefits which included  Disability Living 
Allowance, Child Tax Credits, Child Benefit and a Carers Allowance. So it was highly unlikely  that all 
of this was actually paid to him. 
Furthermore, the government defines Disability Living Allowance (DLA) for children as help with the 
extra costs of looking after a child who is under  16 and has difficulties walking or needs much more  
looking after than a child of the same  age who does not have a disability. So I dont think the DLA 
benefit can be considered  to be money available  for general living  expenses as it was granted 
specifically to cover the additional livings costs of Mr Ls son. Varooma was aware  of the nature of the 
money coming into Mr Ls joint bank account and should not have considered it in its entirety as either 
his income or as income available  to meet its loan repayments.  
Varooma seems to have acted contrary to its own lending policy, as shown in the below 
correspondence between  Mr L and Varooma on the 7 January 2019 when he informed it of his 
difficulty in meeting his loan repayments:
Varooma: Could I please request that the attached income and expenditure form is filled out to 
the best of your ability  and also send  through 3 months of your most recent bank 
statements as this will allow us to access your situation.
Mr L: As discussed the income  shown on the I&E is in fact in my partners name and goes 
into our joint bank account. I do not currently have any income in my own name  
(which was also the case when  the agreement was taken out).
Varooma: Based  on not having  any income coming  through  in your name, I have to advise that 
we have  now deemed your loan with us unaffordable. You now have two options,  you 
can either choose to settle the loan in full or choose  to voluntary surrender your 
vehicle.
Mr L: As stated  in my email this was the same as when the initial application  was made  and 
approved (As shown on the bank statements provided  at point of application.)  How 
can Varooma now change  their mind?
Ref: DRN23284599All I am asking is that we can arrange a more  affordable payment until our financial  
situation improves. 
If Varooma are now saying the loan is unaffordable as the income isnt in my name, 
and this was the case when the loan was initially applied for, agreed, and paid out, 
then the loan would have been lent irresponsibly  in the first place.
Varooma: From what has been sent through I have rechecked the forms and statements and 
can see that you have £466 disposable income and can advise that we can continue 
with the loan at the payment  amount that was agreed when the loan was originally  
taken out for the amount of £311.11 per calendar month.
Finally, irrespective  of the amount of money coming into Mr Ls joint bank account relating to gambling 
transactions, Varooma  should  not have ignored the level of expenditure on these  transactions. It is 
clear from the limited number  of bank statements it had sight of that Mr Ls finances were  volatile to 
say the least  while  it is true that on the 2 January 2019 Mr Ls joint bank account showed a balance 
of over £45,000,  by the 5 January it was less than £50. And it was foreseeable  that he was unlikely to 
be able to meet his repayments in a sustainable way, in other words out of regular income.  And so 
Varooma was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to him. 
Varooma has accepted this conclusion. It commented that it considered  all of Mr Ls income  as 
available to repay his loan because it considered all his expenses in its affordability assessment. 
However, I doubt Varooma captured an exhaustive list of Mr Ls expenses. I can see from its 
expenses questionnaire that Mr L didnt give a figure for toiletries, for example, or indeed  any child-
specific costs, apart from clothing and school dinners, bearing in mind  hed said he had three 
dependents. In any event, my conclusion stands and Varooma  has accepted it.
Ordinarily, I would ask Varooma to put Mr L back into the position he would have been in had it not 
repossessed the car, sold it and kept the proceeds. Having found  that it should  not have been in a 
position to carry out these actions, its likely that I would  direct  Varooma to return the proceeds of its 
sale (above  the original capital  amount)  to Mr L. 
I would also consider  whether or not Varoomas sale realised the market  value of the car and the 
implications of this. If a reasonable estimate of the cars value was higher than the proceeds of 
Varoomas sale I might  consider that refunding  the proceeds of its sale alone  wouldnt put Mr L back 
into the position  he would  have  been in had he retained the car. I might  also consider that the whole 
matter had caused  Mr L considerable distress  and inconvenience and its likely  Id then award  him 
compensation for this. 
But in this case Mr L sold his car before Varooma  acquired it. I understand that he didnt use the 
proceeds of the sale to pay his Varooma loan  hes explained that he needed to sell his car to meet 
priority debts  such  as rent arrears. Mr L also said that the person he sold the car to is chasing  him for 
a refund and is threatening court action. As mentioned, Varooma  says that Mr L acted illegally by 
selling the car. So the circumstances of this case  are complicated - any redress I propose has to take 
into account  these circumstances yet cannot impinge  on any current investigations or potential court 
proceedings. 
Did Mr L suffer a financial loss because Varooma repossessed  the car, sold it and kept the 
proceeds?
I have looked again in detail at what happened after the loan was agreed.  Ive set out below a timeline  
of events based on information provided by both parties
27 Mar 2018 No loan payment was made on the first due date.
16 April Varooma  issued a Default Notice.
Ref: DRN23284591027 April Mr L paid £658.58 but his account remained in arrears due to additional charges  (and 
remains so for the duration of the agreement).
01 May Varooma  issued a Final  Demand Notice.
04 May Recovery Agent fees (£475)  and handling  charges (£35) were  shown on 
Mr Ls account.
27 May Varooma  refunded Recovery  Agent  fees (£275).
27 May Mr L made a contractual payment of £311.11  
27 June Mr L paid £340
27 July Mr L paid £340
15 Sept Mr L paid £340
15 Nov Mr L paid £311.11
15 Dec Mr L made a payment of £35. His account was now £762.96 in arrears.
7 Jan 2019 Mr L requested a repayment plan and provided income & expenditure  figures.
7 January Varoomas  response  to Mr L was: we have  now deemed your loan with us 
unaffordable. You now have  two options;  you can either choose to settle the loan in 
full or choose to voluntarily surrender your vehicle.
8 January Mr L emailed a complaint to Varooma about irresponsible lending.
15 January Mr L made a partial payment of £120.
18 January Varooma  issued a Default Notice.
25 February Mr L made another partial payment  of £120. His account was now £1,274.25 in 
arrears.
No loan payments were made in March  or April 2019.
28 April Varooma  issued a Default Notice issue to Mr L. This stated the consequences of non-
payment, including repossession  of his car.
29 April Mr L sold his car.
13 May Varooma  issued a Final  Demand notice via email. This also gave Mr L notice of 
repossession within two days. 
29 May Varooma  recovered  the car from its new keeper.
29 May Mr L resent his complaint  asking for an acknowledgement and an indication of 
timescales for dealing  with his complaint.  He also requested immediate return  of the 
vehicle to the new owner.
4 June Varooma  said The complaint has been  investigated  and I do not feel we will be able 
to provide you with a resolution  you are looking  for.
4 June Mr L brought his complaint  to this Service
12 June This Service requested information about Mr L from Varooma in order to begin  an 
investigation
2 July This Service requested the information again
9 July Varooma  sold the car at auction for £3,300.
11 July This Service requested the information again and asked Can  you also confirm  the 
current status of the account,  has the vehicle been  auctioned and can any action in 
relation to the agreement be held whilst  we investigate.
Varooma provided the information and said I can confirm we still have possession of 
the vehicle and at this stage  we cannot hold any action due to the length of time 
Ref: DRN232845911complaints are now taking to be investigated and responded  to and also the 
circumstances surrounding of the matter.
12 July Mr L said in an email to this Service If Greenlight  were to dispose  of the vehicle  at 
auction it would  put me in a significantly worse position  due to the vehicle only 
realising a fraction of its true worth at auction.
12 July This Service issued a view upholding Mr Ls complaint and directing Varooma to 
return the car to him.
15 July Varooma  applied £3,175.20 to Mr Ls loan to close the account.
22 July Varooma  confirmed to Mr L via email  that the car had been sold.
Ive transcribed the below from the email exchange that took place between Varooma  and Mr L on the 
7 January 2019:
Varooma: Could I please request that the attached income and expenditure form is filled out to 
the best of your ability  and also send  through 3 months of your most recent bank 
statements as this will allow us to access your situation.
Mr L: As discussed the income  shown on the I&E is in fact in my partners name and goes 
into our joint bank account. I do not currently have any income in my own name  
(which was also the case when  the agreement was taken out).
Varooma: Based  on not having  any income coming  through  in your name, I have to advise that 
we have  now deemed your loan with us unaffordable. You now have two options,  you 
can either choose to settle the loan in full or choose  to voluntary surrender your 
vehicle.
Mr L: As stated  in my email this was the same as when the initial application  was made  and 
approved (As shown on the bank statements provided  at point of application.)  How 
can Varooma now change  their mind?
All I am asking is that we can arrange a more  affordable payment until our financial  
situation improves. 
If Varooma are now saying the loan is unaffordable as the income isnt in my name, 
and this was the case when the loan was initially applied for, agreed, and paid out, 
then the loan would have been lent irresponsibly  in the first place.
Varooma: From what has been sent through I have rechecked the forms and statements and 
can see that you have £466 disposable income and can advise that we can continue 
with the loan at the payment  amount that was agreed when the loan was originally  
taken out for the amount of £311.11 per calendar month.
Ive transcribed the below from the email exchanges that took place between Varooma  and 
Mr L on the 29 May (the first paragraph) and 4 June (the last three):
Mr L Further to my telephone call today with [D] I would  like to resend you my complaint 
which was originally sent on 8th January 2019.  In addition to the complaint below, as 
things have now escalated  I would  request that you respond to this complaint within 5 
days due to the vehicle  being re-possessed  and this complaint directly  affecting the 
legality of the repossession. In addition to the actions  I requested  in the original 
complaint below I now also request the following  additional actions to be taken as 
soon as practicable: Vehicle to Be Returned to Keeper with Immediate  Effect.
Varooma We are happy for the financial ombudsman to take an intervention at this time but you 
must do so within  six months of the date of this email. 
Ref: DRN232845912Mr L Am I to assume  from your email that you are not prepared  to investigate this 
complaint and that if I wish to pursue it I must do so through  the FOS? I have raised 
this complaint three times since January however only now you send this response 
without actually  investigating any of the points  I have made.  I would appreciate it if 
you could clarify this point as soon as possible to enable me to assess  my options.
Varooma The complaint has been investigated and I do not feel we will be able to provide you 
with a resolution you are looking for. We are allowing you to contact the ombudsman 
to save time and allow the complaint to be investigated without further delay.
In my provisional decision I found that Mr L had suffered  a loss to the amount of £6,000 when 
Varooma repossessed and sold his car. I considered that Varooma was responsible for this loss 
because of its actions in irresponsibly  lending to Mr L in the first instance - the sale of the car by 
Varooma would not have happened had it not agreed to lend to Mr L. I said that it needed  to pay this 
amount to Mr L, minus the outstanding capital  balance remaining on his loan:
Mr L has lost out financially  because Varooma sold his car, depriving him of the use of the vehicle or 
the option  of benefitting from the sale of it. Putting Mr L back  into the position he would  have been had 
the loan not been agreed means  refunding him an amount to reflect its loss. As Ive explained  above, 
Varooma can deduct the amount of capital outstanding from any refund.
I am still of the view that Varooma was irresponsible to have  agreed a loan for Mr L and so it cannot 
collect money from him as per the terms of the credit agreement including  its associated  bill of sale.  I 
am not making any finding on the legality of Varoomas repossession of the car but that Varooma 
should not have been in the position of being  able to sell it or make  use of the funds from the sale.
However, while I am not making  any finding as to the legality of Mr Ls actions either in selling the car, 
I cannot ignore  the fact that he did, in fact, sell it before Varooma repossessed it. Furthermore, as I 
mentioned, I understand from Mr L that he spent the money he made  from the sale of the car. 
Varooma is of the view Mr L didnt lose out financially because of its actions given he sold the car 
beforehand and had the benefit of those proceeds. It says that to return  any money  to him would 
mean he has profited  from selling his car when he shouldnt have.  I understand that Varooma 
considers Mr Ls buyer to be an innocent third party in this matter.
Mr L feels that I should not take his sale of the car into account as it was not connected with the issue 
of irresponsible lending.  Mr L says that if his sale of the car is to be taken into account  I also need to 
consider that he has incurred  additional financial losses because  of this (I presume Mr L means  the 
additional amount the new keeper says they spent on improving the car). Mr L also says that 
Varooma knew that the lending  was irresponsible and therefore the lender was also aware that it 
would not be able to repossess and sell the vehicle to cover the loan repayments.  
I have considered these points very carefully. I understand  from Mr L that he is now being  pursued by 
the person he sold the car to and has received threatening messages, letters  and notices of legal 
action. Again, leaving aside  any other legal  ramifications arising from Mr Ls action,  it seems to me 
that while  he may have spent the money he received from his sale, he is now the position of having  to 
pay back these funds to his buyer, whether of his own volition or through court  proceedings.  
Varooma knew what had happened  because  it repossessed the car from Mr Ls buyer. And this 
action, which I dont think Varooma should have been in a position to carry  out, put Mr L in the 
position of having to refund his buyer, in effect  changing his sale proceeds into a debt. And by then 
selling the car, Varooma  deprived Mr L of the means of repaying that debt. And so I consider that he 
did, in fact, suffer a direct  financial loss because of its actions  the loss, as a minimum,  being  the 
amount he exchanged  his car for (£3,600). 
If Varooma still had the car, then I would direct it to return it to its previous keeper, Mr Ls buyer. It 
seems to me that this would have been the easiest way to redress the matter and is one reason why 
this Service asked Varooma to hold off on any further action relating to debt collection while Mr Ls 
Ref: DRN232845913complaint was investigated. And, as per CONC  7.15.10(R),  Varooma should have suspended its debt 
recovery because the debt was in dispute  on valid  grounds or reasonably valid grounds as I will go 
on to discuss later.  
Putting Mr L back into the position he would have been in prior to Varoomas acquisition of the car is 
quite difficult now that the car has been  sold on. I cannot direct the person who bought the car from 
Varooma to return it to the previous keeper. Varooma  could perhaps recover the car from its buyer 
and return it, but this involves a fourth party (the current keeper) in this matter, however,  and so 
seems to be a more complicated  form of redress than desirable. Paying Mr L an amount that restores  
the funds he was deprived  of to repay his debt to his buyer would  be a simpler  solution. 
My starting point is to direct Varooma to return all of its sale proceeds (above the capital balance)  to 
Mr L. So, at the least, Varooma needs to refund an amount of £1,876 to Mr L being its sale proceeds 
of £3,300  minus £1,424.  
As Ive found  Varooma was irresponsible to lend, Mr L shouldnt repay  more than the capital amount  
he borrowed. Mr L paid £2,576 in total towards his £4,000 loan and Varooma should treat these  
repayments as payments towards the original capital borrowed. This leaves an amount of £1,424 to 
be repaid.
As Ive explained, I think it would be fair that Varooma offsets this outstanding capital balance prior to 
any refund  to Mr L. Although it should not have given Mr L a loan, he has had the use of this money  
and it is fair that he should return  it. Mr L has asked  that any redress is paid to him without offsetting  
an amount but that isnt our usual approach and I see no reason to depart from it here. 
I have also considered whether there was value in the car above what Varooma received  for it.  
Varooma sold the car at auction via a used and salvage car specialist website and received £300 less 
than Mr L had for his sale of it. And, as Ive set out above, given the limited choice it offered to Mr L 
when he asked for help in agreeing a repayment plan and its comments about not wanting  to hold off 
on any debt collection  action, it seems  to me that it moved to repossess and sell the car as soon as 
possible. So I think its likely  that Varooma sold the car for less than it might have reached under other 
circumstances. 
I provisionally  found that a fair market value  for the car was likely to be around £6,000 (see 
Appendix 2 for further detail). Understandably both parties strongly  disagree with this figure   
Varooma says the car was worth  less than this while Mr L considers  it to have been worth far more.  
Varooma says that the person to whom Mr L sold the car spent money  to improve it. I understand this 
to have been  a few hundred  pounds with potentially  further work required. I do not doubt what 
Varooma said about the new owner  improving the car and Mr L himself  has said he is being pursued 
by his buyer for an amount of £1,000 above the price they paid for the vehicle because  of the 
improvements. 
Mr L says that he bought  the car for £7,300 and that he spent  money  on improving it. Hes also 
provided some figures  from car sales and general  selling websites of £7,995 to £8,995 which he says 
are for comparative vehicles. And he says that he was under duress  to sell the car and so accepted  
less for it than he might have done under other circumstances.
Mr L said  due to the financial situation Greenlight put me in I was falling behind on essential  bills 
such as rent, council tax etc. This is the reason  I felt I had no option other than to sell the vehicle  for 
considerably less than its true value to enable me to meet my day to day living expenses. The key 
point here is that had Greenlight NOT lent to me irresponsibly then I would not have had to sell my 
vehicle quickly and for well below market value. For completeness and to make things  clear, I would  
NOT have sold the vehicle if I had not been put in this position  by the Greenlight Credit.
Varooma says that Mr L was not under any duress to sell his vehicle. I can see from a recent credit 
file report Mr L provided that by 2019 he was not managing to repay most  of his historic  or current 
Ref: DRN232845914debts. For example, he was behind on many of his loans  and had more than £16,000 owing  across 
five county court  judgments, the most recent of which was issued in February 2019. I dont know to 
what extent Mr L was managing  to meet his priority debts, which he said included  rent arrears. 
Mr L had explained to Varooma before it agreed a loan that he used the car to bring  his disabled son 
to medical appointments.  In that context, it seems to me that he must  have been  under a considerable 
amount of duress to decide  to sell his car. I appreciate that Mr L did not then pay his debt to Varooma.  
However, this doesnt indicate to me that Mr L was not, in fact, under any financial duress  because  of 
Varooma but rather that he was under  duress  from a number of sources, including Varooma.  I have 
borne this in mind when considering whether or not Varooma should  pay Mr L compensation  for the 
distress and inconvenience  its actions caused.
Taking all of this into account, I think its reasonable to conclude that there was some value in the car 
above the price either party sold it for. However,  I do not intend to make  a finding on exactly how 
much value might have resided in the car because putting Mr L back  into the position he would have 
been in prior to Varooma repossessing and selling the car in this case means  returning him to the 
position of having sold his asset  and received  £3,600  for it. In other words, fair redress in this case  is 
to return  Mr Ls sale proceeds, not the (potential) value of his car as it was his action which lost his 
asset, not Varoomas. What  he received for his sale of the car in effect caps  the amount  of redress I 
can reasonably ask Varooma to make, even if there was value in the car above this. 
And so, in addition to returning the funds of the sale it received, I think Varooma needs to refund an 
additional £300 to Mr L, this being the difference between the price  Varooma received for its sale of 
the car and what Mr L received for his.  But, for the reasons  Ive explained above,  I dont think that it 
needs to do more  than that to redress the financial loss Mr L suffered as a result of its actions.
Should Varooma pay compensation to Mr L for any non-financial harm?
In my provisional decision I said that I have also thought about  whether  or not Varooma should pay 
Mr L an amount  to reflect that he has been deprived of the car since May 2019.  As mentioned, Mr L 
told Varooma  that he needed the car to bring  his son to hospital appointments and I appreciate that 
the impending  repossession  of the car must have caused him a great deal of stress. He said 
Unfortunately, due to the amount of the repayments to Varooma over a period of time this had placed  
me into great financial  difficulty including rent arrears and having to borrow from other creditors.  In 
April it came to a point where I had no choice  but to sell the vehicle to try and cover  the hardship I 
was in. 
I have thought  about  this matter carefully  bearing in mind the reasons Ive given  above which I think  
should have dissuaded Varooma from agreeing  credit for Mr L. However, in this case  given that Mr L 
sold the car ahead of its repossession, I dont think I can make an award for trouble and upset for its 
subsequent sale by Varooma.
As I explained above  I cannot hold Varooma  responsible  for Mr Ls actions in selling his car. And so I 
am still of the view that I cannot make an award for the distress and inconvenience that followed from 
that action.  
However, I have considered  in detail again everything  that happened between Varooma and 
Mr L and I now am of the view that Mr L did in fact suffer  distress and inconvenience because of other 
events.
Firstly, I think  its clear  from the timeline  and communications set out earlier in this document  that 
Varooma did not treat Mr L fairly when  he asked for help in January 2019 as it seems it would not 
consider developing a repayment plan with him. Varoomas response to Mr Ls request for a 
temporary arrangement  to help him through a difficult time was to tell him
You now have two options, you can either choose to settle the loan in full or choose to voluntary 
surrender your vehicle.
Ref: DRN232845915As Mr L wasnt in a position to meet his loan repayments he was clearly not going to be able to repay 
his debt in full. And Varooma  knew about  his reliance on his vehicle  because he told it he used  it to 
bring his disabled  son to hospital. The representative  was reluctant to proceed with a loan secured 
on Mr Ls vehicle and told him so saying:
I would be reluctant to proceed but we could probably work with it. I dont want  to put you in a 
detrimental situation where you dont make payments and we have to repossess the vehicle.
CONC 7.12.2(R)(3) states that a firm must not refuse to deal with a customer who is developing  a 
repayment plan, unless there  is an objectively justifiable reason  for doing so. And operating a policy  of 
refusal is not a justifiable  reason. 
The regulator  is also clear  that firms must not put pressure on consumers  to pay their debt in a single 
payment or pay more  than they can reasonably  afford and it would  be unfair  to pressure  them to take 
action that adversely impacts on their financial circumstances. 
CONC 7.3.10(R)  states that firm must not pressurise  a customer:
(1) to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments  or in unreasonably large  amounts, when to do 
so would  have an adverse  impact  on the customers financial circumstances;
 (2) to pay a debt within an unreasonably  short  period of time; or
[Note: paragraphs  3.7i of DCG and 7.18 of ILG]
(3) to raise funds to repay the debt by selling  their property, borrowing  money or increasing  existing 
borrowing.
[Note: paragraph  3.7b of DCG]
The DCG  refers to Debt  Collection  Guidance issued  by the previous regulator, the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). Section 3.7 of the DCG is entitled Physical/psychological  harassment and Paragraph  
3.7b states  that an example of unfair or improper practice in this regard would include  pressurising 
debtors to raise funds by selling their property or by taking on further borrowing including  extending 
their existing borrowing. 
Paragraph 3.7i gives another  example  of unfair or improper practice  as pressurising debtors to pay 
more than they can reasonably  afford1 without experiencing undue difficulty. For example,  by using 
the threat of enforcement  action through the courts  including but not limited  to applications  for 
charging orders or to pay within an unreasonably short  period.
I also think  Varooma  didnt treat Mr L fairly  when he complained that the loan was unaffordable  and 
should not have been given to him in the first place. 
CONC 7.14.5(R)  states A firm must provide a customer with information  on the outcome of its 
investigations into a debt which  the customer disputed on valid grounds.
[Note: paragraph  3.3g of DCG]
And paragraph 3.3g of DCG states that an example of unfair or improper  practice regarding 
communication would include Failing  to provide debtors with information on the outcome of 
investigations into reasonably queried or disputed debts.
As set out earlier in this decision, Varooma doesnt appear to have explained  to Mr L why it didnt 
uphold his complaint. It said the complaint has been investigated and I do not feel we will be able to 
provide you with a resolution you are looking for.
Furthermore, I also think that Varooma didnt treat Mr L fairly when it proceeded  to pursue  him for a 
debt that he had disputed.
Ref: DRN232845916CONC 7.14.1(R)(1) states that  A firm must suspend any steps it takes or its agent takes in the 
recovery of a debt from a customer where the customer disputes the debt on valid grounds or what  
may be valid grounds.
Given that Varooma told Mr L on 7 January 2019 that it deemed his loan to be unaffordable I consider 
he had valid grounds for disputing the debt. 
CONC 7.15.10(R)  states that A lender must not initiate legal proceedings in relation to a regulated 
credit agreement where the lender is aware  that the customer has submitted a valid complaint or what 
appears to the firm may be a valid complaint  relating to the agreement  in question that is being  
considered by the Financial  Ombudsman Service.
[Note: paragraph 7.9 (box) of ILG].
ILG refers to Irresponsible  Lending Guidance issued by the OFT. Paragraph  7.9 (box)  states
The objectives of pre-action protocols are to encourage the exchange of early  and full information 
about the prospective legal claim, to enable parties to avoid litigation  by agreeing a settlement of 
claim before  the commencement  of legal proceedings and to support the efficient management  of 
proceedings where litigation cannot be avoided. The OFT considers  it particularly important that 
creditors fully observe  the rights of borrowers  in respect of possession claims.
In the OFTs view, it would  not be appropriate  for creditors to initiate court proceedings where  it is 
known or understood  that the borrower  has submitted  a reasonable  complaint relating to the credit 
agreement that is being considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
I appreciate that Varooma didnt start legal  proceedings  against Mr L but it did take steps to recover 
its debt by reporting  the debt as in default, invoking the associated bill of sale and taking possession 
of the car. So it I dont  think Varooma treated Mr Ls debt as being  queried or in dispute as it should 
have done. 
In summary, I am in no doubt that Varooma contributed to Mr Ls overall  financial distress by giving 
him credit in the first instance and by its later actions. Varooma acknowledged at the beginning that 
lending to Mr L might  put him in a detrimental position. It seems to me that Varooma later put 
pressure on Mr L by suggesting he pay his debt in one go or surrender  his car when clearly he could 
do neither without causing  him serious difficulty. And by not engaging with his efforts to put a 
repayment plan in place  and issuing default  notices  it may well have contributed to the financial stress  
that Mr L said he was under at the time he decided  to sell the car.  
So I am making an award of £1,0004 for these failings,  the totality of which I consider caused 
considerable5 distress and inconvenience to Mr L. 
4 In coming  to this amount  I have  borne  in mind our approach to this type of compensation, set out here 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving-complaint/understanding-compensation
5 In my original  draft I referred to this as severe which  is one of the category  labels used on our website so I 
have changed  this adjective  to avoid  any confusion.
Ref: DRN232845917What Varooma needs to do to put things right 
In summary Varooma should:
Refund Mr L an amount  of £2,176 to reflect the financial loss it caused by repossessing and 
selling his car. 
This is made  up of:
£3,300 (the amount Varooma received for the car); plus
£300 (the shortfall between Varoomas and Mr Ls sale proceeds); minus
£1,424 (the outstanding capital balance  of Mr Ls loan).
pay Mr L an amount  of £1,000 to reflect the distress and inconvenience he incurred  by its 
actions commented on above; and
remove any negative information about this loan from Mr Ls credit  file.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above and in my first provisional decision, I intend to uphold 
Mr Ls complaint and direct Greenlight Credit Ltd trading as Varooma  to put things right as set out 
above. 
I appreciate that my decision  is likely to be disappointing for both parties in some respect. In my view 
it is the fairest  resolution  to the matter,  taking into account the legal  and regulatory framework in 
which this Services decision  are made.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add before considering my decision on 
this complaint once more.
Ref: DRN232845918Appendix 1 The legal and regulatory background to the lending
This appendix contains some of the laws and regulatory  rules and guidance that I have borne in mind 
when making my decision. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 25(2)  of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the regulator at the time (the Office 
of Fair Trading  the OFT)  had to have regard  to when  deciding whether or not to grant a consumer 
credit licence to a lender.  It said:
(1)In determining whether  an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant  including  
(amongst other things) 
(a)the applicants skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses  or ancillary credit businesses;
(b)such skills, knowledge  and experience  of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
(c)practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement  in connection  
with any such business;
(d)evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicants 
employees, agents or associates  (whether past or present) or, where  the applicant is a 
body corporate, any person appearing  to the OFT to be a controller  of the body 
corporate or an associate  of any such person, has
(a)committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty  or violence;
(b)contravened any provision made by or under
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  so far as it relates  to 
the consumer credit  jurisdiction under  that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or other 
transactions with individuals;
(c)contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
(d)practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national  
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
(e)engaged in business  practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or oppressive 
or otherwise unfair or improper  (whether  unlawful or not)
Section 25(2B) set out an example of the type of practice referred to in Section  25(2A(e)) and said:
Ref: DRN232845919For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider to be 
deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper  include practices in the carrying on of a 
consumer credit  business  that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending.
Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr Ls loan was given to him after Section  140 of the Consumer Credit Act came into force on 6 April 
2007. Section 140A  sets out circumstances where  the court may determine that the relationship 
between a creditor  and a debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section 140A says:
140A Unfair relationships between creditors and debtors
(1)The court  may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement  if 
it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more  of the following-
(a)any of the terms of the agreement or of any related  agreement;
(b)the way in which  the creditor has exercised  or enforced any of his rights under 
the agreement or any related agreement;
(c)any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either  before 
or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2)In deciding whether  to make a determination under  this section the court  shall have  
regard to all matters it thinks relevant  (including matters  relating to the creditor and 
matters relating to the debtor).
(3)For the purposes of this section the court  shall (except  to the extent that it is not 
appropriate to do so) treat anything done  (or not done) by, or on behalf of, or in relation 
to, an associate or a former  associate  of the creditor as if done (or not done)  by, or on 
behalf of, or in relation  to, the creditor.
(4)A determination may be made under this section in relation to a relationship  
notwithstanding that the relationship may have ended.
(5)An order  under section 140B shall not be made in connection with a credit  agreement  
which is an exempt  agreement [for the purposes of Chapter 14A of Part 2 of the 
Regulated Activities  Order by virtue of article 60C(2) of that Order  (regulated mortgage 
contracts and regulated home purchase plans)]
Section 140B sets out the types  of order the court could  make should it determine  that the relationship  
between the creditor and debtor is unfair to the debtor. Section  140B says:
140B Powers of court  in relation to unfair relationships
(2)An order  under this section in connection  with a credit agreement may do one or more of 
the following
(a)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to repay (in 
whole or in part) any sum paid by the debtor  or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement (whether  paid to the creditor, the associate 
or the former associate or to any other person);]
Ref: DRN232845920(b)require the creditor, or any associate  or former associate of his, to do or not to do 
(or to cease doing) anything specified in the order in connection  with the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(c)reduce or discharge  any sum payable  by the debtor or by a surety by virtue of the 
agreement or any related agreement;
(d)direct the return to a surety of any property provided  by him for the purposes of a 
security;
(e)otherwise set aside (in whole or in part) any duty imposed on the debtor or on a 
surety by virtue of the agreement or any related agreement;
(f)alter the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(g)direct accounts to be taken, or (in Scotland) an accounting to be made, between 
any persons.
Section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
On 1 February 2011 the majority of the legislation  implementing the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Directive 2008 came  into force. This included an additional requirement on a lender to carry out 
an Assessment of creditworthiness  which was set out in section 55B of the Consumer Credit Act. 
Section 55B said:
Assessment of creditworthiness
55B (1) Before making a regulated consumer credit agreement, other than an excluded 
agreement, the creditor must undertake an assessment of the creditworthiness  of the debtor.
(2) Before  significantly increasing
(a) the amount  of credit to be provided under a regulated consumer credit agreement, 
other than an excluded  agreement,  or
(b) a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated consumer credit 
agreement, other than an excluded agreement, the creditor must undertake
an assessment of the debtors creditworthiness.
(3) A creditworthiness assessment must  be based on sufficient information  obtained  from
(a)the debtor, where appropriate,  and
(b) a credit reference agency, where necessary.
(4) For the purposes of this section an agreement is an excluded agreement if it is
(a)an agreement secured on land, or
(b) an agreement under which a person takes an article in pawn..
Ref: DRN232845921Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)   what Varooma needed to 
do before agreeing credit
Mr Ls loan was agreed when  the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) was the regulator  for 
consumer credit. The FCAs Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the high level standards which  all 
authorised firms are required  to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G,  says
The Principles apply in whole  or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most  relevant principle here is PRIN 
2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  The purpose of CONC  is to set out the detailed  obligations that are specific to 
credit-related regulated activities and activities connected to those activities carried  on by firms. 
These build  on and add to the high-level  obligations,  for example,  in PRIN and the requirements  in or 
under the Consumer  Credit Act. 
This handbook sets out the rules which apply to providers of consumer credit like Varooma. CONC 
Section 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to responsible lending. And CONC Section 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
The Office of Fair Trading (the OFT) was the regulator  before April 2014. There is a high degree of 
alignment between the OFTs guidance to lenders (set out in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance or 
ILG) and the rules set out in CONC  5 and CONC 6. As is evident from the following  extracts, the 
FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back to sections  of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. It says a firm must  consider:
(a)the potential for the commitments under the regulated  credit agreement to adversely impact  
the customers financial situation, taking into account the information of which the firm is 
aware at the time the regulated  credit agreement is to be made;  and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated 
credit agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end agreement, to make 
repayments within  a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
Section 4.1 of the ILG says:
In the OFTs view, all assessments of affordability should involve a consideration of the potential for 
the credit commitment to adversely impact  on the borrowers financial situation, taking  account of 
information that the creditor  is aware of at the time the credit is granted. The extent and scope of any 
assessment of affordability, in any particular circumstance, should  be dependent upon  and 
proportionate to  a number of factors (see paragraph 4.10 of this guidance document).
Assessing affordability,  in the context  of this guidance, is a borrower-focussed test which  involves a 
creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, or specific additional  
Ref: DRN232845922credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Section 4.3 of the ILG says:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid  by the 
borrower:
without  undue difficulty   in particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness
over the life of the credit  agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period of time
out of income  and/or  available savings, without having  to realise  security or assets.
Section 4.10 of the ILG deals with the issues that might influence how detailed the affordability 
assessment should be. It includes factors  such as:
the type of credit product;
the amount  of credit to be provided and the associated cost and risk to the borrower;
the borrowers financial  situation  at the time the credit is sought;
the borrowers credit history, including any indications of the borrower  experiencing (or having 
experienced) financial  difficulty
the vulnerability of the borrower
CONC also includes  guidance about proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  
the type and amount of credit being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit 
not being  sustainable directly relates to the amount  of credit granted and the total charge for credit 
relative to the customers  financial situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
Section 4.11 of the ILG says:
The OFT accepts that it would  be disproportionate to require creditors to consider all of these factors6 
in all cases. The creditor should take a view on what is appropriate in any particular circumstance 
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of the credit being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the borrower.
Section 4.16 of the ILG says:
Whilst the OFT accepts,  as a general  principle  from a proportionality perspective,  that the level of 
scrutiny required for small sum and/or short-term credit may be somewhat less than for large sum 
and/or long term credit,  we consider that creditors should also take account  of the fact that the risk of 
the credit being unsustainable would be directly related  to the amount of credit granted (and 
associated interest / charges etc.) relative  to the borrowers financial situation
6 The factors set out in 4.10 of ILG
Ref: DRN232845923CONC 5.3 contains  further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when  thinking about 
affordability. And CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm 
should take into account  more than assessing the customers ability to repay  the credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
Section 4.2 of the ILG says:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being 
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question.
We consider that before granting credit, significantly increasing the amount of credit,  or significantly 
increasing the credit limit under an agreement for running  account credit, creditors should  take 
reasonable steps  to assess a borrowers likely ability to be able to meet  repayments under the credit 
agreement in a sustainable manner.
CONC 5.3.1G(2)  then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include 
the firm taking  reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet repayments under  a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
Paragraph 4.1 (box)  of the ILG says:
Assessing affordability,  in the context  of this guidance, is a borrower-focussed test which  involves a 
creditor assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment, or specific additional  
credit commitment, in a sustainable manner,  without the borrower incurring  (further)  financial 
difficulties and/or  experiencing adverse  consequences.
Section 4.2 of the ILG is set out above.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4)  has a 
reference to paragraphs 4.13, 4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(b)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers income 
and expenditure on a statement of those matters made  by the customer.
Section 4.15 of ILG states:
In our view,  creditors  who do not require documentary evidence of income and/or expenditure as part 
of their assessment of affordability, but rather accept information provided by the borrower without 
any supporting evidence or, in the alternative,
do not seek any information  on income  and/or expenditure at all as part of their assessment,  should 
ensure that whatever means and sources of information they employ are sufficient to make an 
appropriate assessment. We do not consider self-certification of income would generally  be sufficient 
in respect of significant long term
credit agreements, particularly those secured  on property.
Ref: DRN232845924And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement  where  the firm 
knows or ought reasonably  to suspect that the customer has not been truthful  in completing the 
application in relation  to information supplied  by the customer  relevant to the creditworthiness  
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
Paragraph 4.31 of ILG states:
Accepting an application for credit under circumstances in which  it is known, or reasonably  ought  to 
be suspected, that the borrower has not been truthful in completing the application for credit with 
regards to the information  supplied relevant to inform
an assessment of affordability.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority  (from 1 April 2014)   what Varooma needed to 
do after agreeing  credit
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit guidance (CONC) also set out lenders responsibilities in relation to debt. 
CONC 7.12.2  (R) (3) states that an example  of unfair business practices  which a firm must  not do is to 
refuse to deal with a customer  who is developing  a repayment plan, a third party who is assisting a 
customer to develop  a repayment plan or a third party  who is developing a debt management plan for 
the customers debts, unless there is an objectively justifiable reason for doing so.
[Note: paragraphs  3.9c of DCG  and 3.49b  of DMG]
Rule CONC  7.12.2(R)(5)  states that a firm must  not 
operate a policy of refusing  to negotiate with certain third parties or with a customer  developing their 
own repayment  plan. 
[Note: paragraph  3.9c (box) of DCG].
The DCG  refers to Debt  Collection  Guidance issued  by the previous regulator, the Office of Fair 
Trading (OFT). Paragraph 3.9c stated that an example of unfair  or improper practice would include 
refusing to engage, appropriately or at all, with a third party representative, such  as a debt adviser  at 
a free advice centre  or a debt management business, or with a debtor developing his own repayment 
plan unless there  is an objectively  justifiable reason for doing so.
And it clarified that operating  a policy of refusing to negotiate with certain third party representatives  
or with a debtor developing his own repayment plan would not, in the OFTs  view, constitute  an 
objectively justifiable basis in this context.
Furthermore CONC 7.3.10(R) states  that firm must not pressurise a customer:
(1) to pay a debt in one single or very few repayments  or in unreasonably large  amounts, when to do 
so would  have an adverse  impact  on the customers financial circumstances;
[Note: paragraph  7.18 of ILG]
(2) to pay a debt within an unreasonably short  period of time; or
[Note: paragraphs  3.7i of DCG and 7.18 of ILG]
(3) to raise funds to repay the debt by selling  their property, borrowing  money or increasing  existing 
borrowing.
[Note: paragraph  3.7b of DCG]
Ref: DRN232845925Section 3.7 of the DCG is entitled Physical/psychological harassment and Paragraph 3.7b states 
that an example of unfair or improper practice in this regard would include pressurising debtors to 
raise funds by selling  their property or by taking on further borrowing including  extending their existing 
borrowing. 
Paragraph 3.7i gives another  example  of unfair or improper practice  as pressurising debtors to pay 
more than they can reasonably  afford1 without experiencing undue difficulty2. For example, by using  
the threat of enforcement  action through the courts  including but not limited  to applications  for 
charging orders or to pay within an unreasonably short  period.
1. For example, pressurising  a debtor  to make  unreasonably large repayments or to pay off his debts 
in full in a single (or very few) repayment(s), when to do so would  have an adverse impact on the 
debtors financial circumstances.
2. The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the debtor  being able to 
make repayments while also meeting other debt repayments and other  normal / reasonable outgoings 
and without having to borrow further to meet these repayments.
CONC 7.14.1(R)(1) states that:
A firm must suspend any steps it takes,  or its agent  takes in the recovery of a debt from a customer  
where the customer disputes the debt on valid grounds or what  may be valid grounds. [Note: 
paragraph 3.9k of DCG]
Paragraph 3.9k of the OFTs Debt Collection Guidance stated that an example  of unfair or improper 
practice would  include
Failing to cease debt recovery activity whilst investigating a reasonably queried or disputed  debt when 
the debtor has, or appears  as if he may have, valid grounds for the query  or dispute.
CONC 7.14.2(G)  says that valid grounds for disputing a debt include that:
(1) the individual being pursued for the debt is not the true borrower or hirer under the agreement in 
question; or
(2) the debt does  not exist;  or
(3) the amount  of the debt being pursued is incorrect.
[Note: annex  A3 of DCG] 
Annex A3 of the DCG explains that this list is non-exhaustive.   
CONC 7.14.5(R)  states
A firm must provide a customer with information  on the outcome of its investigations into a debt which 
the customer  disputed on valid grounds.
[Note: paragraph  3.3g of DCG]
And paragraph 3.3g of DCG states that an example of unfair or improper  practice regarding 
communication would include
Failing to provide debtors with information on the outcome of investigations into reasonably  queried 
or disputed  debts.
Finally, CONC 7.15.10(R) states  that
A lender  must not initiate legal proceedings  in relation to a regulated credit agreement where the 
lender is aware that the customer has submitted  a valid complaint or what appears to the firm may be 
Ref: DRN232845926a valid complaint relating to the agreement in question that is being considered by the Financial  
Ombudsman Service.
[Note: paragraph 7.9 (box) of ILG]
ILG refers to Irresponsible  Lending Guidance issued by the OFT. Paragraph  7.9 (box)  states
The objectives of pre-action protocols are to encourage  the exchange of early  and full information 
about the prospective legal claim, to enable parties to avoid litigation  by agreeing a settlement of 
claim before  the commencement  of legal proceedings and to support the efficient management  of 
proceedings where litigation cannot be avoided. The OFT considers  it particularly important that 
creditors fully observe  the rights of borrowers  in respect of possession claims.
In the OFTs view, it would  not be appropriate  for creditors to initiate court proceedings where  it is 
known or understood  that the borrower  has submitted  a reasonable  complaint relating to the credit 
agreement that is being considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Appendix 2 Vehicle  valuation
Assessing the value  of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. This Services approach to car 
valuations in most cases is to assess  the market  value  as the retail price which  a consumer would 
have had to pay for a comparable  vehicle at a dealer  immediately before the damage or loss7. Our 
usual approach is to obtain several valuations  from online  motor-trade guides and average these. 
Valuing the car in this case is a bit more complicated as it was imported, but I was able to obtain 
bespoke valuations from two well-known guides. 
Cap-hpi Cazana
Retail £7,000
Clean £6,000
Average £5,400
Below £4,700Retail £6,874
Trade £6,324 (good)
These values  are based on likely selling prices  (at the time of obtaining the valuation). Retail  is the 
price youd expect a vehicle to be sold for by a dealership and is effectively  the price Mr L might have 
to pay to replace the car. The price range given  depends on condition i.e. clean is when  the vehicle  
has been kept in good condition etc. Based on these values, it seems  Mr Ls car could potentially sell 
for an average price of £6,162 through a dealer or a private  individual8 if it was deemed to be in good  
condition and £4,700 if it was deemed to be in below average condition.
Other figures available include Varoomas own valuations  of £5,800 at the time of Mr Ls loan 
application and a PAV of £5,995  at the time it sold the car. I understand from Varooma  that it obtains 
its information from auto trader and other car selling sites. 
Based on the above it seems reasonable  to conclude  that a fair market  price for Mr Ls vehicle was 
likely to have been higher  than the price either he or Varooma received for it.
7 This is generally referred to as the Pre-Accident Value or PAV
8 Cap-hpi didnt  distinguish between  a dealership or private sale
Ref: DRN2328459