K820x#14complaint
In accordance with our normal approach,  Ill refer to the consumer as Mr G.
Mr G complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) when he took out a personal loan in 1997. Theres very little information about  the sale. 
So its not clear  how much Mr G borrowed from Barclays and he himself cant  really say 
much about  the circumstances either.  Its not even clear how much  he paid for the PPI and 
no original documents  are left for us to look at. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further  
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve had responses from both parties. 
Barclays doesnt want to send in any new information or arguments.  Mr G sent in some  
copies of medical records and accompanying arguments.
As I said in my provisional decision,  these events  are now well over two decades old. Mr G 
said he cant remember what happened at the point of sale but he doesnt think  he would 
have ever knowingly  agreed to PPI. And because of the job he had, he doesnt think  he 
needed it.
But a central  point of Mr Gs complaint was also his medical history.  He said hed been 
suffering from an existing medical problem when he was sold this policy  and he had taken  1 
or 2 weeks  off work  with the illness  around  1992 / 93. Sometimes this can make the PPI 
hard to claim  on.
But I explained in my provisional decision firstly,  why I didnt think we could rely on 
recollections from so long ago  and secondly, why I didnt think this particular medical issue 
made Mr Gs complaint one that we should  uphold anyway. So I asked  to see more  
evidence.
Im very grateful to Mr G for the effort hes gone  to. But his medical  records  tend to show  his 
illness was later that hed remembered; it appears  to have been after the PPI sale. 
To me this demonstrates  the difficulty in recalling what  happened  so long ago and as 
genuine as Mr Gs recollections no doubt are, Im afraid I cant completely rely on their 
accuracy. I dont think this medical issue is relevant  to the sale of the PPI in 1997.
Mr Gs other  point  is that he had a good job, with good benefits. I completely understand the 
point hes making  i.e. that he didnt need this type of cover. But this doesnt necessarily 
make the PPI of no use to him. Mr G was still eligible  for this type of cover and I dont think 
hed have been caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. In the event of a successful claim,  Mr G would have been able to have his loan 
repayments met every month by having such a policy.  This would have  been  in addition  to 
Ref: DRN29780602the work-related benefits Mr G already enjoyed. I dont therefore think  the recommendation 
to have the PPI was unreasonable. I think the cover was suitable for him.
I recognise I will be disappointing Mr G with my decision. But overall I think  the more  likely 
scenario in this case is that Mr G was aware of the PPI because  he would have been able to 
see it had been  set up on his agreement. We no longer have access to his original 
agreement but on sample documents Ive seen, the cost of the PPI was usually set out. I 
also think hed have  been sent or given something explaining what the policy did. I explain 
this more in my provisional decision set out below.
I think its equally as likely  that Mr G just doesnt remember  all this after nearly  22 years and 
I think the recollections about  the medical issue somewhat demonstrate  this. Accordingly, 
theres not enough evidence for me to say this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint. And dont require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN29780603summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Mr G complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI)  when 
he took out a personal loan in 1997.
background
We have  very little information about the sale. 
Its not clear how much  Mr G borrowed  from Barclays or how much he paid for the PPI and no original 
documents are left for us to look at. But Barclays has told us it was most probably  a single premium 
type of PPI policy. These types of policy required the consumer to pay for the PPI up front in one 
single payment. That amount was also usually  borrowed  alongside  the actual loan. Both the loan and 
PPI part of the loan then attracted interest charges over the term and the consumer  made  a monthly 
repayment, covering both aspects of the borrowing.
Obviously these  events are now well over two decades  old. So I its not unreasonable that Barclays 
cant give me as much information about this case as wed normally expect.  Barclays also says the 
loan was probably  paid off in 1999 and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
Mr G cant  really say much about the circumstances  either. For the same reasons, he cant  remember 
what happened at the point of sale but he doesnt think he would have ever knowingly  agreed to PPI. 
And because  of the job he had, he doesnt think he needed it.
I can see our adjudicator in this case looked very carefully at what evidence weve  managed to find. 
He said, on balance, that the complaint should be upheld. But Barclays disagreed the policy was mis-
sold and so the case  has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this Im afraid Im not currently intending to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
In the absence  of any of the original sale documentation from either Mr G or Barclays, weve been 
sent certain examples of the type of paperwork Barclays says would have been used back in 1997 
for these types of loan. I think  its fair to take these documents into account because  weve seen other 
Barclays sales which  are very similar in nature to this one, from that time period.  And our experience  
is that the examples weve now been sent in this case are of the type that were used to sell single  
premium PPI with a loan in 1997. Put another way, the examples weve been sent are most likely the 
same documents used in Mr Gs sale.
Both parties seem to agree the loan and PPI were sold at a meeting in a Barclays branch. Based on 
our experience and the forms  weve been sent,  we think Barclays provided consumers  with a credit 
agreement, which explained  the consumer had agreed to the PPI during a prior discussion. The cost 
of both the loan and the PPI part of the loan were then set out separately on the agreement  and given  
to the consumer to sign.
I cant  say what was said to Mr G during his meeting with Barclays however I think  the documents that 
he most likely  signed would have showed him the PPI was being added  to his loan. I think if he hadnt 
wanted this he would have  been able to ask what the extra charges were for.
Ref: DRN29780604Barclays concedes it probably  recommended this cover to Mr G. This means  it had to make sure that 
the policy  was suitable for him. I think it probably  was.
He was eligible  for the PPI. Nevertheless, Mr G told us about a medical  condition hed had in the 
1980s and again in the 1990s and our adjudicator thought this might make claiming quite difficult 
under the policy rules. This is because they excluded  certain pre-existing conditions  that ..  you  
knew about or which you received advice, treatment or counselling for from any doctor during the 12 
months before the starting date.
Ive thought about the medical  episodes and condition  Mr G told us about  and also asked  for more 
information about them to help me decide  whether or not they affected anything. I certainly dont wish 
to imply these werent of importance  to Mr G at the time. But he himself  acknowledges that this time 
period is very difficult  to be specific about because it was so long ago. His most  recent recollection is 
that his condition  had presented itself in the 1980s. He then had 1 or 2 weeks off work with the same 
illness around  1992  / 93.
So whilst I acknowledge and sympathise on the challenges of remembering  this far back, the 
information provided  isnt particularly specific. And I dont feel I can rely on its accuracy  because  of 
when it was. Even if I accept that Mr G is accurate with the dates  he was off work from,  this was up to 
5 years before the sale of his PPI policy. 
The question I need to think about is whether this bout of sickness  would have changed  what  Mr G 
went on to do, if hed been fully told about the PPI policy  rules and exclusions.  
His condition was not an uncommon one and it seems to me that he was probably  symptom-free for 
quite some time at the point of sale. And looking at the policy rules, I do think its possible the 
condition might  have been excluded because it was pre-existing. However,  this isnt certain  and it is 
partly based on an assumption that the dates are accurate, which  I cant be sure they are. 
Looking carefully at the other aspects of the PPI cover, I dont  think hed have been caught  by any of 
the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I agree Mr G would have had some 
sickness protection with his job, but this doesnt make the PPI unsuitable for him. In the event of other 
forms of sickness - or unemployment, for example   Mr G would  have been able to have his loan 
repayments met every month by having such a policy. I dont therefore think the recommendation to 
have the PPI was unreasonable. 
So I think the cover was suitable for Mr G.
Barclays also had to give Mr G information about the key features of the policy that was
clear, fair and not misleading. On the sample documents Ive referred  to above,  I can see that the cost 
of the PPI was set out. So I think  Mr G was probably  given clear enough information about the cost of 
the policy  and I note he would also have been told about how to cancel  the cover if he changed  his 
mind. 
Ref: DRN29780605So in summary, Ive looked  at what Mr G told us about why he thought the policy  was mis-sold. His 
recollections of the sale are understandably  vague given how long ago this all was. He says he didnt 
need this type of protection, but thats not the same as it being of no use, or unsuitable for him. 
Policies like this are designed to cater for unforeseen events and they aimed to provide financial  
support during uncertain times. There is a possibility that Mr G may not have been able to claim for a 
pre-existing condition he says he had, but the proximity of this condition to the sale isnt clear. In any 
event, other  medical  conditions and unemployment were covered.
The more likely scenario is that Mr G was aware of the PPI because  he would have been able to see 
it had been set up on his agreement. I also think hed have been sent or given something explaining 
what the policy did. 
I think  its equally  as likely that he just doesnt remember  this after nearly  22 years. Accordingly, I 
dont currently think theres enough evidence for me to say this PPI policy was mis-sold.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  And I dont intend to direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything to put matters  right. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 14 
March 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN2978060