K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to transfer his ISA funds to its managed 
investment division promptly, causing him a financial loss. He said that after upholding his 
complaint its offer of £100 did not reflect his likely loss.
background
An investigator at this service agreed that Barclays offer was inadequate, saying it should 
put Mr B back in the position hed now be if it had processed the transfer within  its promised 
timescale i.e. within 10 days of 11 April 2018. This meant calculating how many 
stocks/shares wouldve  been  bought with the transferred cash  compared to those that had 
been belatedly  purchased  after the delay.
Barclays did not agree and challenged a number of the investigators reasons for reaching 
such a conclusion. After  further exchanges, it accepted the investigators broad argument 
but didnt agree that the transfer could have  been completed by 21 April. Instead,  it said this 
would have been done by 27 April but for its mistakes. Having calculated the difference in 
shares prices, it said Mr B had not suffered as a result of its mistake.  It claimed that its 
Wealth Management team would have  bought  fewer  shares  with his ISA cash  if thered been 
no delay.
The investigator supplied  a copy of Barclays calculations to Mr B, and he then undertook  his 
own investigation of all the comparative stock  prices on the two days in question. This took a 
considerable amount of time and effort given the numerous transactions, the necessary 
foreign pricing/exchange rate calculations etc. 
In his response Mr B listed  a number of alleged errors with Barclays calculations  and 
provided a table detailing his comparative  figures  and the basis of them.  He said this showed 
he had lost just over £2,100 as a result  of the agreed  delay period. He said that Barclays so-
called calculations were  completely flawed  and made a mockery of its claim to treat 
customers fairly.
The investigator said Barclays should pay compensation based on the formula which  Mr B 
had used in order  to assess his losses.
Barclays, after another delay, admitted its calculations had not been correct. It did not 
dispute Mr Bs calculations but said it could not make a calculation  based  on the stock prices  
on the specific days in question. It also felt it was more appropriate to calculate the 
performance of his new portfolio on an averaged monthly basis.  It then proposed instead to 
use an investment index. Based on this, it was prepared to pay Mr B £1,800 and speak to 
HMRC about ensuring this sum was effectively reinvested in the appropriate tax year to 
avoid losing ISA tax benefits.
The investigator also said Barclays  should  pay an additional £150  in trouble and upset 
payment given all the further inconvenience this whole issue had caused. Barclays  did not 
agree.
During these lengthy exchanges Mr B said he would accept a total of £2,250  in final 
settlement of his complaint.
Ref: DRN23065602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the investigator 
and for all the same reasons. I will therefore  not repeat these.
From what  Ive read, Barclays very belatedly accepted its mistakes did cause Mr B a 
financial loss (due to the delay in the ISA cash being  reinvested  in its managed portfolio).  It 
also accepted  that it needed to ask HMRC  to reinvest this loss in a way which  meant the 
money retained its ISA protection.  It also accepted  its failures caused Mr B trouble and 
upset.
As the investigator  said, this services objective  is to put a complainant back into the position  
they would  now be in but for a businesss mistake. I am satisfied that the investigators  
proposed formula  is designed to do that. I do not accept  that Barclays  formula would do so 
and its recent suggestion of using a particular investment index certainly does  not.
However, where a business has said it is unable to carry out a specific redress formula  
whether it is right or not  this can lead to further,  lengthy delays after a final decision has 
been issued, and potentially further dispute  about  the eventual  compensation offered.
Given the length of time this complaint has been  going on  largely due to Barclays  failures 
 I am reluctant to go down this road if there is a simpler, and broadly fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this dispute.
I spoke to Mr B and he confirmed that he would still be happy to accept a total payment of 
£2,250 even though  I said that a new calculation  might result in a slightly higher 
compensation (when the increased  trouble and upset  payment is taken  into account) This is 
therefore what I intend to instruct Barclays to pay  and for the following  reasons.
Barclays has not, in my view, explained why it is unable to carry out the loss calculation  
proposed by the investigator. I do not believe this is difficult, let alone impossible. This would 
have been the most  appropriate basis for redress. Neither has it challenged Mr Bs figures 
which suggest he lost £2,100. Even if these figures  are not entirely  accurate, having  looked 
at them  it seems more likely  than not that they are on the right lines.  Its offer of £1,800 is not 
a million miles from this.
The investigator also proposed Barclays increase its trouble  and upset payment from £100  
to £250 and I agree with her about  this. Barclays has consistently failed to seriously address 
Mr Bs likely loss as a result of its errors, something which has forced Mr B into spending 
significant amounts  of time and energy undertaking his own calculations. If anything, I think 
the proposed  increase to £250 does not fully reflect the extra and unnecessary  trouble and 
upset Barclays has caused.
Given all the above, I am satisfied that the total figure of £2,250 is fair and reasonable, 
particularly given a detailed calculation could result  in a higher figure. However,  as Mr B is 
satisfied with this sum in order  to finally resolve  this complaint, I believe this is the best 
solution.
So I instruct  Barclays to pay Mr B £2,000 in lieu of his likely investment loss and £250 in lieu 
of the trouble and upset it has caused.
Ref: DRN23065603It must also approach HMRC to ask it to treat this £2,000 as having been  invested/kept  
within his ISA wrapping in the appropriate  tax year. If it does not agree, Barclays must  pay 
additional compensation in lieu of this. When I spoke to Mr B he said that he fully funds  his 
annual ISA allowance,  feeding money  from his portfolio accordingly, and intends to continue  
doing so. Given  the size of his portfolio, I can see no reason why he will not be able to do 
this.
Therefore, Barclays will need  to compensate Mr B  in the event of HMRC rejecting its 
request  on the basis that this £2,000 would have  retained ISA protection for 10 years. 
There is an agreed formula for calculating such an investment  loss; if necessary, Barclays  
can seek guidance from this service about how to do this.
my final decision 
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2306560