K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Allianz Insurance Plc has turned  down his pet insurance  claim.
background
In March 2018, Mr S made a successful claim  under  the policy  after his dog experienced 
ligament damage  to her left stifle (Ill call his dog D). Allianz paid the policy limit for Ds 
treatment.
In September  2018, D needed treatment  for ligament damage to her right stifle and Mr S 
made a further  claim under the policy. Allianz turned down the claim as it thought  it was for 
the same  condition as the earlier claim.  It said the policy doesnt cover  an injury  or illness  
with the same diagnosis  as an injury or illness it has paid the limit for. Unhappy with this, 
Mr S brought a complaint  to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She didnt think  Allianz had shown 
there was a link between the two claims.  She recommended  Allianz  deal with the claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 3 January 2020. My findings were:
The policy  says:
Each illness or injury is covered for 12 months starting from the date your pet first 
received treatment for the injury  or illness or up to the limit of £3,000, whichever  
happens first.
And
After we have paid the cost of treatment  for 12 months or the maximum benefit for an 
injury or illness we will not pay the cost of any more treatment for:
a)The same  injury  or illness,
b)An injury or illness with the same diagnosis as the injury or illness we have paid 
the limit for, or
c)An injury or illness that is caused  by, relates  to, or results  from, an injury or illness  
that we have paid the limit for.
No matter where the injury or illness  is noticed  or happens in, or on, your pets body.
Ive looked at the vet notes from March 2018,  when D had problems with her left stifle.  
The notes say Ds left hind limb showed  severe instability. The vet said this was consistent 
with CCL (cranial cruciate ligament)  failure.  The vet also noted that the CCL on Ds right 
stifle was also affected but said it wasnt showing any clinical signs at the time. 
In the claim form Mr S sent to Allianz,  the vet said the illness or injury was cruciate ligament 
rupture left stifle.
D then underwent cruciate ligament  repair to her left stifle, the cost of which  was covered by 
Allianz. 
Ive also looked  at the vets notes from September 2018, when D had problems with her right 
stifle. 
Ref: DRN27620482The notes say D was limping. On examination, D was found to be 7/10 lame  on the right 
back leg. An x-ray was then carried out which showed there was CCL disease. 
Mr S claimed for the CCL rupture of Ds right stifle. 
D then underwent a cruciate ligament repair to the right stifle. As Allianz had turned down 
the claim,  Mr S paid for this himself. 
Ds vet has explained  there are different  names  for the same  CCL problem. It can be called 
CCL disease, CCL rupture and CCL failure (amongst others). He confirmed they all describe 
a situation where  the CCL is unable to perform its normal function. He said these are always 
the result  of traumatic rupture, as the CCL is a ligament formed by multiple fibres and needs  
to break  (either partially or totally) to be able to malfunction. 
The vet has also explained that D has had CCL failure of both stifles, but says there is no 
evidence to say that the CCL problems  are a bilateral condition.  He also said the vet 
community has found no link between CCL in both legs. And the fact that a dog breaks his 
CCL in one leg doesnt mean he will have the same  problem in the other leg. The vet 
thought Allianz  should treat both CCL failures as totally independent  incidents  and unrelated  
from each other. 
Is the claim covered  under the policy terms?
The first claim  paid by Allianz  was for CCL failure  (of the left stifle). The monetary limit for 
that condition  was reached during  that claim.  
The policy says that once the maximum benefit has been paid for a condition,  there  will be 
no cover  for an injury or illness with the same diagnosis as the injury or illness the limit has 
been paid for, regardless  of where  this happens  in the body.
That means that if D were  then diagnosed  with CCL failure elsewhere on her body, this 
wouldnt be covered.  The second occurrence  of CCL failure wouldnt have to be linked to the 
first for Allianz to be able to turn down the claim under this part of the policy. 
As the second  claim is also for CCL failure  (referred to as CCL disease in the vet notes), Im 
satisfied that means it isnt covered  under the policy - even though  its in a different part of 
the body to the first occurrence of CCL failure.
I recognise my decision will disappoint  Mr S, but I think  Allianz  has turned down the claim in 
line with its policy terms and conditions.  
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make.
Allianz confirmed it had no further comments.
Mr S provided further evidence from his vet for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN27620483Mr Ss vet has provided me with some further  comments. He says the second claim was for 
CCL failure  and this generic  term was used because he didnt know the exact  cause of the 
rupture. He said its unclear if its a unilateral  condition or a bilateral condition.  The vet 
concluded by saying that in his professional opinion, we cant  assume that CCL failure is a 
bilateral condition. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss vets opinion, however this doesnt change  my view that 
Allianz was entitled  to turn down  the second claim.  Ill explain why. 
I accept that CCL failure may not be a bilateral  condition  (in other  words,  affecting both 
sides). However, it doesnt  need  to be a bilateral  condition in order for it to fall under the 
policy exclusion. 
For Allianz to rely on the policy exclusion,  it only needs to show  that D has suffered an injury 
or illness with the same  diagnosis as the injury or illness that it has paid the policy  limit for. 
Allianz paid the policy  limit under  the first claim, which was for CCL failure  (of the left stifle). 
As Ive said in my provisional decision, that means that if D were then diagnosed with CCL 
failure elsewhere on her body - even if that CCL failure were completely unrelated to the first 
CCL failure - this would fall under the exclusion.  As thats whats  happened here, I remain  
satisfied that it was reasonable for Allianz to turn down the second  claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN2762048