K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont honour or reissue a cheque that 
another building society sent to him in May 2002.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 15 July 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Nationwide  had acted  reasonably and 
fairly in refusing to honour or reissue Mr Gs cheque,  which dated back to 2002. And I 
outlined the reasons why I wasnt minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Nationwide responded to say it had nothing further to add. But Mr G stated  that he rejected 
my decision.  
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr G said he thought Nationwide should  retain  
financial ledger  records for longer than six years. And he stated  that he expected  it to retain  
computerised records for a minimum period of 25 years. Mr G also thought that his evidence 
that he had not cashed  his cheque or had it reissued should be favoured in the absence  of 
any evidence and information to the contrary from Nationwide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  this complaint concerns a cheque which is now 17 
years old. The age of this cheque presents difficulties here because  records  from the 
building society that issued that cheque, namely  D, no longer exist and arent within 
Nationwides possession.
In my provisional decision I explained  that for me to arrive at the conclusion that Mr G is due 
this money and for me to fairly tell Nationwide to reissue his cheque  I would  have to be able 
to discount a number of possibilities. To assist both parties I clarified that I would need to be 
satisfied on the balance of probabilities that this cheque hadnt been  cashed, replaced or 
written off by D.
Ive already given  the reasons why Im satisfied  that this cheque  was not cashed by Mr G 
and that rationale  appears to have been  accepted by each  party to this complaint.
In relation to the issue of whether the cheque was reissued by D I have to consider the 
evidence thats  available  to me. Mr G thinks Nationwide should have records  dating  back  25 
years. But, as I explained in my provisional  decision, Nationwide isnt required to do so. Im 
still not persuaded that expecting Nationwide to have  records from 2002 is a fair or 
reasonable expectation. As I stated in my provisional decision Mr Gs cheque was dated 
seven years before Nationwide  merged with D. And nothing that Mr G has said in his 
response persuades  me that Nationwide should  have access  to records dating beyond the 
six years  its required to have.
Ref: DRN33796252Mr G says that if his cheque had been  reissued he would no longer hold the original cheque. 
But Nationwide doesnt hold records to assist with this enquiry. And as D is no longer trading 
Im unable to ask it what its practice was when reissuing cheques. So, Im unable  to ask it to 
check its records to clarify  this issue.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr G isnt able to comment  on whether D wrote his 
cheque off as this isnt something he would necessarily have been  aware  of. And because  
Nationwide doesnt  have access to records D created dating back  to 2002 it isnt able to 
assist with whether  the cheque was written  off by D. 
Mr G has asserted that any doubt  should be resolved in his favour. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, in the absence of evidence that this cheque was either  reissued or 
written off, Im not persuaded that I can fairly discount these possibilities. So, I remain 
persuaded that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Nationwide to reissue this cheque. 
Im grateful  to Mr G for his comments. And I appreciate  he is disappointed by the decision 
Ive reached here. But I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my 
provisional decision. I therefore dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 15 July 2019
complaint
Mr G complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont honour or reissue a cheque that 
another building society sent to him in May 2002.
background
In May 2002  a building  society,  which Ill refer to as D, wrote to Mr G to explain that it was 
closing his Cash ISA account. And it sent him a cheque in the sum of £100.  Mr G said he 
Ref: DRN33796253never cashed this cheque  and only found  it in 2017 because his mother  was moving  into a 
care home and he had left this cheque and some  other documents with her while  he had 
been working abroad. 
By this point  D had merged with Nationwide. So Mr G attended a Nationwide  branch to ask it 
to reissue his cheque  because  he realised  he wouldnt be able to cash  it unless it was 
replaced as D no longer  existed. But Nationwide refused to reissue thus cheque. When  Mr G 
complained about this Nationwide  didnt uphold his complaint  because  it felt it hadnt made 
an error. It told him his cheque wasnt showing as outstanding. So, it thought  it had either 
been previously  cashed, or reissued or written  off by D ahead of its merger with Nationwide  
as it was out of date.  And it said it had no obligation to reissue the cheque given its age. But 
it sent Mr G a cheque for £30 because he said he hadnt received a response to previous  
correspondence.
Mr G wasnt happy with how Nationwide  had dealt with his complaint so he referred it to our 
service. He told us he hadnt  cashed  the cheque and still had possession of it. And he said it 
hadnt been replaced by either D or Nationwide. To put matters  right Mr G said he wanted 
Nationwide to reissue his cheque and pay him interest and compensation. 
After our adjudicator investigated, they thought Nationwide hadnt acted fairly or done  
enough to resolve  Mr Gs complaint. And they recommended that Nationwide should reissue 
Mr Gs cheque. But Nationwide didnt accept their view. So, the complaints now been  
referred to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im departing from what  
our adjudicator has said. Ill explain why
This crux of this complaint  concerns  Nationwides  decision not to honour or reissue a 17 
year old cheque. After  Mr G referred this matter to our service our adjudicator asked 
Nationwide whether it consented  to us considering this complaint. And Nationwide told us 
that it consented to us looking  at its decision not to reissue  the cheque. Based on what Ive 
seen, while  this cheque  is 17 years old now, Mr G has said he only presented  it to 
Nationwide in 2017 having  found  it then. And it was only at this point that Nationwide  told 
him that it wouldnt reissue  it. Until this was confirmed to Mr G by Nationwide Im satisfied 
that he didnt have cause to complain. So, I think Mr G brought his complaint to Nationwide  
as promptly as he could  on finding  his cheque. And with this in mind,  Im satisfied this 
service can consider whether Nationwide made an error when it decided not to issue  a 
replacement cheque. 
In reaching a decision about  this complaint Ive thought very carefully about what both Mr G 
and Nationwide  have  said here.  Having done  so, Ill explain why I dont think Nationwide 
acted unfairly and unreasonably  in declining to reissue  Mr Gs cheque.
For me to arrive at the conclusion that Mr G is due this money and for me to fairly tell 
Nationwide to reissue his cheque I have  to be able to discount  a number of possibilities. 
Specifically, I would need to be satisfied on the balance  of probabilities that this cheque 
hadnt been cashed, replaced or written off by D.
With that in mind, the first issue Ive considered is whether this cheque was cashed by Mr G. 
Hes stated from the outset of this complaint that he hasnt  cashed the cheque.  He says hes 
Ref: DRN33796254still in possession of it. And, having seen a photograph of the actual cheque,  Im satisfied 
that his assertion here is correct. It follows  that Im satisfied the cheque hasnt been cashed  
at any point prior to Mr G finding and approaching Nationwide  in 2017. So, Im able to 
discount this possibility.
Ive gone on to consider whether this cheque was reissued or written off by D. Of relevance 
here is the fact that D merged with Nationwide  in 2009. Any accounts  that were  open at that 
time were migrated onto Nationwides  systems  following its acquisition of D. Nationwide says 
the letter Mr G received with his cheque stated that his account was closed in 2002. So his 
account wasnt open at the time of Nationwides merger with D.
Nationwide feels that because Mr Gs cheque was issued by D seven years prior to the 
merger taking place  it wouldnt have expected information about his account to transfer over 
to its system. So, this is why it says it isnt able to provide our service  with any statements for 
the account that Mr G held with D. But our adjudicator thinks  Nationwide  ought to have had 
balance sheets and ledgers from before and after its merger with D. And they feel 
Nationwide should  be able to access records from 2002 onwards to confirm  whether this 
cheque was reissued or written off. 
Having thought carefully about both sides of this argument, Im not persuaded that expecting  
Nationwide to have  records from 2002  is a fair or reasonable expectation. I say this because 
Nationwide would only be required  to have  six years worth of records.  So when it merged 
with D in 2009 I would only expect it to have acquired records from 2003  onwards, which  is 
one year outside the time when this cheque was issued to Mr G. With this in mind, it isnt fair 
for me to say that Nationwide  should  demonstrate that this cheque  wasnt  written  off or 
reissued when theres no obligation on it to have records  to do so.
Mr G maintains that he hasnt received a replacement of this cheque. But he isnt able to 
comment on whether D wrote it off as this isnt something he would necessarily  have been  
aware of. When the cheque was issued to him D would have debited  £100 from his account.  
This amount would have been  credited to Ds internal or suspense account  and this could 
only be proven by considering records created by D. Ive already  outlined why I think  its 
reasonable for Nationwide  not to have records dating back  to 2002  to enable it to check 
whether the cheque was reissued or written  off by D. So Nationwide isnt able to say whether 
or not the cheque was reissued or written off. In the absence of that evidence, Im not 
persuaded that I can fairly to discount the possibility  that this cheque may well have  been  
reissued or written off by D. It follows that it wouldnt be fair for me to tell Nationwide  to 
reissue this cheque. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint. 
Ill wait to hear from both parties by 29 July 2019  before issuing my final decision on the 
matter.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3379625