K821x#15complaint
Ms B has complained about  two loans she took out through a company  called  Uncle Buck 
Finance LLP. (Uncle Buck). 
Ms B says Uncle Buck lent to her irresponsibly because proper checks about her financial 
situation werent carried out and she already had quite  a few other short-term loans 
outstanding at the time. She says being irresponsibly lent money in this way went on to 
cause her financial problems.
background
The complaint relates  to two loans from Uncle Buck as set out below.  
 
Loan Sequence Amount Interest & 
Charges paidInstalments Due for
1.23/03.2018 £500 £331.49 4 instalments  @ 3 x 
£209 pcm;  1 x £202
2.30/08/2018 £750 Nil (Outstanding)
6 instalments  
@ 5 x £242  pcm, 1 x 
£224
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld.  
Uncle Buck  didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Ms Bs 
complaint.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Ms B could repay the loan she was given in a sustainable  manner.  These checks  ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  fairly and reasonably done more  to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN33317822the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Uncle  Buck was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loan, not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Ms B 
could sustainably make  her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Uncle Buck  told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing  to lend to Ms B, including 
assessing her income, expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out a 
credit check  to assess her creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that Ms B 
would be able to make the loan repayments she was committing  to.  
Ive looked very carefully at everything Uncle Buck has sent to us, but Im afraid  I dont agree 
that its lending  in this case was sustainable  for Ms B. 
Our experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty  managing 
their money are less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan.  For Ms Bs situation,  Ive 
considered what  Uncle  Buck  told us it would have seen from its own checks. These clearly 
showed, in my view,  that Ms B already had short-term loans outstanding with other 
provider(s) at the same time as making the application for her first loan with Uncle Buck.  
Ive thought about this and whether it would have been obvious enough that Ms B was 
having difficulties  in managing her money. And I think  that having other short-term loans  in 
this case there were three  such loans outstanding  would have shown that Ms B was 
having financial trouble. For example, the monthly repayments on these outstanding loans 
totalled almost £1,000.  Thats a substantial part of Ms Bs stated income without considering 
any other expenses she might have had.
With all this information, resulting from its own checks, I dont I think Uncle Buck ought to 
have lent her the money for the first loan. I dont  think it was responsible  to do so.
I went on to consider the second loan Ms B was given  by Uncle Buck  a few months  later. I 
note that by this stage,  the checks carried out by Uncle Buck  may well have  suggested that 
no other short-term loans were outstanding at the time of her second application. Uncle Buck  
sent us documentation which shows this. The documentation also shows, however, that 
Ms B had continued  to rely on short  term lending  since first borrowing from Uncle Buck   
shed taken out two short term loans in the last three months and one the previous month.  
Again, she repaid almost £1,000 the month before, and although some of this might have 
been to repay Uncle Bucks first loan, I think the lender ought to have been concerned about 
Ref: DRN33317823whether or not Ms B would be able to meet her repayments for further credit in a sustainable 
manner.
And as Ive said above, Uncle  Buck  should  have already known  of the financial difficulties  
Ms B was probably having in managing  her money and I think the checks it should have 
carried out for this second loan ought to have been  more proportionate, and therefore more  
comprehensive. Such checks would likely have supported what it already knew i.e. that Ms B 
was continuing  to rely on short-term lending and in the period directly before  taking  this 
second loan out. Ms B had again paid a significant  sum to short-term loan providers. Her 
bank statements showed she was making payments to two debt collection  agencies and that 
she was having  problems managing her money  throughout  2018.
So I think any proportionate  assessment  of her financial situation would have shown  that she 
shouldnt have been given the second  loan either. I dont think it was responsible  to do so.
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have lent her the money  for either of these loans and thats  why Im 
upholding Ms Bs complaint.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Ms B, Uncle Buck should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms B paid on loan 1; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 and treat any payments 
Ms B made towards this loan as payments towards the capital;
if reworking Ms Bs loan 2 account  as Ive directed results  in Ms B effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then Uncle  Buck should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date of settlement;
If reworking Ms Bs loan 2 account  leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Uncle Buck can use the total refund for loan 1 to offset this. And if there is still an 
outstanding capital balance then I would  remind  Uncle  Buck that it should take a 
sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms B for 
the remaining  capital.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Ms Bs credit file in relation to loans 1 
and 2.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck  to take off tax from this interest. It must give Ms B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Bs complaint and I direct  Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to put things right for Ms B 
as set out above. 
Ref: DRN33317824Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3331782