K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  about  Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
Miss A was involved in a minor accident  with another  car on 4 October 2016, which she said 
wasnt her fault. She said she didnt  report it to Advantage nor did she make  a claim.
On 12 October 2016, the other  driver  claimed against Advantage and said Miss A was at 
fault. On that same  date, Advantage sent Miss A an Accident Report Form  asking her to 
complete and return it to help us with our liability investigations. Advantage have accepted  
that they had the incorrect address for Miss A. Miss A said she never received that letter and 
form, nor was she contacted by Advantage by either phone  or email to tell her a claim had 
been made against her policy and to ask for her version of events. As a result,  Advantage 
didnt have Miss As version of events.  Advantage settled  the other drivers claim in March 
2017.
When Miss A got her renewal invitation  from Advantage in May 2017, she saw that her 
premium had increased very substantially, so she contacted Advantage. It was then she 
found out that Advantage had settled the claim by accepting fault on her behalf for the 
accident. The fault claim had affected  her no claims bonus. Miss A wasnt happy so she 
complained. Advantage upheld her complaint by accepting they sent the Accident Report 
Form to an incorrect  address and they offered her £100 compensation. But they said the 
renewal premium was correct.
As Miss A wasnt  happy with Advantages decision,  she brought her complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He felt that Advantage acted fairly. But as 
Miss A didnt agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 27 March 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  if Advantage have treated Miss A in a fair and 
reasonable way.
settling the other drivers claim
Like most motor insurance  policies,  Miss As policy gives Advantage the discretion to 
settle claims as they feel appropriate. They dont need her permission before doing 
so. But I expect Advantages  decisions  to be fair and reasonable. Especially as 
decisions on settling third party claims can have  serious consequences  for policy  
holders. In Miss As case, settling the claim has resulted  in a fault claim being 
recorded against her insurance record; her no claims  bonus  being affected; and her 
premium going up. This is likely to affect her for some years to come.
I have to look to see if Advantages decision to settle  the claim was fair and 
reasonable, and if they investigated  before making their decision.  Advantage had the 
Ref: DRN33824692other drivers  account of what happened. But they didnt have Miss As version  of 
events. The Accident Report Form Advantage intended to send to Miss A, which 
they have accepted was sent to an incorrect  address, said the purpose of the form 
was to help us with our liability investigations. Looking at the form, it asks for crucial 
information: an explanation of the incident;  details  of any damage to any of the 
vehicles; a diagram  of the damage  and scene; details of witnesses;  the availability of 
CCTV; photos; or any other evidence.
In cases like this, its of fundamental  importance that the insurer has at the very least 
the version of events  of their policyholder. And its very important for as much  
information as possible to be gathered at an early stage while the incident is still 
fresh in peoples minds  and other  evidence  is preserved, such  as CCTV which  is 
often deleted within 28 days. So while Advantage sent the Accident Report  Form to 
what they believed  was Miss As correct address on the same day they received the 
claim from the other driver, when  they didnt receive a response  within  a reasonable 
period of time I think  they should have made further  efforts to contact her. They  could 
have called or emailed  Miss A, but they didnt.  So Advantage  settled the claim on the 
basis of the other drivers version of events only. They  should  have got Miss As 
version of events, but they didnt. So I dont  think they investigated the claim fairly  or 
reasonably. Had they done so, it may have been possible with Miss As version of 
events for other vital evidence to be gathered. For example, she may have directed 
them to CCTV, or depending on what she said the cars could have been examined  
by an engineer to see if any evidence lent support to either sides  version. But 
because of Advantages mistake,  Miss A wasnt given the opportunity to put her side 
forward, and I think that has resulted in her detriment. So I intend  to uphold her 
complaint.
I note that Advantage pointed to the policy which says Miss A should  have reported 
the incident to them  even  if she didnt  want to make a claim, but she didnt. While 
thats correct, I dont think that would have led to a different outcome. Often where a 
policyholder reports  an incident without wanting to make a claim, often referred to as 
notification only, insurers advise that they will only be in contact to get full details in 
the event the other party makes a claim. So had that happened in Miss As case, I 
think Advantage would have still sent the Accident  Report Form  to the incorrect 
address and they wouldnt have  received Miss As full account.
I intend to require Advantage to:
Mark all insurance database records as the accident not being Miss As fault. 
Once that is done Advantage  should provide Miss A with a letter  confirming this. 
She can then approach  her insurer(s) from May 2017 onwards explaining the 
fault claim on her record has been removed.  My expectation would be that any 
insurer who charged her an increased  premium  to reflect the fact that she had a 
fault claim and reduced no claims bonus  years, would retrospectively recalculate  
her premium and issue her with a refund if appropriate.
Reinstate her no claims bonus  years.
Pay Miss A £500 compensation given  this matter has been ongoing for almost 
two years and she has experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of her 
subsequent premiums increasing  substantially.
premium increase on renewal in May 2017
Ref: DRN33824693Miss A wasn't happy with the level of the 2017 premium increase. The premium for 
the 2017 renewal  increased significantly when compared to the 2016  premium. When  
setting that renewal premium, Advantage took into consideration a number of factors,  
including the fault claim resulting from Miss As accident. 
Advantage have  given  me information showing  how they calculated Miss As 
premium. Having looked at that, I can see that the renewal premium calculation  was 
in line with Advantages rating guidance (what they base their premiums on). But the 
premium increase was in part due to the accident wrongly being recorded as Miss 
As fault and her no claims  bonus years  wrongly being impacted.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Advantage made no further comments. 
Miss A said she accepted  my findings,  but felt the compensation  should be £1000  to reflect 
her distress  and inconvenience for the time this matter has been going  on for; to factor  in 
phone calls and time she spent dealing with it; and in part for damage to her car.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to Miss As additional comments as follows:
The £500  compensation  did take into account the length of time this matter has been going 
on for. And I took into consideration that Miss A would have spent time and effort in dealing 
with Advantage.  As for the damage  to her car, Miss A could have claimed on her policy  if it 
suffered any damage  as a result of the accident. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to:
Correct all insurance database records showing the accident was not Miss As fault. 
Once that is done Advantage  should provide Miss A with a letter  confirming that. 
Reinstate her no claims bonus  years.
Pay Miss A £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Miss A has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 May 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3382469