K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is that The Brampton Partnership  (Estate Agents) Limited (trading as 
Mortgage Advice Bureau (MAB)) gave unsuitable  mortgage advice and advice  to invest  in 
overseas property.   
MAB is an appointed  representative (AR) of Legal & General  Partnership  Services  Limited
background
In 2006 on the advice  of the AR Mr J re-mortgaged his property.  He  increased the size of 
his existing interest only mortgage by £65,000.  The money raised was used to part fund the 
purchase of three as yet unbuilt  properties  in America and Spain.  The property developer  
failed and the properties were never  built.
The CMC acting for Mr J complained to the firm in November 2018.  The  firm did not 
consider the merits  of the complaint.  It said it had been made  too late.
Mr Js complaint was looked  at by an investigator.  She said there was no evidence that the 
AR gave  Mr J any advice about  the property purchase.  She then went  on to consider the 
mortgage advice  that had been given.  Her view was that the mortgage advice was suitable 
and met the requirements of the Mortgage  Conduct  of Business (MCOB) rule book.
The CMC did not agree.  It made  the following points:
It accepts that there is no evidence that the AR either gave  any advice about the overseas 
property or helped to arrange the purchase of it.  
With respect to the mortgage advice, it said the AR did not consider the risk of the 
repayment vehicle  (the overseas property).   The AR had an obligation  to assess the 
suitability of the repayment  vehicle  but did not do so.  The repayment vehicle was a high risk 
investment and as such was unsuitable for Mr J who was not a high risk investor  but a 
cautious to moderate risk investor.  
The firm did not make any comments in response  to the investigator.  It later confirmed that 
it consented to us looking at the complaint notwithstanding its earlier arguments about the 
complaint being  made too late.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for essentially the same reasons.
The investigators view was that there was no evidence to suggest  that Mr J had been given 
advice about the property  purchase.  
Mr J purchased three off plan properties.   These have been described  by the CMC  as UCIS.  
Whether a property development is considered to be a UCIS will depend on the 
circumstances of the individual case.  Reference  has been made to Harlequin which was a 
property development  scheme at various  locations in the Caribbean.  Whilst investors  owned  
their individual properties, the resort  on which they were sited  was managed as a whole and 
Ref: DRN31101452they did not have day to control.  For these reasons Harlequin schemes  are classified as 
collective investment schemes  (CIS).  It does not follow that all overseas  off plan property 
developments are CIS.  Nothing  has been  presented about the overseas property schemes 
that suggests they were in fact CIS.
Was Mr J advised to make the property  purchases?
Mr J says he spoke to a mortgage  broker who was connected to the promoter  of the property 
schemes he were thinking of investing  in.  He  was unsure about the advice received and the 
costs and so decided to get advice from an adviser unconnected to the promoter of the 
scheme.  
His version of events is as follows:  
Having fully explained the proposition that had been  outlined  {the ARr} confirmed the 
proposition and confirmed it was a good  idea to raise the extra  £65,000 to invest  in overseas 
property.  Given his assurances I agreed to proceed.
I incurred fees from {the AR} for the services they provided when they provided confirmation 
advice of the plan with regard to the type of mortgage and the method of repayment which  
was to initially purchase the overseas  property  and the sale of the overseas  property  to 
repay the  overseas property mortgage  any my residential mortgage.
So Mr Js version of events is that the advice given encompassed both the suitability of the 
mortgage and the repayment vehicle.  He says the advice given was that the overseas 
properties were a suitable repayment  vehicle for him.  
However, there is no documentary evidence that supports Mr Js version of events.  There  is 
however, documentary evidence from the time of the advice that contradicts his version of 
events.
The detail of the advice that was given was set out in the suitability report provided  to Mr J 
dated 27 March  2006.  In  respect of the endowments held by Mr J it said: 
With-Profits Endowment
Note: I have not provided advice regarding the potential returns  from these  provisions or the 
level of guarantee  they may offer. If you are unsure, you should seek independent advice.
The report  went on to say:
You indicated  that you are not concerned about  having any form of guarantee that your 
mortgage is repaid  at the end of the mortgage  term. I have therefore recommended  a 
repayment method  of interest only, where  you will pay only the interest  charged  by the 
lender and none of the original amount  borrowed.  You have advised that the amount you 
originally borrowed will be repaid  by a combination of an existing  endowment policy for
£75,000 which matures in 8 years time and periodic lump sums which you intend  to repay 
over the term of the mortgage.
Please note that I am unable  to advise you on the endowment policy  arrangement and the 
extent to which it is likely to pay any given  amount  on maturity. If you are unsure about the 
level of guarantee  your existing investment offers, you should seek  independent advice 
before placing  reliance on it to repay all or part of your mortgage.
Ref: DRN31101453So the documentary  evidence from the time of the advice contradicts Mr Js version  of 
events. 
The disputed advice  was given in 2006  so some considerable time ago.  Recollections 
from such a long time ago need to be treated with caution.  In this case  I consider that the 
version of events recorded in the suitability  report, which was completed around the time of 
the advice, is the more  reliable.
Therefore my conclusion  is that Mr J was given no advice either about his endowment  policy 
or the overseas property purchase.
The mortgage  advice
The standards under which the adviser was required to operate  when giving mortgage 
advice are set out in the Mortgage  Conduct of Business  Sourcebook (MCOB) that applied  
at the time
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage contract  was suitable if the following three tests 
were met:
The consumer could  afford to enter into the contract.
The contract was appropriate  for the needs  and circumstances  of the customer.
The contract was the most suitable of those that the firm had available  to it.
MCOB 4.7.8G  also says that a firm was generally entitled to rely on information  provided by 
a consumer unless  it had reason to doubt  it.  
Based on the information the AR obtained  about  Mr J I am satisfied that the recommended 
mortgage was suitable.  Mr J had a significant monthly income  and the increased interest 
payments were affordable.  Mr J was not concerned  about having a guaranteed  repayment 
vehicle and was happy to rely on his existing endowment  and periodic capital repayments.  .
In addition, as set out in MCOB 4.7.12G there was no requirement  on the firm to give 
investment advice about the endowment policy.  There  was also no obligation to give any 
advice about the suitability of the overseas property purchase as a repayment vehicle.  This 
question is in any event  academic as the adviser was unaware  that this was Mr Js intention.  
So my conclusions are that the mortgage advice  given  by the AR was suitable  and that no 
advice about the overseas property investment was given.
The CMC has referred  to another decision made by this service as well as the court  case  of 
Emptage v FSCS.  However, I am required to reach  a decision based on what I consider to 
be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case.  Each case is determined  on the 
basis of its own individual  facts.  In the case of Emptage the mortgage adviser also gave 
advice about a property purchase  which is not the situation in this case.   In this case Mr J 
disclosed a repayment  strategy which didnt involve  overseas property.      
So my conclusions are that the mortgage advice  given  by the AR was suitable  and that no 
advice about the overseas property investment was given.
Ref: DRN31101454my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110145