K821x#15complaint
Ms H says CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 14 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Ms H between  March 2011  
and October 2015.  There was a significant  gap in the borrowing between  the third and fourth  
loans. The amounts Ms H borrowed ranged  between £50 and £250. Several loans had 
numerous top ups. From what I can see, Ms H repaid all her loans. 
Quick Quid objected to us considering Ms Hs first three loans as it said she brought  her 
complaint about  them  more than six years after they were taken. But our adjudicator  
explained that Ms H had brought  her complaint about these loans within three  years  of when 
she should reasonably have known  she had reason to complain about them. Quick Quid 
didnt raise any further objections on this matter,  so I dont need  its consent to consider 
these loans here. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Hs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan eight 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN33503342I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Ms H could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Hs complaint.
Quick Quid asked Ms H for information about  her income for all her loans. She said this was 
£653 for loan 1 and £980 for loans 13 and 14. Quick Quid also asked for her expenditure for 
loan 13 and it carried out credit checks.  
I think Quick Quid should have made better  checks for loan seven.  But from the evidence 
available, I cant say these checks for loans one to seven showed that Ms H couldnt afford 
to make her loan repayments sustainably. So I cant say it was wrong for Quick  Quid to have 
approved loans one to seven. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending  history with Ms H, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Quick  Quid should reasonably have  seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Hs case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan eight. I say this because:
By loan eight, Ms H had been borrowing for seven months since loan four, the start of a 
new chain of borrowing. 
From  loan eight onwards Ms H was provided with a new loan within a short time of 
settling a previous  one. So Quick  Quid ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Ms H was having  to borrow  further to cover the hole repaying  her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Ms Hs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms H wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Quick Quid. Loan 14 was 
taken out almost three years  after loan eight. So Ms H had paid large amounts of interest  
to, in effect, service  a debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think this suggests  that Ms H was having  problems  managing her finances. Her pattern of 
borrowing suggests that she wasnt using short-term lending  as it was intended. I dont think 
Ms H could sustainably  repay  her loans from loan eight onwards. 
Ref: DRN33503343I think that Ms H lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan eight  
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans and deferrals  was likely to have had negative  implications on Ms Hs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 8 to 14 and Quick  Quid  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms H paid on loans 8 to 14;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the sheer number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So all entries  about loans 8 to 14 should be 
removed from Ms Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Hs 
complaint. I require CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick  Quid) to pay Ms H 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3350334