K822xcomplaint
Mr T says Elevate  Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint is brought  to this service  on Mr Ts behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr T.
background 
This complaint is about nine short term loans Sunny provided to Mr T between July 2017 
and February 2018. The loans were  repayable by six monthly  instalments. All the loans have 
been repaid. Mr Ts borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 21/7/17 3/11/17 £500
2. 28/7/17 3/11/17 £100
3. 5/8/17 3/11/17 £50
4. 19/9/17 3/11/17 £50
5. 28/12/17 10/3/18 £200
6. 30/12/17 10/3/19 £100
7. 31/12/17 26/1/18 £200
8. 8/1/18 10/3/18 £100
9. 11/2/18 10/3/18 £200
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that 
Loans 4 to 9 shouldnt have been given to Mr T. By Loan 4 Mr T had three  other outstanding 
loans with Sunny.  And the lender ought to have been alerted to the possibility that Mr T 
might have problems  managing his money. The adjudicator also said that Sunny ought to 
have realised that Mr T wouldnt have been able to sustainably repay  Loan  4 and 
subsequent loans. And by Loan  6 the overall pattern  of borrowing suggested  that Mr T was 
persistently reliant  on short term loans.  
Sunny disagreed and responded to say that there was a break in lending between Loans  4 
and 5. Mr T had at least £160  disposable  income each month including  all of Sunnys loans 
and Mr Ts other credit commitments. And Mr T had repaid his loans early.  Sunny also said 
that it allowed  consumers  to take up to four loans with it at any one time subject to an 
affordability and creditworthiness assessment. All Mr Ts loan repayments were  deemed 
affordable and sustainable  based  on the income  and expenditure amounts provided  by Mr T 
and the additional credit commitments seen on Mr Ts credit file. Sunny had checked the 
amount of Mr Ts declared credit commitments against the credit reference agency  data and 
used the higher of the two figures. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to Sunny on 17 February 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr T the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN36350242I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr T could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ts complaint.
Id noted that Sunny  had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr T. It had asked him 
for details  of his income and expenditure. Mr Ts declared income for all the loans was 
£1,450. Sunny had shown Mr Ts total expenditure in its Loan Datasheet as between  £858 
and £1,277 for Loans 1 to 9. As Sunny  had told us that Mr T had at least £160 disposable 
income each month having taken into account all his credit commitments from Sunny and 
other lenders, it appeared that the total expenditure amounts shown in Sunnys Loan  
Datasheet had included both Sunnys and other lenders credit  commitments.
Sunny had also said that it had checked Mr Ts credit file before agreeing to the loans. It 
hadnt provided us with the results of its credit checks. So I couldnt  say there were any 
Ref: DRN36350243adverse matters on its checks that should  have caused it additional  concerns. But it did note 
that Mr T wasnt  bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement  or in a debt management 
plan at the time he took out the loans. 
Wed received a credit  report  from Mr T. I could see there were  other  short term loans on the 
report. But I was also aware that when a lender carried  out a credit search, the information  it 
saw didnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and 
it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small portion of a borrowers credit 
file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that not all payday and 
short term lenders  reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So this might  have  
explained any differences between the information provided by Sunnys credit checks  and 
Mr Ts actual  situation.
Mr T had needed to make total loan repayments  of around £145  to £193 to Sunny for 
Loans 1 to 3. Loans 1 and 2 were still outstanding when  hed taken  out Loan 3. I thought  the 
total monthly repayment amounts for all three  loans  would  have  appeared relatively modest 
compared to Mr Ts declared  income. And although  Mr T had up to three  outstanding  loans  
with Sunny, I didnt  think the repayment amounts on Loans 1 to 3 were so large that it was 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr T financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ts repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would be needed to show Loans  1 to 3 
were unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr T had provided before Loans  1 to 3 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 3 to 
Mr T. 
But by the time Mr T had applied for Loan 4 Sunny would have been  aware  that hed had 
some difficulty making his repayments on Loans 1 and 3. Mr Ts first repayment on Loan 1 
was paid four days late and his second  repayment  was made 15 days  after the due date. On 
Loan 3, Mr Ts first repayment was made 11 days late. I thought that behaviour might have 
caused Sunny serious concerns about  Mr Ts finances. And even though  Loan  4 was for 
£50, he still had his first three loans with Sunny outstanding. 
I appreciated that Sunny had asked Mr T for his income and expenditure. And Id noted that 
Mr Ts credit commitments were shown as £368 and his disposable income was £369. But I 
thought Mr Ts erratic repayment  history and the pattern and increasing amount of his 
borrowing with repayments  over six months  were such  that it wasnt  reasonable for Sunny to 
have relied on that information. So I thought  this should have prompted Sunny to do some 
additional checks such as asking Mr T for more information about  his other short  term 
borrowing commitments.
Had it done so, Sunny would have discovered that Mr T had three short term loans  with 
other lenders totalling £1,305 which together with Loans 1 to 3 would be payable at the 
same time as Loan 4. Id seen  these  other  loans  on Mr Ts credit  report.  I thought it would 
have been clear to Sunny  if it had done proportionate checks  that Mr T was facing significant 
problems managing his money  and unlikely to be able to repay  Loan 4 in a sustainable  
manner. So I didnt  think it was reasonable for Sunny  to give Loan  4 to Mr T.
Ref: DRN36350244Loans 1 to 4 had been repaid when Mr T borrowed Loan 5. Mr T had paid a repayment on 
Loan 4 late by three days. But hed also repaid Loan  4 and his other three  loans before their 
due date. I thought the missed repayments  and then the early  repayment of the loans should 
have caused some concerns to Sunny. That might be the sort of behaviour  that would have 
indicated that someone was facing problems managing their money. So Id taken that into 
account when  looking at whether Sunny should have given Loan 5 to Mr T.
Id noted that Sunny  had said there was a break in lending between the repayment of 
Loans 1 to 4 and Mr T taking out Loan  5. But Id noted that the gap was around eight weeks  
and I didnt think it was reasonable  for Sunny to have seen this gap as an indication  that 
Mr Ts finances  had moved  on from whatever situation had required his previous  loans.  
Loan 5 was for £200 which was higher than his previous three  loans and was Mr Ts fifth 
loan in around five months. I thought Sunny might have been  concerned  that Mr T was 
becoming reliant on its loans. So I thought all this should have prompted Sunny  to do some  
additional checks such as asking Mr T for more information about  his other short  term 
borrowing. 
Id looked at Mr Ts credit report  and couldnt  see that he had any other  short term loans at 
that time.  So I couldnt say that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks, it would have 
found that Mr T couldnt afford to repay  Loan  5 sustainably. 
Mr T had taken  out Loan 6 just two days after taking  out Loan 5. Loan 5 was still 
outstanding. The new loan was for the lower amount  of £100. But I thought Sunny should 
still have been  concerned  that Loan 6 was Mr Ts second loan in two days and his sixth loan 
in around five months. For the same  reasons  as Id noted above for Loan 5, I again thought 
Sunny should  have  been prompted to do some additional checks  such as gathering 
information about Mr Ts other short term loans. 
Id looked at Mr Ts credit report  to see what proportionate checks might  have shown.  Id 
seen one other short term loan for £250  repayable at the same time as Loans 5 and 6 on the 
credit report.  Overall, I didnt think that if Sunny had completed sufficient checks,  it would 
have found that Mr T couldnt afford  to repay  Loan  6 sustainably. So I couldnt say that 
Sunny was wrong to give Loan  6 to Mr T. 
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr T to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ts case,  I thought that point had been reached by 
Loan 7. I said this because:
Loan 7 was Mr Ts third loan in three days  and his seventh loan in just over five 
months. The new loan was for the higher amount of £200.  Loan 7 and
Mr Ts previous loans (except Loans  1 and 5) had been taken out whilst Mr T still had 
at least one other loan outstanding with Sunny. By Loan 7 I thought  the pattern of 
missed repayments and frequent borrowing and repaying early should  have indicated 
to Sunny that Mr T was most likely  having  significant problems managing  his money.
Ref: DRN36350245Mr T wasnt making any real inroads to the amounts he owed Sunny. Loan  7 was for 
an amount higher  than his previous five loans. And Mr T had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
Sunny  ought  to have realised that Mr T wasnt likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Mr T went  on to take out another  
two loans. Loan 8 was taken out whilst Loans  5 to 7 remained to be paid. Loan 9 was taken 
out whilst  Loans  5 to 7 still remained to be paid. I thought that Mr T lost out because Sunny 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  7 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ts indebtedness  by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ts ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
The fact that all of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr T undue difficulty.  
Id noted that Sunny  had said that the repayments  were deemed affordable and sustainable  
based on Mr Ts declared income and expenditure and his other credit commitments.  But I 
thought Sunny would  (or ought to) know from previous decisions (as well as what  was set 
out on our website)  that there were cases where  this service considered the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  And there would  be times when the pattern 
of lending alone was enough to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty 
 or would otherwise be harmed should relending have  continued.  
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr T or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Sunny to:
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr T paid on Loans 4 and 7 to 9 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 4 from Mr Ts credit file;
Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 9 from Mr Ts credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN36350246Mr T didnt  provide a response too my provisional decision.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision at length. It said,  in summary:
Loan 4
Sunny referred  to my statement that Mr T was facing significant  problems managing  his
money when he applied for Loan 4. It said that it had no evidence that Mr T was having 
difficulty making his repayments on Loans  1 and 3. Its records showed that the reason  for 
his late repayments  was due to Mr T not setting up the correct payment  date when hed 
applied to it. When he was late with one of his repayments for Loan 3, he told the lender this 
was because his payday had changed again.  It had no reason to conclude  this was 
incorrect. 
Sunny also said that on the date Mr T applied for Loan 4, and based on the credit reference  
agency data it used, it wouldnt have approved his application if he was still repaying three 
short term loans with other lenders along with his three Sunny loans.
When Mr T applied for Loan 4, Sunny based  its affordability calculations on the basis  that his 
total monthly credit commitments were £368  and his monthly disposable  income was 
calculated to be £451 (not £369  as Id set out in my decision).  As such,  it calculated  that he 
had more than sufficient income  to make the monthly repayments of £14.56 sustainably  over 
the term of that loan.
Early repayment  of Sunny loans 
Sunny said that whilst repeatedly repaying  early  might be indicative  that someone might  be 
facing problems managing their money,  without other evidence to support this, it wasnt  
automatically the case in every customers circumstances.
Overall pattern of lending  from Loan  7
Sunny said that the fact that Mr T had been  granted seven loans over a period of five 
months didnt of itself demonstrate harm or that further loans would be unsustainable.  Whilst 
repeat lending was one factor to consider  which could indicate that someone might
have been experiencing  difficulties and that further  lending to them might be unsustainable, 
it wasnt automatically the case in the absence of other factors. 
Ongoing need
Sunny noted that Id said that it should have realised  Mr T wasnt  borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall but to meet an ongoing  need.  But Sunny said that by the time hed 
applied for Loan  7, Mr T had been borrowing from it for just over five months. It said that it 
was unclear how I had established that within this timeframe, Mr T had an ongoing  need  for 
credit, particularly as the FCAs definition of high cost short  term credit in CONC 
contemplated that short term credit could include repayments under an agreement  up to a 
period of twelve months.
Effect on credit  rating
Ref: DRN36350247Sunny said that it was incorrect for this service  to assume that the number of loans granted 
by it alone, in the absence  of any other factors  or evidence, necessarily impaired Mr Ts 
ability to access mainstream credit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Sunny has said in response  to my provisional 
decision. Ive dealt with its main  points below.
Loan 4
Sunnys records show  that Mr T had missed his first payment on Loan  1 by four days  and 
hed missed his second  payment on Loan  2 by 15 days. Mr T then paid his first payment on 
Loan 3 of just £16.60 eleven  days late. I note that Mr T gave  Sunny various reasons for his 
missed payments. But I think that these late payments (and especially the delayed  payment 
of a relatively small amount on Loan  3) might have  suggested that Mr T was having 
difficulties managing his money  and should have caused Sunny additional concerns.
Sunny also said that on the date Mr T applied for Loan 4, and based on the credit reference  
agency data it used, it wouldnt have approved his application if he was still repaying three 
short term loans with other lenders along with his three Sunny loans. But Sunny hadnt 
provided us with the detailed results of its credit  checks  so I dont know what  it would have 
seen on its credit check. And as Ive said above,  Im also aware that not all lenders reported  
to all credit  reference agencies. I also note that Sunny asked Mr T for his credit 
commitments. I cant be sure that he would have understood from this that he had to tell it 
about his short term loans. 
I also note that Sunny  said that it had based  its affordability calculations on Mr Ts total 
monthly credit commitments  of £368 and his monthly disposable income  was calculated to 
be £451 (not £369 as Id set out in my decision). But Ive checked Sunnys Loan Datasheet 
received by this service  on 28 May 2019  and this showed that Mr Ts monthly income was 
£1,450 and his total expenditure  was £1,081. So it still appears that his disposable income 
was £369. 
Sunny also said that Mr T had more than sufficient income to make  the monthly repayments 
of £14.56 sustainably over the term of that loan. But as Ive said above,  Sunny  was required 
to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  and not just determine  whether 
the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Early repayment  of Sunny loans 
I think that a borrower  repaying some loans early  isnt necessarily a positive indication that 
his finances are healthy. It may also be the sort of behaviour that would indicate that 
someone was facing problems managing their money and needed to refinance loans on a 
regular basis. So I took this behaviour into account  when looking at whether Sunny should 
have granted  its loans.  
Ref: DRN36350248Overall pattern of lending  from Loan  7
Sunny said that the fact that Mr T had been  granted seven loans over a period of five 
months didnt of itself demonstrate harm or that further loans would be unsustainable.  But I 
still think its reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point is at Loan  7 in this 
case. By then, Mr T had taken out seven loans in over five months,  and Loan 7 was his third 
loan in three days. Mr T hadnt even started to repay Loans 5 and 6 when he took out 
Loan 7.  
Ongoing need
The purpose of short term loans was set out in guidance from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) (Section 6.25 referenced  by CONC Section 6.7). They are a short term solution to 
temporary cash flow problems . The FCA defined what is meant  by this short term solution 
(credit due to be repaid  or substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it 
doesnt define what is meant by a temporary cash flow problem. Its reasonable to consider 
that this could mean different things  for different consumers depending on their 
circumstances. And in this case, I think by the time Mr T asked for Loan  7 he wasnt  likely to 
have been borrowing to solve a short term problem but rather to meet  an ongoing  need.
Effect on credit  rating
Im not concluding that Mr T was unable  to access any form of mainstream credit  because of 
Sunnys loans. But I think  that borrowing  from Sunny  potentially limited his access to 
mainstream credit as the number of loans he borrowed was likely  to have been viewed  
negatively by other lenders. And so there  was a risk that agreeing  further credit at this point 
would cause harm. It may also be the case that Mr T might have been  treated unfairly by 
other lenders. But this complaint is against Sunny and so its actions or omissions are the 
focus of my decision.  
Considering everything, I still think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with the way Ive reached my view. In this decision Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final 
decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr T paid on Loans 4 and 7 to 9 and pay interest 
of 8% simple a year on such  refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 4 from Mr Ts credit file; and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 9 from Mr Ts credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN36350249Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635024