K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that Ambant Underwriting  Services Limited (Ambant)  has acted 
unreasonably in changing the terms and conditions of a policy hed had with it since  2011.  
References to Ambant include its representatives.
background 
Mr W had a new boiler installed on 24 April 2007. He took out a policy with Ambant on or 
around March 2011. This stated that if within 12 years of its installation  his boiler broke down  
and couldnt be fixed, hed be provided with a new one free of charge. This was subject to 
the condition that he continued to pay his monthly fees, which  he has done.
Mr W continued to insure  his boiler with Ambant. But on 6 December 2016, Ambant wrote to 
him to tell him that it was changing its terms and conditions and that instead of the 
replacement guarantee being  for 12 years, it would thereafter only be for 10 years.  So Mr 
Ws guarantee of a free replacement  boiler would end on 23 April 2017 instead  of 23 April 
2019.
Mr W complained  to Ambant on 23 December 2016.  He explained  that having previously 
been insured by another company,  hed been  induced to take out his policy with Ambant by 
the reassurance  of the 12 year replacement guarantee.  He says he remained loyal to 
Ambant, and did not seek cover elsewhere at a possibly lower price, principally because  of 
the promise of a replacement boiler if his boiler needed replacement within 12 year. He feels 
that in unilaterally  reducing this period, Ambant is breaching its contract  with him.
In response, Ambant  wrote to Mr W on 23 December  2016 in the following terms:
As agreed in our telephone call of 23rd December  2016 we have upheld your 
complaint regarding the paperwork  you have  received stating you have a ten year 
boiler replacement  and can confirm we would  honour the twelve year replacement you 
received in your original  paperwork.
Mr W therefore believed that the guarantee would continue to cover him until April 2019 and 
he continued to pay his monthly  premiums to Ambant.
Ambant wrote to Mr W again on 5 December 2017 with his renewal documents  for the 
following year. The documents  again referred  to the boiler replacement  service only covering 
boilers up to 10 years  old. Mr W didnt raise this with Ambant as hed received Ambants 
letter of 23 December 2016, and so assumed that Ambant  would  continue  to honour the 
original 12 year guarantee.  
In December 2018, Mr W received his renewal documents  for the following  year,  and these 
again referred to the 10 year replacement guarantee.  He thought  it would be prudent  to 
remind Ambant about their previous correspondence so he phoned Ambant on 18 December 
2018. He was told that his policy no longer  covered him for a free replacement  boiler  as it 
was more than 10 years old. On 19 December 2018, Mr W wrote  to Ambant and referred  it 
to its previous letter of 23 December  2016.
Ambant replied on 23 January 2019. This letter stated that the letter of 23 December 2016 
referred to confirmation  that his guarantee was limited to the following policy year,  namely 
Ref: DRN30861902until 27 December 2017. Mr W pointed out that this was incorrect. He was then told that 
Ambants representative  had been wrong  to write as he had done. As the fact that its 
representative had been wrong  had not been  mentioned in its previous response to him, 
Ambant accepted that this was an omission and he was offered £50 compensation for 
Ambants failure to meet his expectations,  which he accepted. Ambant continued to maintain 
that the 12 year replacement guarantee period  no longer  applied.
Mr W maintains  that he had been,  and continued  to be, disadvantaged by what he believes 
to be Ambants unfair and dishonest treatment  of him. He says that had he known that 
Ambant would arbitrarily  and unilaterally  remove or reduce the boiler replacement period that 
had induced him to switch  to Ambant from his original insurer, its most unlikely that hed 
have switched. He also says that had he not stayed with Ambant because of this benefit, 
and paid increasing monthly  premiums, he mightve  saved money by seeking  insurance 
elsewhere.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigators view was that Ambant had 
acted unfairly and should honour the original 12 year replacement  guarantee. She 
considered that the £50 compensation offered by Ambant was an appropriate amount. 
On 2 April 2019,  in response  to our investigators  view, Ambant said it didnt agree with it, 
but said that its records from its website showed  that Mr Ws boiler  had been  installed  on 1 
April 2007. So whether or not Ambant agreed with a 12 years  replacement period, that 
period had now passed.
Mr W then provided  evidence  that his boiler  had in fact been installed  later,  on 24 April 2007.
Ambant has subsequently confirmed that it will honour the 12 year guarantee period, which  
was Mr Ws main source of complaint.
But Mr W is unhappy with the £50 compensation. He argues that this was offered  by Ambant 
in relation to the failure to mention  that its representative had made an error  in his letter of 23 
December 2016  where he stated that the guarantee period would continue to be for 12 
months, when he should  have  said it would  last only until the next renewal  date ie 27 
December 2017.  The £50 compensation didnt cover the underlying  unilateral change  in the 
contract terms. Mr W asks for some recognition for all the time,  trouble and anxiety  he has 
had in getting Ambant to acknowledge  that they should honour  their original, and 
subsequently confirmed, undertaking. He has asked that his complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so the matters been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mr Ws complaint but 
Im not going  to ask Ambant to do anything  more, and Ill explain why not.
In my opinion, whilst Mr W had a good  argument for challenging Ambants decision to 
change the terms  of its policy, he did so as a matter of principle. His boiler  didnt need  to be 
replaced at the time he raised  his complaint against  Ambant, nor at any point  during  the 
original 12 year guarantee period  which, on the basis of information  provided by Mr W, 
wouldve ended on 23 April 2019. 
Ref: DRN30861903If it had been necessary  for Mr W to have made a claim under the guarantee, the position  
wouldve been different. Mr W would potentially have suffered financial loss if Ambant had 
rejected any claim he made  under the guarantee because the boiler  was over 10 years old 
at the time of the claim  rather than over 12 years old. In these circumstances his financial 
loss wouldve been measurable and his trouble and upset understandably  greater.
As it is, Ambant has accepted Mr Ws argument  that his guarantee should last for the original 
term of 12 years, although this is now irrelevant as that term has now passed. So Ambant 
has satisfied Mr Ws primary  complaint.  I dont think that compensation is appropriate for 
Ambant changing  its terms  and conditions when no loss has flowed from this as it could be 
regarded as punitive. The compensation payments this service requires businesses  to make 
are not intended  to punish but to reflect the fact that the impact of a businesss actions can 
be greater than just a minor inconvenience  and upset.
I accept that Mr W sustained some inconvenience and upset in having to argue again with 
Ambant about  the expiry  date of his guarantee when  he assumed the matter had been  
addressed by Ambants  letter of 23 December  2016.  But when Mr W drew this letter  to 
Ambants attention it rapidly acknowledged  the mistake that had been made and without 
prompting paid him £50 compensation. I consider  this to be a reasonable amount in 
circumstances where  Mr W hasnt  suffered  any financial loss, but rather a degree  of upset 
and inconvenience  in seeking clarification  from Ambant  as to his position should he need to 
make a claim for a replacement boiler.  Fortunately  that wasnt  necessary.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ws complaint but I dont require Ambant 
Underwriting Services Limited  to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3086190