K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund her for a cash withdrawal she says 
she tried to make at an ATM.  She says the money  didnt  come out of the ATM but was 
shown as being withdrawn on her account.
background
What is said to have  happened in this case is well-known  to both parties. So I dont need to 
repeat the details  here. But the timing of some  things  is quite  important. I hope  both parties 
will accept  the following as a brief summary:
Mrs T went  to use an ATM (provided by Bank 2). She inserted her Barclays  debit card but 
it was immediately  returned by the machine. Mrs T didnt have chance to enter  her PIN or 
select any option about what activity she wanted  to carry out;
She waited for some time to see if her money  came out  but it didnt. So Mrs T checked 
her mobile banking and saw £500  had been  withdrawn;
Mrs T contacted Barclays to find out what had happened  and to get the £500  put back 
into her account;
Barclays checked  its own records (and information from Bank 2) and could see the £500 
withdrawal had been requested using Mrs Ts genuine card and her PIN had been  
entered. So it said it wouldnt refund anything to Mrs T; and
The bank accepts it didnt deal with Mrs Ts complaint  as well as it should  have  done.  It 
seems she was given wrong  information  about timescales  and didnt get calls as 
expected. So Barclays paid Mrs T £50 for the poor service shed received.
Mrs T wasnt happy with Barclays response. So she contacted  us and one of our 
investigators looked into things for her.
Our investigator concluded there  wasnt any reason to ask Barclays to refund the £500  to 
Mrs T. Shed looked at the records from Barclays and Bank  2. These showed the money  had 
been dispensed very soon after Mrs T had put her card into the ATM.  The records also 
showed the number and denomination of notes  issued.
The information also indicated  the ATM was working  correctly  before and after Mrs T had 
used the ATM (as withdrawals were made by other customers using the ATM at the time). 
But the investigator wanted to get the fullest picture possible so she contacted  Bank 2 direct. 
It confirmed there hadnt been any other  complaints about problems with the ATM  around  
this time  and it had balanced at the end of the period in question (albeit this was some 
days later).
Barclays didnt have  any record  of Mrs T using her mobile banking around  the time of the 
disputed withdrawal. But its records did show Mrs T had tried to use another ATM shortly 
afterwards to withdraw money   but these  attempts had been  unsuccessful as the daily limit 
(£500) had already been  reached.
Mrs T didnt  agree with the investigator. She was adamant  she hadnt entered her PIN and 
couldnt understand how the money could have been taken out of her account. So shes  
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint and issue  a final decision on it.
Ref: DRN31792122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mrs T feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what  
shes said to both us and Barclays. And thats  not surprising. She says shes lost £500. 
Thats a lot of money.  So shes bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mrs T that I agree with the investigator  Barclays doesnt have to 
refund the £500 to Mrs T. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what  the investigators 
already told Mrs T. I think the investigator  set out the position  clearly and thoroughly.
Having said that, its important I reassure Mrs T that Ive considered her complaint afresh. So 
Ill set out the main  things that lead me to agree  with the investigator.
what does the available  evidence show?
Ive looked at the information provided by Barclays and Bank 2. This is quite compelling. It 
shows:
Mrs Ts debit card being  inserted into the ATM;
The option to make  a cash withdrawal  (of £500) being selected;
Her PIN being entered; and
The notes being dispensed (less than a minute after the card was inserted).
The information from Barclays  also shows another request for a cash  withdrawal (again for 
£500) being  made a few seconds after the notes  were  dispensed.  But this was declined  as 
the daily limit (of £500) for cash withdrawals had already been reached. It was only after this 
second attempt  to withdraw  cash was made  that Mrs Ts card was returned. This might be 
important  and Ill come back to it later.
The records  also indicate the ATM machine was used a few minutes before Mrs T inserted 
her card and almost immediately  afterwards   it seems by different customers  (as the card 
details are different). Again, this might be important  so Ill come back to it.
Barclays records show that a few minutes  later Mrs T tried to use another ATM (the second  
ATM) in the area to withdraw money. But, as with the earlier second attempt to withdraw 
money, the requests were  declined as the daily limit had been reached.
The information from Bank 2 confirms the ATM balanced when  the period of use ended. This 
was some days after Mrs T says she tried to use the ATM. But this balancing exercise  only 
happens every so often  (probably  when money is loaded into an ATM). And Bank  2 says 
there were no other reports of problems with the ATM during this time.
All of the available evidence points to the £500  being dispensed.  So I cant fairly  ask 
Barclays to refund Mrs T.
Ref: DRN31792123I note Mrs T says she went  onto her mobile  banking shortly after she tried to use the ATM. 
Barclays says it doesnt have any record of her doing this. So I cant  check one way or the 
other. But I think its probably a case of Mrs T simply getting a bit mixed up between  using 
her mobile banking and using  the second  ATM. Thats understandable  in the circumstances  
shes described. 
what might  have happened?
What I say here doesnt change the outcome of Mrs Ts complaint. But the evidence does 
point to what might have happened. So I cover it simply to try and help Mrs T draw a line 
under this matter.
I can see from Barclays records that Mrs T used ATMs on a reasonably  regular basis.  So 
theres no reason  to think she wouldnt be familiar  with how ATMs work. And Im confident  
she would  know what the daily limit for cash withdrawals is. But the timing  of specific  actions  
here is quite interesting.
There is less than a minute between the time Mrs Ts card was inserted in the ATM and the 
notes were dispensed. That seems normal. But the fact that she tried to carry out another 
withdrawal of £500 less than half a minute  after the notes  were  dispensed seems odd.
So I think it is possible that Mrs T might have been  distracted and somebody close to her 
took the notes  without  her realising. That could be where Mrs T thinks  the issue  of her not 
entering her PIN comes from. If she was distracted and then looked back at the ATM  shed 
simply see the screen asking if she wanted  to carry out any other activity. There  wouldnt be 
the need to enter her PIN again.
Mrs T has made  reference to there being other  people being  around the ATM  at the time.  So 
its quite possible somebody deliberately  distracted her in order for the notes to be removed 
by a third party.  And it would fit with another customer  using  the ATM only a few seconds 
after Mrs Ts card was returned.
summary
Im satisfied Mrs T requested and authorised the £500 withdrawal at the ATM. I realise thats  
quite a difficult message  to give. But its where the available evidence  points.
And in reaching  this conclusion Ive considered the requirements of the Payment Service  
Regulations 2017 and guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority   as these set out the 
technical aspects of when a bank can hold a customer responsible  for transactions.
I note Barclays has paid Mrs T £50 for the poor service it gave her when she contacted  the 
bank about the disputed  withdrawal. That seems a fair amount to me.
I realise Mrs T will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings  to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally,  can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Mrs T any more on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.
Ref: DRN31792124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3179212