K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005 and then amended  in 2007.  Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the 
PPI.
background
In 2005 Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Lloyds. At the same  time they were  sold a 
PPI policy. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The mortgage  was in joint names and 
the PPI covered them both against accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. The 
policy benefit was split equally between them.
In 2007 Mr and Mrs B took out a further  advance and the PPI policy  was amended  to cover 
the extra borrowing.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed 
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Lloyds has shown us the mortgage  application  form from 2005.  I can see the form has a 
section about  PPI. And a box has been ticked next to a statement to say that Mr and Mrs B 
wanted to apply for PPI. There was another box to tick if they didnt want to apply for it, but 
this has been  left blank.
Lloyds also has a copy of the original PPI application form which  was signed by both 
Mr and Mrs B. 
There is also a copy of the 2007  PPI form to increase the cover when further borrowing was 
taken and this has been signed by Mr and Mrs B.
Taking everything into account  I think its likely  Mr and Mrs B were made aware  of the PPI 
policy. And I think Lloyds made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs B didnt have  to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although  I can fully understand why they cant  remember this after 
so many years.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us the sale of the policy in 2005 and subsequent  top up in 2007  took 
place in a branch. And Lloyds has told us that its representative shouldve  recommended 
that Mr and Mrs B take out the PPI. In that case Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was 
for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN31788052Mr and Mrs B were  not affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  For 
example, they didnt  have any medical conditions in 2005 that wouldnt have been covered. 
I can see from the 2005 mortgage  application that Mrs B said she was self-employed and 
gave the name of her accountant. So I think she was self employed  at the time. Ive looked 
the policy terms and conditions and I can see the policy covered the self-employed.  Some  
PPI policies make it difficult for a self-employed person to claim  for unemployment.  But Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of the policy Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs B and it looks  like 
Mrs B couldve made such a claim without difficulty if she had needed to. 
Mr B told us his employer provided him with some  sick pay if he couldnt work.  Ive thought 
about this, but the PPI they were sold couldve paid a monthly benefit in addition to any sick 
pay and for up to 12 months.  Itd also have paid out if Mr or Mrs B lost their jobs.  Bearing in 
mind the mortgage  was secured on their home,  I think theyd have valued the additional  
security they got from the policy in case things had gone wrong. 
The policy benefit  would also mean they wouldnt  need  to use any of their savings  towards 
paying the monthly mortgage repayment if either  of them couldnt work.
I cant know how much information was given to Mr and Mrs B when the policy  was sold.  
And its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if they couldnt work.  It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them  
off taking out the cover. 
From the mortgage application completed for the 2007 further advance it looks  like Mr B had 
changed employer  and Mrs B had become employed. But from what  I can see of their 
circumstances I think they remained eligible for the policy and still had a need for the cover. 
Particularly as they were  increasing their borrowing.  
Mrs B has said she had a separate insurance  policy she could have relied on so didnt need 
the PPI. Ive thought about  this, but looking at the information Mrs B sent in, it looks  like the 
policy provided life and critical illness cover. It may also have given her some health 
insurance too. But this is different cover to the PPI so I dont think  the PPI policy  duplicated 
cover Mrs B already had in place.   
In summary  I think its most likely  Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B aware of the policy and that it 
was optional. And I think they chose to take it out in 2005 and chose to increase the cover in 
2007. I think it was right for them, given their circumstances. And even if Lloyds had given 
Mr and Mrs B the clear information  about the policy that it shouldve, I still think they 
wouldve taken it out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 April 2019.
Ref: DRN31788053Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178805