K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a new credit 
card. She got the card from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in 1996.
background
I can see Mrs H has been paid back some  money for the commission and profit share  
elements Barclays got from selling  her the PPI. However, our adjudicator  who looked at this 
case said the complaint  about the actual  mis-sale  shouldnt be upheld.
Mrs H disagreed with this because she still thinks the policy was mis-sold in the first place 
and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
These events are from 23 years  ago and we now know Mrs H bought  the PPI whilst 
applying, by post, to have  the new card. I was sent a copy of her credit  card application and 
I can see it gave what appears  to be an obvious  choice to either  have, or not have, the PPI. 
Mrs H ticked the box to add the PPI policy  and she left the no box blank. She also signed 
the form too.
I note the payments were then described over many years on her monthly statements as 
Payment Protection  Plan.  So I think its clear  Mrs H properly consented to the policy  and if 
she hadnt, I think she would have wanted to know why she was being regularly charged.
This was a postal application and so I think Mrs H would have made  her way through the 
form without any intervention from Barclays. I also think she would have most probably done 
this in her own time and space. So it wasnt an advised sale and Barclays didnt therefore 
need to make sure the policy was suitable for Mrs H. The decision about buying the cover 
and whether it was right for her was for Mrs H to make. 
I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
more clearly, but overall this doesnt change  what I think.
I say this because  the evidence  does  show she wanted this type of protection and was given 
a choice. I also see the application leaflet  contained  some brief information about  the policy 
including the cost and what it covered so Mrs H would have quite easily  been able to see 
these things. Mrs H was also eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the main  
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. 
Looking at the work she did, I agree  she may have had some  sickness  protection already. 
But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the cover wasnt  of value to her. The PPI would 
have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit card balance for up to a year if shed needed to 
claim. This wouldve been in addition to any other means she had at that time. 
Ref: DRN31114192So I think this policy was of use and thats probably why she agreed to have  it. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mrs H but Im not upholding her mis-sale complaint.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything  
more. I understand  Mrs H has already been paid for the elements I mentioned  at the top of 
this letter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3111419