K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2008.  Mr K says Black Horse Limited mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Black Horse  has said the PPI was sold over the phone. And its sent us a copy of the sales 
script it says was in use at the time of the sale. This script only instructs the advisor to 
discuss PPI after it has been confirmed that the hire purchase agreement  has been 
approved. It also refers to the PPI as optional  and instructs the advisor to ask the customer  
whether they are happy to take the PPI on several occasions.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  this script was largely followed in the sales  
call with Mr K. So I think  Black Horse made it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it knowing he didnt have to.
Black Horse  says it recommended the PPI to Mr K, so it had to check that it was right for 
him. And, based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he doesnt  appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve  been 
entitled to sick pay. And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means he couldve 
used to make his repayments if he wasnt earning.
Its possible the information Black Horse  gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr K if something went wrong. It also looks  like it was affordable.  
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr K off taking it out.
Which means Black  Horse doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Black Horse has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
Black  Horse got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr K about that. Because  Black  Horse didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Black Horse has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN39148302my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Black  Horse Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Black Horse Limited does have  to pay back to Mr K any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3914830