K820x#14complaint
Mr S says he transferred  his defined benefit pension  in 2006/2007. He was then advised in 
2010 by Advanced Asset Management Limited  (AAM), a representative of TenetConnect 
Services Limited (Tenet) to invest part of his pension in Turnberry Plots. He says he was 
told that these  plots  should be sold in two to five years and he would make a 25% profit. 
Mr S complains that the plots  have not been  sold and he has not received his investment 
back or received  any profit. He also says he was not told that 75% of the owners  of the plots 
would need to agree to sale or that, later, planning permission  on the plots  had lapsed.  
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 January 2020. A copy is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I discussed  that I believed  the complaint would fall 
within my jurisdiction. But I did not think it should be upheld.
Mr S did not accept the provisional decision. He said that:
He thought there had been more  focus on the jurisdiction issues  than the complaint 
itself. 
His role was to ensure  that advisers  carried out the practice  of giving financial advice 
appropriately and that they adhered  to the regulations  from the FSA and FCA. 
Knowledge of financial  products was not the main  focus.  He had no experience of, or 
training on, unregulated products or UCIS.  This shows he was not in a fully informed 
position. 
His attitude to risk was cautious and he should not have been  put into a high risk 
product. He was pressured into making  the investment and he wasnt given enough 
time to consider  the investment being  made.  
Whilst he did have knowledge  of regulated products and the risks, he was not 
advised the investment was unregulated or within his attitude to risk. His capacity for 
loss was not considered and this investment has had a significant effect on his 
retirement planning. 
His industry knowledge has been  over-assumed.  He had no experience of 
unregulated products.  Knowing what he does now, he would never have invested. 
Another complaint  at this service by a financial adviser has been  upheld in the same  
circumstances. Reference was made to an ombudsman publication that discussed 
occupation as a factor in complaints. 
He did not take the FPC (Financial Planning Certificate) exams 1, 2 or 3. He 
completed a Certificate in Investment  Planning  through the Chartered Institute of 
Bankers in Scotland for his Bancassurance  role. He does not remember there being 
part of that syllabus that detailed unregulated  products or UCIS. He had to update 
the gaps in his knowledge in 2013  in 2010 his knowledge was very sparse.     
Ref: DRN33333322my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered carefully what Mr S has said. However I remain  of the view that the 
complaint should  be not be upheld. 
The evidence is that Mr S did have a significant  financial services background and 
experience of investment products. I recognise  that he has said this did not include 
unregulated products. But for an individual of his background  and knowledge this is not a 
complex investment  or one that I do not believe he could understand. It is a fairly 
straightforward investment in land with the intention to develop  that land for profit.  The fact it 
is unregulated,  which  arguably Mr S should have appreciated, does not bring  with it any 
other significant layer  of complexity. The risks are of a type I believe Mr S could more  likely 
understand. For example, the investment could  fall in value, the development might not 
proceed or a buyer may not be found  these are all risks which  I believe Mr S would be 
aware of. These risks are not materially affected  by the fact the investment is unregulated. 
As the ombudsman publication Mr S refers to sets out, occupation and experience may be 
relevant to the outcome  of a complaint. And here I believe it is. I would also confirm that 
each case is considered on its own merits. The fact that another complaint may be upheld 
on its own particular set of circumstances does not mean that another  should also be 
upheld.  
If Mr S felt that he did not have enough  time to consider the investment then he had the 
opportunity to decline to invest. His occupation and knowledge would  have given him the 
wherewithal to halt the investment if he thought he needed more  time. He did not have  to 
invest. 
Bearing this in mind  and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I do not believe 
the complaint  should be upheld. 
my final decision
Whilst I do believe that this complaint would fall within my jurisdiction, I do not uphold  it or 
make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33333323copy provisional decision 
summary of complaint
Mr S says he transferred his defined  benefit  pension in 2006/2007. He was then advised  in 2010 by 
Advanced Asset Management Limited (AAM), a representative of TenetConnect Services Limited 
(Tenet) to invest part of his pension in Turnberry Plots. He says he was told that these plots  should  
be sold in two to five years and he would make a 25% profit. Mr S complains that the plots  have not 
been sold and he has not received his investment back or received any profit. He also says he was 
not told that 75% of the owners of the plots would need to agree to sale or that, later, planning  
permission on the plots had lapsed. 
background to complaint
In 2010 Mr S says he was advised by AAM to invest in Turnberry Plots.  These were plots of land 
with the intention  that properties would be built for onward  sale. 
Mr S complained to Tenet but it said that he had complained too late. It said that the six and three 
year periods allowed for making a complaint  had expired.  It referred  to the fact that more than six 
years had passed between the point the advice was given and the point Mr S complained. It also said,  
with respect to the three year limit, that Mr S had asked for the plot to be sold in April 2015. So he had 
been aware  from that point that the plot could not be sold. As he did not complain until May 2018, the 
three year period had expired.  
Tenet also said that AAM was its representative from 2002 until 30 September 2010.  It said it could  
not therefore comment  on AAMs actions after September 2010. 
Tenet said, in any event,  that Turnberry Plots was an Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme  
(UCIS) which  AAM did not have  its permission  to advise on. 
Mr S referred his complaint  to the service  and it was considered by an investigator. The investigator 
thought that the complaint  had been made too late. He said that more than six years had passed 
since the advice had been given. And that more than three years  had passed since Mr S was aware 
he had cause  for complaint (April 2015 when  he attempted to sell the plot).  
Mr S did not agree and says he became aware of cause  for complaint in December 2017  at which 
point he did make his dissatisfaction clear  to AAM (for which he was working at the time). He asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my provisional  findings
jurisdiction
Before this service can consider the merits of a complaint we need to check whether it would  fall 
within our jurisdiction. 
time limits
There are time limits  that apply to making a complaint and if the complaint  is not made  within those  
limits then we cannot consider it. 
 
The time limits for making a complaint are contained  within the DISP (Dispute Resolution) Rules. The 
specific time limits that are relevant to this complaint are contained in DISP  2.8:
Ref: DRN33333324The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint  if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service: 
(1) more than six months after the date on which  the respondent sent the complainant  its final 
response or redress determination; or 
(2)  more than:
 
(a)  six years after the event  complained  of; or (if later)
(b)  three years  from the date on which  the complainant  became aware (or ought  reasonably  to have 
become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent  or to the Ombudsman within that 
period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint having been 
received.
The requirements  that are particularly relevant here are that Mr S should  have made his complaint 
within six years of the event complained of, or three years  from when he became aware,  or ought 
reasonably to have become aware, that he had cause  for complaint.
The event complained  of in this case is the advice  that Mr S says he was given to invest in Turnberry 
Plots. The advice was given in 2010. 
There is some dispute  about when Mr S complained. He says that he complained to AAM in 
December 2017 after a visit to the Turnberry Plots site. But my understanding is that Tenet  say Mr S 
complained to it in May 2018.  In any event, even assuming December 2017, this was more than six 
years after the advice was given that Mr S complains about. The six year time limit therefore expired 
before Mr S lodged his complaint. 
The material  issue then is the three year time limit and when Mr S had, or ought to have had, cause 
for complaint.  And then whether his complaint  was lodged within three years of that point.  If Mr S did 
complain in December 2017, if he was, or ought to have been, aware of a cause for complaint against 
Tenet before  December  2014, then he would have complained too late. Alternatively if the date he 
complained was, as Tenet says, 31 May 2018,  then this date would be 31 May 2015.  As I will explain 
I do not believe Mr S is out of time whichever date is assumed. 
As discussed, Tenet has said that the three year period should start to run from the date Mr S 
requested his plot be sold.  The evidence  would indicate that was 7 April 2015. 
I do not believe that is the correct date from which time for the purposes of the three year limit should 
start to run. To assume that date would mean accepting that Mr S was aware on the same date he 
made the request  that it would not be fulfilled   which cannot be right.  It must  be at some point after 7 
April 2015, after a reasonable  amount  of time had passed and the plot was not sold,  that he came to 
be aware that the plot could not be sold.  
We have  asked Mr S about this and he said that in April 2015 he asked an individual at AAM how the 
sale was progressing. Mr S says he was told that, all was in hand and marketing was under  way. It 
would be sold within the next 6 months to a year as things  take time . He says that, I was asked to 
sign a letter authoring  Yorsipp to sell the plot as doing this now would expedite matters to let a sale go 
through. He says it wasnt  until 2017 that he realised the sale wouldnt be made. 
It would be entirely reasonable for Mr S to believe  that the sale would take some time to complete  
and he was told 6 months to a year.  I do not necessarily agree that he should have  waited until 2017 
to make a complaint but I do not believe he ought to have known he had cause for complaint in April 
2015. It would have been reasonable for him to believe  that it would take at least 6 months and 
therefore any knowledge for cause for complaint would only accrue  after October 2015.   
Ref: DRN33333325I think  it is more  likely  that it was only after October 2015 at the earliest  that Mr S became  aware  or 
ought to have  been aware that his plot would  not be sold. So, even if the later date for complaint of 31 
May 2018 is assumed  that means he has complained within three years of knowledge  of cause for 
complaint against Tenet. 
 
However, in respect of jurisdiction, that is not the end of the matter. That is because Tenet says that 
AAM did not have its authorisation to advise on Turnberry Plots.
Is Tenet  responsible for AACs advice
In this case, Tenet says that we dont have the power to look at this complaint,  on the basis that it 
relates to acts it isnt responsible for. Tenet says it didnt authorise  AAM to give advice on Turnberry 
Plots. 
DISP 2.3.1R says I can, consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction  if it relates to an act 
or omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,  including advice,  
carried on by the firm in connection with them. 
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says that, complaints about acts or omissions  include those  in respect 
of activities for which  the firmis responsible (including  business  of any appointed representative  or 
agent for which the firmhas accepted responsibility.  
Under section  39(3) of the Financial Services  and Markets  Act (FSMA), the principal of an appointed 
representative is responsible,  to the same  extent  as if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done 
or omitted  by the representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So to decide whether  Tenet is responsible  for the actions  of its representative (AAM) here I have 
considered three  material issues: 
What are the specific actions taken by the representative  that Mr S has complained about?
Are those acts regulated  activities or ancillary  to regulated activities? 
Is Tenet responsible  for those activities?   
what are the specific actions taken by the representative that Mr S has complained  about?
Mr S says that he was unsuitably advised to invest his money into Turnberry Plots and these have not 
been sold at a profit  as he was led to believe by AAM. 
are those  acts regulated  activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO). Advising  on or 
arranging the encashment  of a regulated investment is a regulated activity that would fall within  my 
jurisdiction. 
Ref: DRN33333326My understanding is that Mr Ss Standard Life personal  pension was switched to a YorSIPP SIPP so 
that the investment in Turnberry Plots could  be made. That is a regulated activity that would fall within  
my jurisdiction. 
In terms of the Turnberry Plot investment, FSMA  says that a CIS is an arrangement with respect to 
any kind of property  whose purpose or effect  is to enable the participants to participate in or receive 
profits or income arising from the acquisition,  holding,  management or disposal  of the property or 
sums paid out of such profits  or income. For an arrangement to be a CIS the participants mustnt have 
day to day control over the management of the property and either the contributions or the money  
from which theyre paid must be pooled  and/or  the property must be managed as a whole by or on 
behalf of the operator of the CIS.
Tenet believes that Turnberry Plots was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).   It may 
well be a UCIS as it exhibits  at least some of the qualities of the FSMA definition  of a CIS. And it 
would appear to be unregulated. But even if it was not, regulated activities took place  in relation to the 
switch of the existing pension, at least. I therefore need to consider whether those  activities were  the 
acts of Tenet.
So I have gone on to consider if Tenet is responsible for the acts Mr S complains  about.
is Tenet  responsible for those activities?
 
I have considered the submissions that have been made about who gave advice  on or arranged  the 
investment in Turnberry Plots. Mr S says that he was advised by AAM to invest in Turnberry Plots. Mr 
S says he, received a phone call saying there was an opportunity to buy some property/land  with 
planning for 5 large delux villas. Mr S says he was not supplied with any supporting information. Mr S 
refers to the marketing of the land by an individual at AAM
I have seen a recommendation to Mr S that he switch  his personal pension to a SIPP. The 
recommendation was set out in a letter of 1 March 2010 and discussed  investing the Turnberry Plots. 
The letter set out a recommendation for Mr S to transfer £33,000 from his Standard Life pension to a 
SIPP with YorSIPP so this investment could be made.  This recommendation was from a director of 
AAM, representing AAM. It is clear  therefore that AAM gave advice to Mr S to switch his pension and 
make the investment. 
AAM was an appointed representative of Tenet.  What  that means  is that Tenet  is responsible for the 
activities of AAM that it had authorised it to undertake. 
As discussed, guidance is given  as to the position of responsibility for complaints about 
representatives in the Financial Conduct Authorities Handbook. DISP 2.3.3G  of the handbook sets 
out:
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the firmhas 
accepted responsibility)". 
 
Appointed representatives  are not employees of the principal firm.  They  are independent  and might 
not act only for the principal  firm.  Sometimes those who operate as appointed representatives  
operate other businesses also.  So sometimes it is clear that a person who happens  to be an 
appointed representative does something on his own account (or in some  other capacity) rather than 
as business for the principal. 
So in the case of Emmanuel  v DBS Management  Plc [1999] a principal was held not to be liable for 
activities that were held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted 
responsibility for. In that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares in and lend 
money to the appointed  representative itself. 
Ref: DRN33333327what does accepted responsibility mean here?
It is important to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives  acting in their 
capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation  of statute not common law 
agency.
I note the following comments made by the courts:
Page v Champion Financial Management Limited  [2014]  EWHC 1778, Mr Simon Picken  QC sitting  as 
a Deputy Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing before me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue that 
Section 39(3)  gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal) sense. This was a sensible 
concession since it is clear  that Section 39(3)  does  not entail the imposition of vicarious  
liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional Liability (7th Ed) at 
paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114, HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely  separate statutory liability and has nothing  to do, on 
the face of it, with the law of agency.  It does not require an agency to be proved before it can 
be activated
In that case  the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship between  
the principal  and the appointed representative depending on the facts  of the case.  However for 
present purposes  it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope of the appointed 
representative status rather  than common law agency principles. 
As mentioned  above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
 
"(1) If a person (other  than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person ("his principal") which  
(i) permits or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed , and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  his 
principal has accepted responsibility in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition in relation  to any regulated activity comprised  in the 
carrying on of that business for which his principal has accepted responsibility
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility."  (my emphasis)
So under s.39 the principal  (Tenet) is required  to accept responsibly for that business  which is a 
reference back  to business of a prescribed  description.
However the case Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC  2834 makes it clear that the words part 
of in s.39 allow a principal  firm to accept responsibility  for only part of the generic  business of a 
prescribed prescription.
I will first deal with the meaning prescribed business before dealing  with the part of point  
what does prescribed mean here?
Ref: DRN33333328The interpretation section, s. 417 FSMA,  says that where not otherwise defined, prescribed means 
prescribed in regulations  made by the Treasury.  Such regulations have  been made  the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Appointed Representatives) Regulations 2001 (as amended  from 
time to time).  Regulation 2 covers descriptions  of business for which appointed representatives are 
exempt.  
what was prescribed business at the relevant time?
At the relevant time the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (Appointed Representatives) 
Regulations 2001 said:
2. Descriptions of business for which appointed representatives  are exempt

(a)an activity  of the kind specified by article 25 [of the RAO] (arranging deals in 
investments) where the arrangements are for or with a view to transactions relating to 
securities or relevant  investment.
(b)
(c)an activity  of the kind specified by article 53 of that Order (advising on investments)
(d)an activity  of the kind specified by article 64 of that Order (agreeing to carry on 
activities), so far as relevant to an activity  falling  within subsection(a) [or] (c) 
is prescribed  for the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i) of section 39 of the Act (exemption  of 
appointed representatives).
So prescribed business  is business which  is defined at a high level. It means business  in the sense 
of certain regulated activities. It does  not mean business  in any greater level or particularity. So it 
does not mean business in the sense of an individual transaction.
So in this case it means,  say, advising on investments (under article 53 RAO) or arranging them 
(under article 25 RAO). It does not mean advising Mrs Wilson on her particular  investments. 
what was the prescribed  business Tenet accepted responsibility for in this case?
Tenet has provided the appointed  representative contract between  it (at the time the M & E Network) 
and AAM. This sets out the prescribed business that AAM can undertake.
The contract sets out: 
4. APPOINTMENT
4.1 The Company hereby appoints the Member as an Appointed Representative  of the
Company and grants the Member during  the Term a non-exclusive agency to carry  on
the Business and to obtain Applications upon  the terms set out in this Agreement.
4.2 As a condition of its appointment the Member undertakes  that at all times during the
Term it will and will require any Financial Adviser or other Member of its staff to
4.2.1 comply with the Rules so that in the event  of any conflict between the
provisions of the Rules and of this Agreement the provisions of the
Rules shall prevail  over the provisions of this Agreement
4.2.2 not carry  on any Investment Business other than the Business
4.2.3 comply with the provisions of the Membership  and Compliance Manual
and any restrictions or prohibitions as to any class of business  notified to
the Member in writing  as prohibited
4.2.4 enable  the Company  to comply  properly with any restriction or
Ref: DRN33333329prohibition as to its business which may be imposed under the Rules
4.2.5 otherwise satisfy the requirements of Section 44 of the Act
4.2.6 comply with any instructions which  the Company  may give concerning
investigations which may be earned out by the PIA, or any instructions
which may result  from the exercise of intervention powers or any other
powers by the PIA.
RESTRICTIONS
6.1 The Company shall at all times have the unfettered right in its absolute discretion to
restrict impose the following restrictions in relation to Applications  which may be
submitted and advice which the Member may give to Clients:
6.1.1 the type and amount of Investments  to which any such  proposed
Contract may relate; and
6.1.2. the Institutions to whom Applications may be made.
6.2 The Member shall at all rimes  abide by any such restrictions as notified from
time to time by the Company  and indemnify  and keep  indemnified the Company
against any liabilities whatsoever arising from any breaches thereof.
6.3 Under no circumstances during the Term shall the Member procure or endeavour to
procure Clients to enter into Investment  Contracts with Institutions with which the
Company has no established agency for Investment  Contracts or does  have an
established agency but without making the Application by or through  the Company.
For the avoidance  of doubt, during the Term the Member is prohibited  from:-
6.3.1 procuring or endeavouring to procure  any Client to enter into any
Contract otherwise than through the agency of the Company; and
6.3.2 submitting proposals for Investment  Contracts directly or indirectly to
any Institution, other than an Approved Institution;  and
6.3.3 applying  for, holding an agency, becoming  an employee, becoming a
tied representative,  becoming an Appointed Representative  or being
otherwise tied to any person,  firm or company including  any insurance
company operator of a Collective Investment Scheme, Independent
Financial Adviser  or other financial institution other than the Company.
Contracts was defined  as: 
means any policies  of assurance, annuity contracts,  pension plans and/or policies, health care, 
financial products, mortgages, investments and insurance or financial products and services of such  
other nature as shall for the time being  be dealt  in by the Company
Applications was defined as: 
means applications for any Contracts
Approved Institution  was defined as:
means any Institution  which  the Company  shall notify to the Member  from time to time is to be 
regarded for the time being as an Approved Institution  for the purposes of this Agreement
Ref: DRN333333210The permitted Institutions from which  the appointed representative could select products  or 
investments available  was detailed  at the time by Tenet. 
So, in brief, Tenet permitted AAM to carry out regulated activities on its behalf as its appointed 
representative but sought to limit those activities to certain investments, institutions and products that 
it permitted. 
The providers approved by Tenet  at the time these acts occurred did not include YorSIPP or 
Turnberry Plots. However an approved  provider  would appear to be Standard Life, it is included as an 
approved SIPP provider and I assume it was also an approved provider for personal pensions.  If that 
is not the case then Tenet should let me know.  
is Tenet  responsible for AAMs  activities  in relation  to the personal pension switch/surrender,  
the YorSIPP SIPP or the  investment  in Turnberry Plots?
In Ovcharenko v Investuk , HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed 
representative and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting.   The  judge  said:
21 Section 39(3) then says: 
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against,  here, D2 for the activities of D1 in 
the way I have described. 
Then the judge said:
33  the whole point of section 39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out regulated 
activities, so that they have  a long stop liability target which is the party which  granted  
permission to the authorised  representative in the first place.  In my judgment,  section 39(3) is 
a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more and no less than enable the 
claimant, without law, to render the second defendant liable where there have been defaults  
on the part of the authorised  representative in the carrying out of the business and which 
responsibility had been accepted
34 [counsel for D2]  has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 to 
D2 that it will not do anything outside  clause 3.
35 All that does is regulate the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about the 
scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants  under section 39(3). The same  point can be made 
in respect of clause 4.7 which says, "The representative will not carry out any activity in 
breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 in 
paragraph 9 of the judgement and the following description of the clause]  which limits the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is a 
promise made inter se. 
36 The reason for those  promises  is obvious. D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those defaults have arisen  because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives a 
right of recourse which sounds in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel for D2] 
was correct, it would follow that any time there  was any default on the part of an authorised 
representative, for example,  by being in breach of COBS,  that very default  will automatically 
Ref: DRN333333211take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised representative 
agreement but will take D2 outside the scope of section  39(3) , in which  case its purpose as a 
failsafe protection for the client will be rendered  nugatory; that is an impossible construction  
and I reject it. 
In the applicable authority of Martin v Britannia Life Limited [1999]  the judge  took a broad approach. 
The appointed  representative advised  on a package of transactions including a mortgage. The judge 
held that the concept of investment advice will include all financial advice given to a prospective client 
with a view to or in connection with the purchase, sale or surrender of an investment  including advice  
as to any associated or ancillary transaction. 
So in Martin v Britannia Life a firm was held to be responsible for advice  that extended beyond  the 
products the appointed  representative  was authorised to advise upon.  However that was on the basis 
that there was an activity  that was part of the overall  transaction  that the appointed representative 
was authorised to advise on. 
The Judge in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] agreed with the above.   In that 
case the network principal had argued that it was not responsible  for advice to invest in an investment 
in which it did not authorise the appointed representative to deal.   The Judge said: 
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect]. The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, express 
or implied, to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet  as having such 
authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
The above is a reminder of the point I made above  that I am concerned with a particular statutory 
relationship, and not agency  generally.
It is clear that the courts  think  that at least some conditions on the authority given  to an appointed 
representative in a s.39 agreement only apply  as between the parties, that they:
regulate the position  inter se
Does that mean all terms in the contract apply  in that way?  The answer to that question is no 
because of the words part of in s.39.
what about the part of point?
None of the cases I have referred to above really considered this point.   But it was dealt with in the 
most recent  case on the subject Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834.  In that case the 
Judge, Mr Justice Jacobs,  said:
133. There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business  for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to 
the contract, but by reference  to the authorisations granted to the principal which  are to be 
found in the Financial Services register
136. I agree with the Claimants that liability under section 39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the 
AR's actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered  the scope of Clause  3.2 of the AR 
agreement in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly 
encompassed by the permitted services in the authorised  representative agreement": see 
paragraph [32]. He said that the "business for which responsibility  had been  accepted 
encompasses the services  set out in Clause 3 of the authorised  representative agreement".  
Thus, section 39 was engaged notwithstanding other provisions of the AR agreement which  
Ref: DRN333333212imposed obligations or restrictions upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an 
obligation not to do anything outside clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions 
were matters which applied between the principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect 
liability under s.39.
138. Most recently,  in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied  the decisions in 
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability 
under s.39 "was not to be determined as a matter  of the contractual law of agency": see 
paragraph [61]. The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect was that the relevant advice  on 
"unregulated" investments was sufficiently closely linked to the advice  on regulated 
investments, which the AR was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports the 
proposition that in ascertaining the scope  of section 39, and the question  of the business  for 
which the principal has accepted  responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of 
agreement between the principal and the AR. It is implicit  in the decision that if the advice  on 
the unregulated investments  had not been sufficiently closely linked to advice which  the AR 
was authorised to give, then there would  have  been  no liability under  section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business for which  he has accepted 
responsibility". The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for 
example because of breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or 
because there  was no authority to advise  on a related  transaction (TenetConnect),  or 
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled before a product was offered,  does not mean 
that the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business"  for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced 
from the terms of the very AR agreement relied  upon in support of the case that the principal 
has accepted responsibility for the business  in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense  that the scheme,  and advice in connection with 
that scheme, were  well beyond the scope of the "business"  for which Sense accepted 
responsibility pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious argument that the activities 
of MFSS and Mr. Greig in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising 
upon it, were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business  of a financial adviser  
to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants' expert,  Mr. Morrey, 
said: "operating the scheme, so having  the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work 
of a financial adviser". Mr. Ingram's evidence  was that he knew that a firm of financial 
advisers should not be involved  with the scheme, including because the firm was not allowed  
to handle client money  and that the scheme was business of a kind that a properly regulated 
firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram was referring  to the express prohibitions in 
clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS accepting or holding or handling client money.
All this means a principal  (in this case Tenet) is responsible for the acts and omissions of an 
appointed representative acting within their actual authority.  It also means  that sometimes a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority.  And sometimes 
a principal is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond their actual authority.   
And the test in the Anderson v Sense Network judgment is that the principal is responsible  when the 
act or omission is sufficiently closely connected to the activities for which the actual authority was 
given.  
As discussed, AAM advised Mr S to surrender or switch a Standard  Life personal pension  an 
institution and investment which AAM could give advice  on under its agreement  with Tenet. So the 
advice or arrangement of the encashment and switch of the personal pension would  be something 
that AAM could do under the representative agreement with Tenet. Tenet  is therefore liable for that 
encashment or switch and the advice in relation to it and therefore my current  view is that the 
complaint would fall within my jurisdiction. 
Ref: DRN333333213I do note that the YorSIPP SIPP  and Turnberry Plots  investment were not approved institutions.  I 
would note here that Tenet has said that it did not permit  AAM to deal in UCIS but I have not seen 
that prohibition in any document it has supplied so far. 
In terms of YorSIPP and Turnberry  Plots,  even if that were  they were  not permitted,  it seems clear to 
me that the advice to surrender and switch the personal  pension were intrinsically linked  to the advice 
to set up the SIPP  and invest in Turnberry  Plots in the sense that the one could not proceed without 
the other.
I have referred to relevant caselaw  including Martin v Britannia Life [1999] Limited and TenetConnect 
v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018]. Such set out that if the non-authorised  activity is very closely 
connected to or inextricably linked  to the activity  which the principal  authorised and permitted then 
the non-authorised activity can be considered  to be part of the overall transaction that the principal 
permitted. 
The surrender/switch  of the Standard  Life pension was clearly  linked to the advice to set up the SIPP 
and invest in Turnberry  Plots and were part of the same  transaction. The advice to surrender was not 
given on a stand alone  basis but formed part of a process  encompassing both the surrender,  set up 
of the SIPP and investment  in Turnberry Plots. They were part of the same transaction  or piece of 
advice.   
Therefore, provided  the investment in Turnberry Plots was done in connection with carrying  on the 
business for which Tenet had accepted responsibility (which here it was), then Tenet  will be 
responsible for that investment and it will be a complaint that falls within my jurisdiction. 
AAM was authorised to advise on and to arrange the surrender of investments. It follows  the advice to 
set up the SIPP and invest in Turnberry Plots falls within my jurisdiction as it was a linked transaction  
of the surrender/switch  and part of the same piece  of advice. The investment formed  part of the same 
process as the surrender/switch. 
I would confirm however that as AAM was not an appointed representative of Tenet after 2010,  it is 
not responsible  for AAMs  action after this point. Therefore I cannot consider the actions of AAM  after 
2010 or Mr Ss concerns  about them.  
the merits of Mr Ss complaint
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S was advised  to switch  his pension to a SIPP and invest some of that pension in a land/property 
development. 
In order  to assess the merits of Mr Ss complaint I have considered his background. Mr S was a 
Training and Competence Manager for Tenet. 
The role of such an individual would  normally  include checks on the conduct  of regulated employees 
such as financial advisers, including the financial advice they give.  Such a role would also normally 
require and bring  with it a significant level of knowledge of financial services, investments products  
and the advice giving  process. 
Both Tenet and Mr S have  provided information about this. Mr S has said that he was involved in the 
training and competence of advisers in order  to make sure they complied  with financial services 
regulations. Tenet  has said that the role would  include  financial advice qualifications, knowledge  of 
financial services regulations, knowledge of the advice giving process  and financial products.   
The advice itself  to switch a pension  and invest in Turnberry Plots - would not be difficult for such an 
individual with that knowledge to understand. It was an investment in land with the intention to benefit  
Ref: DRN333333214from an increase  in the value of that land. It is likely that Mr S could appreciate the risks of such an 
investment (such as a profit may not materialise and/or  a sale not be possible) and the overall  
transaction of switching his pension so that he could  invest. Therefore I believe he likely was aware  of 
and prepared  to take those risks, understand the nature of the investment and accept  the 
ramifications of undertaking this transaction. 
Given that my view is that Mr S entered into the investment in an informed position  and prepared to 
accept the risks, it would not be fair and reasonable to uphold his complaint in these  circumstances  
and make an award against  Tenet  for any losses Mr S has been caused.
provisional decision 
Whilst I do believe  that this complaint would  fall within my jurisdiction, I do not intend to uphold it 
complaint or make any award. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3333332