K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he had through finance  with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services 
UK Limited  (MBFS)  was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new car in March 2015.  He funded the deal through  a four year hire 
purchase agreement  with MBFS.
The car worked well until 2018 when Mr M began to experience problems with it. He 
provided invoices  for work completed  on the car as follows:
7 February 2018  Engine Management Light (EML)  replaced  pins for pressure sensor
gearbox crunching  new output shaft  fitted
10 April 2018 EML  car losing power.  New pins required again.
re-gassed  air conditioning
replaced wiring loom for fan that was working intermittently
leaking intercooler replaced
18 July gearbox crunch reported again  seals  replaced
10 August gearbox crunching  reported  again  gearbox  replaced
And in November 2018 Mr M says the gearbox crunching had returned and there was an 
inoperative  dashboard warning light illuminated. He stopped using the car and complained  
to MBFS. He said the car was clearly not of satisfactory quality and he wanted to reject it. 
But MBFS didnt agree. They said hed had the car for three years and that they were only 
responsible for faults that occurred at the point of supply. They said if Mr M was suggesting 
the faults hed now experienced were  there  from the beginning it was for him to prove  that  
and they didnt think he had.
So Mr M referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided her opinion. She 
explained that, when we considered what satisfactory quality was, the relevant legislation  
suggested we should consider whether the car had proven  suitably durable  and she didnt 
think it had. She thought  it was reasonable to expect major components, such as the 
gearbox, to be free of defects for a considerable time on a new vehicle. So to put things right 
she thought MBFS  should  allow Mr M to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement  
and:
refund  the deposit Mr M had paid and add 8% simple interest
refund  the acceptance and purchase  activation fees hed been charged and add 8% 
simple interest
refund  four monthly instalments for non usage  based on the reduction in mileage she 
had noticed since  the problems had started
refund  half of the payments Mr M had made  between February and November 2018 
when his driving was severely impacted by continued gearbox  problems
pay Mr M £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hed 
experienced
refund  £360  of service plan charges from April 2018, when she thought  MBFS should  
have allowed him to reject the car, until March  2019
But MBFS disagreed  and they asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN36482452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MBFS but I agree with the adjudicators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant  law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
And the relevant legislation also tells us that, when we consider satisfactory quality, we 
should consider  whether the vehicle has proven to be suitably  durable.  And here, I dont 
think that can be the case.
Whilst its true to say that Mr M appears  to have experienced trouble free driving  until 2018, 
after that time the car has had extensive issues. The gearbox crunching  has been reported  
on several occasions and repairs have failed;  the EML fault remained unresolved  for an 
unacceptable amount of time; theres  been a replaced intercooler  and a new wiring  loom as 
well and the air conditioning has been  re-gassed. This was a new car and I think Mr M was 
entitled to expect it to be much more reliable. I dont think  a reasonable person would 
consider itd proven to be durable  and he should  therefore be allowed to reject the car.
Ive considered what the adjudicator has had to say about how MBFS put this right and I 
agree with her suggestions.
It seems  sensible to consider Mr Ms loss of use in relation to the use he had from the car 
before these problems  presented themselves. I can see he travelled 13,500 miles before the 
problems presented themselves in February  2018 but his mileage in February 2019 was only 
16,497. Hes therefore driven about 1,500  miles  less between February 2018 and February 
2019 and this equates  to about four months average usage.  So I agree that MBFS should 
refund this.
He experienced  significant issues between February  and November 2018. Its clear  that 
problems with the EML that caused  loss of power, and gearbox issues  that led to gears 
crunching remained unresolved and Mr Ms usage  of the vehicle  wouldve  been impaired. So 
I think its reasonable to ask MBFS to refund 50% of the amount  Mr M paid towards his 
finance agreement  for each of those months.
Mr M has also requested that MBFS refund some  costs  he said he incurred as a result of 
entering into the agreement with them and that he cant  recover.
Ref: DRN36482453I agree  that the purchase activation and acceptance  fees should  be reimbursed and I agree 
that the service  plan charges he was paying between April 2018  and March 2019 couldve 
been avoided  if MBFS had allowed him to reject his vehicle when it was clear problems 
hadnt been resolved. So they should be refunded  too.
I can see that MBFS have invoiced Mr M for a missing service history, additional rental  and 
some refurbishment to bring  the vehicle up to standard. If Mr M disputes these charges hell 
first need  to raise his concerns  with MBFS so that they have a chance to respond. 
Thereafter, if hes still dissatisfied he can bring  a new complaint  to this service.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Mercedes-Benz  Financial 
Services UK Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement with nothing more to pay
refund  the deposit Mr M paid and add 8% simple interest per annum
refund  the acceptance fee of £180 and purchase activation fee of £95 and add 8% 
simple interest per annum
refund  four monthly instalments for non usage  
refund  half of the payments Mr M made  for the months February to November  2018  
when his driving was severely impaired by unresolved issues
pay Mr M £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  hes 
experienced
refund  £360  of service charges for the period between  April 2018 and March 2019
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ms credit file in relation to 
this issue
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3648245