K820x#14complaint
Mr P, on behalf of himself  and the estate of Mrs P, says West Bromwich  Building Society 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P and the late Mrs P took out a mortgage in 1985  and bought PPI at the same  time. They 
recall the sale took place  at a meeting in one of West  Bromwichs branches.  The policy gave  
them protection against accident, sickness and unemployment. They  paid a monthly  amount 
for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  (as 
some of it is here),  I have based  my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  
on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr P says they werent told they could  buy PPI elsewhere, they believed they had to buy 
it from West Bromwich.  I cant  know what was said in the meeting, but Ive considered 
Mr Ps comments carefully. I also have to take into account how long ago the sale was 
and how that might affect what  he recalls. West Bromwich no longer has any of their 
paperwork from the PPI sale,  but thats not surprising or unreasonable  given how long 
ago it was. It has provided a sample of the PPI leaflet and application form that it used at 
the time.  So I think its likely this is what Mr and Mrs P saw and completed. Theres 
nothing on this form that I think could reasonable have led them  to believe they had to 
have PPI. And I dont  think  West Bromwich  was obliged to tell them about other PPI 
products on the market.  Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude that 
West Bromwich  didnt  make it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs P didnt agree 
to take it out.
West Bromwich  recommended the PPI and it seems to have  been  right for Mr and Mrs P  
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They were both entitled to 
less than three months full pay if they were  sick and had no savings. The PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to their work benefits  and for up to 24 months for each 
successful claim.  It also gave them up to 24 months redundancy cover. Mr and Mrs P 
were taking  on a debt secured on their home. So the effects of not keeping up with the 
repayments could  have been  serious for them.  Overall, I think  the PPI would have  been  
useful for them if they were sick, had an accident  or lost their job(s).
Ref: DRN30596302Its possible West Bromwich didnt give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed 
before deciding to buy PPI. I dont know when the bank  first made clear the cost or if it 
pointed out the main  things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs P dont appear  to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions. And it seems the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI 
wouldve changed their mind about buying it.
Overall, I dont  think Mr P and the estate of Mrs P have lost out because  of any problems 
with the sale.  
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059630