K821x#15complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the way Accidents Happen Assistance Limited  (AHAL)  dealt with her 
claim following a road traffic  accident.  
background
Miss Cs representative dealt with AHAL during her claim, and when bringing the complaint 
tot this service. For ease of reference  I have referred to Miss C throughout this final decision.
Miss C was involved in a road traffic  accident. AHAL were instructed to deal with repairs  to 
Miss Cs car, and arrange for a hire car while  repairs were  carried out. AHAL instructed a 
garage within their repair network  to complete  the repairs. The engineers  report recorded an 
estimated repair  time of eight working days.
In November 2018, during the call to arrange a hire car, the type of hire car on offer was 
discussed with Miss C:
AHAL call handler: Do you require  a seven seater?
Miss C: Yes preferably
AHAL call handler: It might be a bit difficult to get hold a seven seater
Miss C: Dont worry about it then any car will do
On 17 February 2019 Miss C contacted  AHAL saying that a friend  working at the garage  had 
told her that there was mould in the interior of the car, and that it was being  used  to tow 
other smaller  cars in the garage.  Miss C went to the garage and saw that there were mud 
marks along the side panel that looked fresh, and the general condition  of her car was poor. 
Repair works also had also not started  despite  how long her car had been  with the garage. 
Miss C contacted AHAL, and emailed images  of her car that shed taken when at the garage. 
AHAL contacted  the garage for comment, including the images sent by Miss C. 
On 22 February Miss C raised issues with having  to use a five seater car for the last few 
months, and the inconvenience caused by this. Miss C said shed being paying more  in fuel 
costs with the hire car, and this couldve  been  avoided if her own car had been repaired, and 
returned to her sooner. Miss Cs car was returned  from the garage  a few days  later,  having  
been professionally  cleaned. The hire car was collected on 1 March.
Miss C contacted AHCL  on 28 February  saying the clutch  is really high, and the brake  pads 
feel like theres metal  grinding. Following discussion it was agreed that the clutch  probably  
felt different  as Miss C was used to the clutch on a newer car (the hire car). Miss C also 
raised concerns  with one of the seats not resting  properly, and the amount of fuel the car 
had been returned with. AHAL  said because  of the issues raised, theyd  arrange  for the 
garage to provide a free MOT and service for Miss Cs car. They  also said theyd ask the 
garage to top the fuel up to a half tank at the same time. 
AHAL responded to Miss Cs complaint  on 7 March apologising for what had happened, and 
explaining their offer for a free service  and MOT, and half tank of fuel. Miss C referred her 
complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman  Service), 
saying the delays in repairing her car were unacceptable,  and it had been returned  with 
more issues than what it had gone  into the garage with. 
Ref: DRN32582562The investigator found that the service provided by AHAL was poor, and the impact on Miss 
C was severe. The investigator explained  that although Miss C had accepted a five seater 
car to begin  with, this was with the understanding that her own car would likely be returned 
in eight working days. Because of the delays  in repairing her car, she had to increase the 
number of journeys  to take her children  to and from school- the five seater  car wasnt 
suitable for transporting  her four children at the same time. The investigator recommended  
AHAL pay £500 to Miss C for the impact  caused to her by their poor service. 
AHAL accepted  these findings.  Miss C asked for an ombudsman to consider  the complaint, 
so its now with me for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the evidence  I broadly 
agree with the investigators findings  and outcome on this complaint. I can understand this is 
likely to come as a disappointment  to Miss C but I hope my findings go some  way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Theres no dispute that AHAL couldve handled  things better. The question now relates  to 
the severity of the impact on Miss C, and what AHAL should do to put things  right. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented  on any specific 
point its because I dont  believe its affected  what I think  is the right outcome.
The time to repair Miss Cs car was estimated as being eight working  days. It took almost 
four months for Miss Cs car to be returned  to her, after being sent to the garage in 
November 2018.  Miss C says she was repeatedly  told by the garage  that the car would be 
repaired soon, however this update was provided  week on week  with no progress. I havent 
been provided evidence of the calls between Miss C and the garage. However, I have seen 
evidence of the chasers AHAL  made  to the garage, where updates  on the estimated date for 
completion were provided, but not met. So I think its likely  that Miss C was told that the 
repairs would be done, but nothing happened  until AHAL  chased this in February  2019.
During this period, Miss C was using a five seater hire car. I appreciate what Miss C has 
explained about the struggles in managing  with a five seater car, especially in dropping and 
collecting her children  to and from school. Ive seen that the first time issues with the five 
seater car were raised with AHAL was in February  2019. Miss C has explained that before 
this time, she was given  assurances that her car was being repaired,  and thats  why this 
wasnt raised with AHAL  sooner. Given the repair estimate time was eight working days, I 
can see why Miss C wouldve continued using an unsuitable car, believing that her own car 
would be returned  shortly. Ive taken this into consideration when deciding  what  fair 
compensation should be for Miss Cs complaint. 
When Miss C raised concerns with the delays, and condition of her car, AHAL acted 
promptly in chasing  the garage for a response. I agree with the investigator  that AHAL  
couldve taken more  proactive action against  the garage sooner  than they did. It wasnt until 
Miss C raised concerns about her car, that AHAL began chasing the garage more  
vigorously, and asking for assurances  that the repairs would be completed as a matter of 
priority. I think these  actions were fair, and an appropriate response  to the severity of the 
issues raised by Miss C during her call to AHAL in February 2019. 
Ref: DRN32582563Miss C had complained  about mud marks on her car, and mould in the interior  of her car. 
AHAL ensured that this was highlighted as a concern to the garage, and asked for 
assurance that the car would  be professionally cleaned. This was a fair response  to this part 
of Miss Cs complaint. 
When Miss Cs car was returned, Miss C raised  concerns with some of mechanical issues  
with the car, which she explained were not there  before her car was sent into the garage.  
After discussing the clutch, it was agreed  that Miss C was probably  comparing the clutch to 
the newer hire car. I havent seen any evidence of this issue  being  raised  again,  until Miss C 
brought her complaint  to this service. Miss C also complained about the brake pads.  
As part of the compensation offer, AHAL agreed that Miss C could take her car back  to the 
garage for a full service, and MOT,  free of charge. They also said theyd ask the garage to 
top up the fuel by half tank, in recognition of Miss Cs complaint about  her car being returned  
with less fuel. During calls with AHAL  Miss C was also told that any issues with the car once  
returned, would be considered as part of a post-repair complaint. 
Miss C has explained  that because of the problems with the garage,  she was reluctant to 
involve the garage  again.  I appreciate Miss C was disappointed by the work  the garage had 
done. But I think AHALs offer to put things right, in respect of the mechanical issues  raised, 
was fair. 
We would  expect an accident management  to raise concerns in a timely way, and arrange  
for third parties such as a garage  or engineer to be instructed,  where appropriate. Miss C 
was told that the garage could inspect the car. If shed contact AHAL about the on-going  
brake and clutch problems, I think its likely a post-repair inspection  wouldve been offered, 
as this was discussed during earlier calls. Miss C has now sold her car. Ive taken into 
consideration the steps taken by AHAL to put things  right, and the offer from the final 
response letter, when  deciding what fair compensation should be. 
Miss C says her car was being  used  as a towing car, to tow other  smaller  cars around the 
garage. She says a friend  of hers working at the garage told her this was the case.  Theres  
no way of saying  definitively whether  the garage treated Miss Cs car this way. But its not in 
dispute that the garage couldve handled things  better overall, including the delay, and poor 
condition of Miss Cs car, while it was in the garages care. Ive considered these  factors 
when deciding on an award for the trouble and upset caused to Miss C.
The investigator recommended  AHAL pay Miss C £500 for their poor handling of the claim, 
and the impact on Miss C. I think this amount is broadly in line with what wed recommend 
for a complaint like this, so I wont be directing AHAL to pay anything more.  Ive considered 
the delay in the process, and impact  on Miss C. While I broadly agree with the investigators  
findings, for the reasons  explained, I also think AHAL acted  fairly  in some respects. The 
award for £500  still feels fair because Im persuaded that AHAL  couldve done  more earlier 
in the process  to minimise  this impact on Miss C, and delays on the claim.
Ref: DRN32582564my final decision
For the reasons  provided I uphold this complaint about Accidents Happen  Assistance 
Limited.
Accidents Happen Assistance Limited  should  pay Miss C £500 compensation in recognition 
of the trouble and upset caused to her by their poor handling of her claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3258256