K820x#14complaint
Mrs F and Mr W have complained about  their home  insurer Ageas Insurance Limited 
because when they made a claim on their policy after a burglary it took a long time to 
progress it and often  didnt communicate with them  very well.
background
Mrs F is Mr Ws mother. The policy is in Mrs Fs name but Mr W lives in the property and it 
was his belongings that were reported stolen and claimed for from Ageas. Ageas ultimately, 
in March 2019, declined the claim.  This complaint though deals with how Ageas handled the 
claim, prior to its decline being made, up until its final responses were  issued in September  
and early October 2018 regarding its claim handling  activity.
In June 2018 Mrs F reported the claim to Ageas. She said thered been a theft from Mr Ws 
bedroom on 21 June  2018. As the items belonged to him she asked Ageas to deal with him. 
But Mrs F said Mr W was out of the country  and hed get in touch  with it on his return.
Ageas received some information from Mr W on 2 July and began  making  enquiries. On 
9 July 2018 a jewellery  specialist appointed by Ageas emailed  Mr W, thanking him for 
photographs and said hed be contacted  shortly  regarding  replacement options. No contact  
was made  in this respect. But Mr W met with a loss adjuster on 13 July 2018 to discuss the 
claim. Mr W said he had to take time from work  for this appointment which went  on for a very 
long time.
Ageas continued  making enquiries and contacting  Mr W at times but he became frustrated 
because he didnt get called when promised and he was often chasing it for updates. Ageas 
wanted to see a copy of the police report and it told Mr W on 3 August 2018 that this could 
take up to six weeks.  On 11 September Ageas wrote to Mrs F, as its policyholder, and 
apologised for not yet being able to complete  its claim investigations. It explained  it was still 
waiting for the police report. 
The report  was received towards the end of September  but on 1 October 2018 Mr W was 
chasing Ageas again for an update as he hadnt been told what  was happening. On that day 
and on 9 October Ageas issued two further  letters to Mrs F. Ageas apologised for the service 
received and for how long Mr W had to wait on the phone to get through  to it; it said it had 
unfortunately been experiencing high volumes of calls at that time.  Ageas also explained a 
misunderstanding that had occurred to do with requests for, and transfer of, information  
between its agents.
Whilst Ageas and its adjusters now had the police report it didnt  conclude  its investigations. 
Rather, more enquiries were made.  Mr W made  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator felt that Ageas had acted reasonably  that it was entitled  to make enquiries  
and that its enquiries  had been reasonable. Mr W said he didnt really think  that answered 
his concerns about the time hed spent chasing  Ageas or the service received, and all this 
despite him and his mother being  loyal customers for many years. Our investigator 
confirmed the complaint  would be passed  to the ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN31755012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any 
disappointment this causes Mrs F and Mr W, Im not minded  to uphold their complaint.
As explained by our investigator, Ageas was entitled to investigate  this claim and those 
investigations took time.  I appreciate  that Mr W feels  he had to chase  Ageas a lot during 
those investigations  and it could have been  clearer with him. But it isnt unusual for an 
insurer not to provide  details during an investigation like this. Ageas couldnt reasonably  
share the information it was finding  with Mrs F and Mr W as things were being discovered. If 
it had called Mr W and said were still making  enquires but refused to give further detail  
that wouldnt have  made him any happier.  What  Mrs F and Mr W wanted was the claim to be 
concluded  and that simply took time.
That being  said,  I also see that Ageas noted  its delay in deciding liability  for the claim was 
causing Mrs F and Mr W some upset. As detailed above, it apologised twice and responded 
regarding call-wait times and the misunderstanding which  had occurred. I think what it said 
as a whole  across those  letters was a fair and reasonable response both to the concerns 
that had been raised  and in the circumstances of the claim. I think  it would be unfair  and 
unreasonable for me to say Ageas should do anything more.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ageas  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3175501