K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that CIS General Insurance Limited relied on inaccurate information  when  
they decided how to proceed  with his motor insurance claim. When I refer to CIS, that 
includes any contractors or firms  they appointed to handle or process any stage of Mr Ss 
claim, unless  otherwise  stated. 
background
At the end of October  2018, Mr S was on his way to work in the early  hours  of the morning. 
Whilst at the junction he witnessed an individual come off their motorbike. Mr S helped the 
individual to safety, as they were in the middle of the road. And gave them his contact details 
in case they needed any further  assistance and went  on to his destination.   
Mr S was then contacted  by CIS about  a month later regarding the accident. They informed 
him that the third partys  insurer (TPI) had made contact with them. They  stated the he was 
responsible for the accident, in that hed caused their insured to come off their motorbike. 
As Mr S disputed liability, CIS conducted their investigation. Their investigator  interviewed 
Mr S and it was recorded and then compiled into a report. CIS said Mr S signed the report 
and sent it back  to them via Royal Mail. Mr S denied this and has said he did not sign it. He 
also disagreed  with the content of the report.  
Relying on the content of the report, specifically that Mr S stated he had edged forward,  CIS 
accepted liability  and settled the claim without prejudice. Unhappy with this, Mr S raised  a 
complaint with CIS, but they maintained their position. 
Mr S brought this complaint to us as he felt CIS had relied on inaccurate information; 
contained in the report that he said he did not sign. One of our investigators looked into this 
and obtained a copy of part of the recording of the interview. CIS explained  that the partial 
recording was all that they had, due to the time that had passed. The investigator concluded 
that there  was no clear  misrepresentation  of the facts between the signed  witness  statement 
and the recorded interview.  They also concluded  that there was no evidence to confirm that 
Mr S hadnt  signed  the report.
Mr S has said he is seeking proof  that he was only contacted once regarding the interview 
and that the interviewer forged his signature. He has asked for his complaint  to be looked  at 
by an ombudsman and so it has been  passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has stated  that he disagrees  with the account given in the report of his interview. 
Having read the report and listened to a recording  of the corresponding section of the 
interview, I agree with Mr S that there  are inaccuracies, and this is unfortunate. Mr S has 
pointed out that the road and weather  conditions  have  been recorded inaccurately in the 
report, compared to what  he actually said, and this is correct. However, CIS has not relied  
on any of the inaccurate information in the report,  to inform their decision. 
Ref: DRN35146662CIS has accepted  liability because  Mr S admitted to edging forward.  Theyve stated that in 
doing so, albeit slowly,  it caused the third party to take evasive action  and fall off their 
motorbike. 
In the recording  of the interview, Mr S does  say that he was edging forward to the line. He 
said he was edging forward  on more  than one occasion. I therefore  think  that the information  
CIS has relied upon was accurate. 
Mr S has also said that he did not sign the report and that he was looking into obtaining  
evidence to demonstrate this. We have  not been  provided with any information to support 
Mr Ss assertion that he did not sign the report.  Conversely,  CIS has said that they received 
a signed copy  of the report through  the post.  
But even if Mr S was able to provide evidence to support his contention, it wouldnt have 
altered the fact that the information CIS relied upon was accurate;  in that Mr S said he had 
edged forward. In the circumstances Im satisfied that it was reasonable for CIS to settle the 
claim on the basis that it did.
I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr S, but I must consider the information 
provided by both sides. The actions CIS has taken in this instance have been fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  provided, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3514666