K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Society of Lloyds gave  him poor service after he made  a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  He also says it didnt offer him enough for his car after deciding  it 
was a total loss. All references  to Lloyds include its agents. 
background
Mr As car was involved  in a collision with another vehicle  in March 2016.  Mr A said he 
wasnt at fault, but the other  driver disputed that. Mr A says Lloyds engineer told him his car 
would be repaired,  yet shortly afterwards Lloyds  said it was an economic total loss. Mr A 
didnt accept the £2,250  for his car that an independent engineer  said Lloyds should offer 
him. He said the engineer didnt inspect  the car, and based his view on the wrong model.  
Mr A insisted that the car was worth £5,000 and that he had an agreed value policy. He 
found adverts for cars with lower specifications than his at prices well above Lloyds 
valuation. He said there were few adverts  for similar cars to his, as it was a rare model.  He 
didnt accept that the car should  have a total loss marker against  it, as hed had it fully 
repaired. He thought Lloyds should  reimburse him for the cost of the repairs. And he said 
the policy didnt  require him to pay the policy excess, as he wasnt at fault for the accident.
Mr A said Lloyds hadnt dealt with the claim properly. He said it hadnt  sought a police 
report, nor had it pursued the other driver  to gather evidence  and recover the cost of the 
claim. Mr A also said Lloyds advisors  had sent him confusing and contradictory messages, 
whilst not responding to his emails.     
One of our investigators  assessed Mr As complaint.  She said he didnt  have an agreed 
value policy. She thought  it was fair for Lloyds to say his car should be written-off, given its 
value and the likely cost of repairs. In her opinion, Lloyds had offered Mr A a fair price  for his 
car, based on the national trade  guide valuations - plus the view of an independent  engineer. 
She didnt  think Lloyds had caused delays, but she said its service could have been better. 
As Mr A didnt accept  the investigators  view, the complaint was passed  to me for review.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy
Although Mr A is sure he has an agreed  value policy, that isnt the case.  I think  its clear from 
the policy wording  that the most  Lloyds  will provide in the event of a cars total loss is its 
market value. Although  the policy schedule shows the cars value as £5,000, that only 
reflects Mr As view of its worth. The sum is referred to in the Statement  of Fact document as 
the cars  estimated value. If Mr A intended  to take out an agreed value policy,  and thought 
hed done so, that may be an issue for him to discuss with his broker. 
Mr A thinks  the policy says the £200 policy excess it isnt payable  if he isnt at fault for an 
accident. I cant see anything to that effect  in the policy. Its standard practice  for the excess 
to be paid when  a consumer makes a claim on their policy. In this case,  liability is disputed, 
but if the claim is settled  in Mr As favour, he should get the policy excess  back. 
 
Ref: DRN34442892The policy contains  a term allowing  Lloyds  to settle any claim as it sees fit, so I think it was 
for Lloyds  to decide whether it was going  to repair the car or whether  it was a total loss. 
Such terms are standard in motor  insurance  policies. Our role is to assess  whether an 
insurer has acted reasonably in using its discretion. I think  Lloyds acted reasonably, given 
the view it took of the cars value and the likely cost of repairs  as set out below. 
the valuation
We think that in general the best way to value cars is by looking  at the valuations given in 
the national trade guides. We dont usually find adverts persuasive, as they reflect asking 
prices and are subject to negotiation. But we think all the available evidence should be 
considered. Mr As car is a limited edition  model.  So he doesnt  think the trade guides 
provide a sound basis for valuing cars such as his. 
The total loss report shows  that Lloyds engineer valued the car at £1,740. He thought the 
repairs would cost over £1,600.  Theres  nothing  on the file to show  the engineer ever 
thought the car should be repaired, as Mr A believes. If he said that to Mr A, I think it would 
have been before he knew  the likely cost of repairs. The independent engineer  later agreed 
the car was a total loss  but he said Lloyds should offer Mr A £2,250 for it. 
Insurers usually say a cars an economic total loss if the cost of repairs  is over 60% of its 
pre-accident market value. We think thats reasonable. Mr As policy  says a car will be a total 
loss if the cost of repairs exceeds the cars market value. The engineers initial estimate  for 
repairs was below that. But I dont think Mr A lost out as a result. Had the car gone into a 
garage for repair, I think the garage  would have  given Lloyds a more  realistic figure. Mr A 
paid over £3,400  to have the car repaired.  So I dont  think theres any doubt  that Lloyds 
would have decided  not to repair it. Mr A thinks Lloyds should pay for the repairs. But it has 
already offered him what it thinks is the cars  market  value, which  I think  is reasonable. 
Mr A accepts there are very few adverts for cars like his. He sent Lloyds an advert for a car 
of the same  specification as his, which he says was sold for £4,750. He also provided an 
advert for a lower specification car, priced at £4,000.  The independent engineer wasnt able 
to find any close matches  to Mr As car. He found  adverts for lower  specification cars priced 
from £1,795 to £3, 890. In December 2018 Mr A gave us an advert  for a similar car to his  
minus the correct wheels   priced  at £3,199. Very recently  he found another  advert  for a 
lower specification model - a year older  than his - priced  at £3,495.  
It isnt our role to value  vehicles, but I can see why Mr A thinks  he should have been  offered 
more for his car. In my opinion, its problematic that theres such  a huge variation across  the 
market in the asking prices  for similar  and lower specification models of Mr As car. We 
found an advert recently for a car of similar  specification and mileage to his priced at £1,850. 
We also got a valuation for a similar car - from a different trade  guide  to the one used by 
Lloyds - at £2,050. In addition, we found adverts for two almost  identical lower specification 
models priced at £2,495 and £3,995. So there doesnt seem  to be any consistency in the 
advertised prices of these  cars.
I dont think the very brief note Mr A got from the owners  club for his make of car is helpful.  
The note quoted £5,000  as the cars value, but that wasnt backed up with any evidence or 
reasoning. Mr A hasnt  been able to find a car like his advertised  at that price. He thinks its 
Lloyds role to do that. But I think if Lloyds can show it has made a reasonable effort to value 
the car, its for Mr A to find evidence  to show its valuation is wrong. 
Ref: DRN34442893Given the huge variation in advertised prices and the lack of examples of cars that match 
Mr As vehicle,  I think it was fair for Lloyds to rely on the trade  guide  valuation and the view 
of the independent  engineer. I think the research weve done supports that view.
poor service
Lloyds requested a police report but didnt think it was worth pursuing it. I dont think that 
was unreasonable in the circumstances here. Mr A says a police officer told him the accident 
was the other drivers fault.  But that must have been  based  on Mr As description of the 
accident, as the police officer didnt  witness it. And as Mr A hasnt heard anything further, it 
seems the police arent taking any action. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to conclude  
that a police report wouldnt help it to deal with the claim. 
In my opinion, the other driver gave what seemed to be a credible alternative account of 
events to his insurer,  but Lloyds  continued  to defend Mr As position.  Liability disputes often 
take a long time to reach a conclusion. I dont think Lloyds delayed  the claims process 
unduly, given  that both liability  for the accident  and the valuation  of Mr As car were disputed  
from the start. And it issued interim settlement cheques to Mr A within a reasonable time.  
I agree  with Mr A that Lloyds contacted him with confusing queries  - such as asking if the 
police attended  the scene, when  hed already told Lloyds  in writing that they had. I can see 
how such queries  would have led Mr A to think Lloyds wasnt on top of the claim. And it 
must have  been  frustrating for him not to get a reply  to some  of his emails. 
I think there were also misunderstandings  between Lloyds and Mr A. For example, he said 
its final response letter was flawed, partly because it said the independent  engineer was 
appointed to inspect the car. Mr A said that was wrong,  as the engineer  hadnt done  so in 
person. But when desktop assessments are carried out - based  on paperwork and images - 
they may be referred  to as inspections. So I dont  think the wording used by Lloyds was 
wrong. I think its fair to say that had the independent engineer thought  he needed to see 
Mr As car in person, hed have made  sure he did. 
Overall, although I agree  that Lloyds service  could have been better, I dont think it was poor 
enough to justify an award  of compensation.
consequential losses   
    
Mr A says he continues to have nightmares  and to experience  stress.  He says the loss of his 
irreplaceable bespoke hearing aids in the accident has caused him daily problems. I think 
the accident and its aftermath must have been very traumatic for Mr A, and I do sympathise 
with his situation. Unfortunately, the losses hes set out as consequential are uninsured 
losses, so theyre not covered by the policy. Mr A could pursue them  separately   but he 
doesnt have legal  cover  to assist him to do that. Such cover is normally provided  by a 
separate motor  legal expenses policy. Mr A thinks his broker  said he had such  cover, so I 
think he would need to clarify  that with the broker.
I havent addressed  every  point Mr A has raised, but Ive dealt with the issues I think are 
central to his complaint. As I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably overall in dealing  with 
Mr As claim, I cant uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN34442894my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3444289