K820x#14complaint
Miss J says that she was mis-sold a single  premium payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Miss J took out a loan with HSBC in 2001. At the same time she was sold a single premium 
PPI policy  to protect her loan repayments.  The policy  wouldve  covered Miss Js repayments  
if she couldnt work due to accident  and sickness for the duration of the loan and for 12 
months if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she thought the sales  
documentation HSBC  wouldve used  made  it clear  Miss J had a choice in taking the policy  
and it wouldve suited  her needs. 
Miss J disagreed. She says she was told the PPI was compulsory.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint.
The sale took place  over15 years  ago so unsurprisingly there is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information I 
have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC havent  been able to confirm where  or how the policy  was sold. And HSBC havent 
been able to provide us with any of the key documents from the time of the sale. So I dont 
know exactly what was discussed about  PPI or how it was presented.
But HSBC  have given  us samples of its credit agreement and creditor protection  declaration  
which it says were  used at the time of sale. Ive no reason to think  that HSBC didnt use 
these or a similar documents  for the sale of PPI to Miss J.
The credit agreement sets out the premium for the policy, the total interest charged and the 
total payable for the PPI, as well as the monthly repayments. These are shown separately 
from the main loan. And Miss J wouldve had to sign separately  to show  that she wanted PPI 
on the credit  agreement as well as on the creditor protection declaration.
So because she wouldve had to sign separately  for PPI I cant say that its likely that HSBC 
didnt make it clear to Miss J that she had a choice in taking out the policy.  And on balance I 
think its more likely  that she had PPI because she chose to take the policy. 
HSBC hasnt been able to confirm  whether it recommended  the policy  so to be fair to Miss J 
I will assess this complaint on the basis that the policy was recommended.
Ref: DRN35067922What this means is that HSBC not only had to provide information about  PPI in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way so that Miss J could make an informed choice about buying PPI. It 
also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy  was suitable to her 
needs and circumstances.
I dont know if HSBC  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss J for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Miss J says she was entitled to some  sick pay and had other 
means of making her repayments  if she couldnt work. The policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of this and wouldve covered the repayments on the loan for a period of 12 
months if she lost her job or for the duration  of the loan if she was unable to work  due 
to accident or sickness. So I think it wouldve provided a useful benefit to Miss J.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Miss J at the time. I 
note that Miss J wouldve only received a limited refund of the PPI premium  if shed 
cancelled the policy early. But I havent seen  anything to suggest  Miss J needed  the 
flexibility to cancel  the policy early at the time of sale. So I dont think  this made the 
policy unsuitable.
I also need to consider  whether HSBC  gave Miss J information in a way which  was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know how much detail the adviser  went into during the sale or how things were 
explained to Miss J. But even if there were problems with the information  and advice,  for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Miss J has told us about  her 
circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  given the proper 
information. 
This means  Miss J isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing  by HSBC.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Miss Js complaint  against HSBC UK Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3506792