K820x#14complaint
Ms T is unhappy that The Society of Lloyds has declined  her claim under her
income protection policy.
background
Ms T has the benefit of an income  protection policy with Lloyds. Shes been off work since
March 2018 as a result of work  related issues and has been  diagnosed as suffering from
work related stress, anxiety and depression.
In July 2018 Ms T submitted a claim for benefit  under her policy  to Lloyds. Her claim was
declined as Ms Ts diagnosis had been made by her GP and Lloyds said, for her claim to be
covered, her condition  needed to have been diagnosed by a consultant, who also confirmed
this was the only reason she was unfit to work,  and she needed  to be under the continuing
care of that consultant. Ms T complained  to Lloyds saying her diagnosis had been confirmed
in an Occupational  Health (OH) report, her GP continued to sign her off as unfit for work and
it was unfair  to say she needed to be under the care of a consultant,  as only her GP could
refer her and this hadnt been done.  Lloyds wasnt prepared  to change its decision so it
didnt uphold  her complaint.
Ms T then complained to our service.  Our investigator considered  the case but even though
he accepted that being  referred to a consultant was something Ms T had no control over,  he
said her policy was clear in saying that for a claim to be accepted, a diagnosis  had to be
made by a consultant psychiatrist. But as access to NHS psychiatrists  is limited  and can be
subject to long waiting lists, he didnt think this was decisive  if there  was other  medical
evidence to support  the claim.
But he said for the claim to be accepted the policy required Ms T to be unable to carry out
her normal  occupation,  not just with her current employer, but with any employer. The OH
report suggested Ms Ts condition was work  related and the main reason she couldnt work
was due to the situation  with her employer.  And as he didnt think  the medical evidence 
suggested Ms T was unable to carry out her normal occupation, with another  employer, he 
didnt think there was enough  medical evidence for Ms T to meet  the remainder of the policy  
terms. So he didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
Ms T was unhappy with our investigators  opinion so the case  came to me for a decision.
I made  my provisional decision about the complaint on 28 August 2019. In it I said:-
Ms Ts policy  provides  cover if she is unfit for work due to accident  or sickness  but this is
subject to a number of conditions.  For the claim to be covered the absence from work must
be supported by medical evidence. And where the absence is due to anxiety, depression,
stress or any other mental health  condition the policy states that cover isnt provided  unless
your condition has been diagnosed by a consultant and they have certified  that you are unfit
for work, solely as a result  of that condition. You must be under the continuing  care of a
consultant in respect of the condition  which  has rendered you unfit for work and on which
your claim is based.
Ms T has been signed off work by her GP who has confirmed that she was diagnosed as
suffering from work related stress, anxiety and depression in March  2018. Ms Ts GP, as
Ref: DRN35617512well as continuing to provide sick notes  since her original diagnosis,  has written  a letter
confirming her diagnosis  and saying that, as her symptoms are being managed  in primary
care, a specialist referral  wont  be made.
Lloyds have acknowledged to us that they accept  this. And theyve said that because  of this
theyd approach claims favourably  if an insured  has sought help through  other avenues such
as counselling,  attending sessions run by a mental  health support service or seeing  a mental 
health nurse. As they think  this demonstrates  that the insured is trying to seek help and 
improve their condition.  They say they believe insureds can self-refer to some  of these 
services. Nevertheless, on the evidence  before  me I cant  say that Lloyds were wrong to rely 
on the policy term requiring Ms T to be under the continuing care of a consultant. So, I cant  
say that Lloyds did anything wrong  in declining Ms Ts claim.
Although our investigator said that he didnt think Ms T met the policy  requirement  of being
totally unable to work in her normal occupation , I dont intend to address this as Lloyds
havent relied on this requirement in declining the claim.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Lloyds havent  commented on my provisional decision.
Ms T has told us that several months ago she asked our investigator whether having a 
private consultation would help her claim but was told that it would not. Shes  told us that 
shes sought advice  from organisations  that offer support to people  suffering from anxiety 
and depression. And she says shes been using the self-help guidance  these organisations 
have provided. 
Shes also told us that shes  confiding in her husband, as a person of trust,  and that she was 
told counselling  is only recommended  if you have no close  family or friends to talk to. In 
addition to this Ms T has said shes taking  herbal  remedies, shes  read books to help her 
understand her condition  and she taken up hobbies to help her relax, such as knitting, yoga  
and meditation.  
Ms T has also told us that her GP is aware  that she left her job last year but continues  to 
diagnose her as unfit to return to work. And her understanding is that she is unfit to work  in 
any role, not just her normal occupation.
Ms T has also provided information about  the number of women in her age group who are 
unemployed. 
We asked Lloyds to consider  the steps  Ms T has told us shes taken. 
Lloyds have said that although the policy wording states mental  health,  anxiety and stress  
conditions are not covered unless diagnosed by a relevant  consultant, they are aware that 
this is increasingly difficult.  They dont want to penalise those customers  who are suffering 
with these conditions  and cannot work. So generally, they take a pragmatic approach  and, if 
its evident an insured  is receiving help of some kind, they would  not rule out accepting  a 
claim if they are receiving help, just because they havent been diagnosed by the correct 
person. And theyve  said certain mental  health support services allow you to sign up to and 
attend meetings  and you are then under their care.
Ref: DRN35617513But theyve said that in Ms Ts case although research has been  done into mental health 
conditions, theres been  no self or GP referral to any counselling or similar services. And 
they dont think  the steps taken by Ms T are enough  for them  to say she satisfies the policy  
criteria to qualify for benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have no record of Ms T asking our service whether seeing a consultant privately would  
make a difference to her claim. Had she done  so we could only have asked Lloyds to 
consider this. And as Lloyds have now said theyd  consider other steps taken by Ms T I dont  
think this makes a difference to the outcome of her complaint.
While I accept that Ms T has no control over whether  her GP refers her to a consultant, 
Lloyds have confirmed  that if Ms T had taken steps,  to self-refer herself to any counselling or 
mental health support services, theyd have  been  prepared to consider these. By saying this 
I think Lloyds have  recognised the difficulties Ms T has experienced in getting her GP to 
refer her to a consultant. 
I understand that Ms Ts GP continues to sign her off as unfit to work, but this doesnt mean 
that she meets the policy criteria to qualify for benefit. 
Ms T has told us the steps shes taken are helping her, and Im pleased to hear this. The 
steps shes told us shes taken suggest shes carried out research  and followed self-help  
guidance. But as shes not having any counselling or attending meetings, or seeing a mental 
health nurse, Im not persuaded that shes done enough to satisfy  the policy criteria to qualify 
for benefit,  through self-referral  to any mental health support services.
Ive considered the information that Ms T has provided about the levels of unemployment 
amongst women  in her age group. But her ability to find work with another employer isnt 
part of the policy criteria  I need to consider.
Although I dont dispute that Ms T has ongoing  health issues,  having considered all the 
evidence Im not persuaded that Ms T satisfies the policy criteria to qualify  for benefit. 
So, I dont think Lloyds  have done anything wrong in declining  Ms Ts claim  and I wont be 
asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms Ts complaint against  The Society  of Lloyds.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Ref: DRN35617514Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3561751