K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited  failed to deal promptly  or fairly with the issues 
arising when he sought to obtain probate in relation to his late mothers life assurance policy.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  two provisional  
decisions of 10 January and 4 February 2019. Copies of these are attached  and form part of 
this decision.
Phoenix did not respond to my latest  decision. Mr R said he accepted  its proposed 
compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  outlined  in my recent provisional  I am satisfied  that this complaint should be 
upheld with compensation as outlined in that decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Phoenix  Life Limited to pay the equivalent of six months  
interest  and at 8% simple interest  per annum  on the maturity sum that was due in the 
Autumn of 2017 of £122,333.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of Mrs R to accept or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39842532second provisional  decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited  failed to deal promptly  or fairly with the issues arising  when 
he sought to obtain probate in relation  to his late mothers life assurance policy.
background
The background  and circumstances  of this complaint are set out within my provisional  decision of 10 
January 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Phoenix said it had nothing to add.
Mr R said:
Phoenix said that it dealt with the complaint seriously and that he could expect a substantive 
reply as soon  as possible
While  he was in correspondence  with Phoenix he did not expect delays of two months or 
more to be the norm  in replying, especially not after the matter had been escalated
From 5 March 2018,  when it raised the question of resealing, it waited till 11 August to tell him 
it was not going to ever answer his query. This is five months
He submitted a complaint to this service on 1 May, expecting this to result in a speedy 
resolution of what  was a simple problem  particularly given  our leaflet states we may be able 
to sort things out within a few days
We did not address  his complaint properly until my provisional decision of 10 January  2019  
eight months later
It is therefore  unreasonable for the ombudsman to conclude that he had been slower to act 
than Phoenix and this service itself
He waited  till early  October, when an adjudicator  at this service gave his initial view, to look 
into the issue himself.  At this point his solicitor said that if resealing was required this would 
cost £2,500  in legal costs
He has since been told by a UK Probate Registry that he can simply apply for a separate  UK 
probate, which he has now done
Phoenix stated that he had to get a resealing through the UK courts; this advice  has now 
been proved  to be clearly wrong
The award  of interest should therefore be for more than two months
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered all Mr Rs additional points and agree with some of them. Crucially,  in my view, he has 
provided decisive new evidence which changes my view about Phoenixs  failings and therefore  how 
much late interest it should  pay.
According to the evidence he has provided   which  I have sent to Phoenix  his local Probate Office  
has confirmed that he can, and could have, simply  applied for UK Probate, even though Probate  had 
been granted  in Australia.
This, by definition,  would have been very significantly  cheaper, simpler  and more easily  obtained than 
applying to the High Court for the re-sealing of the Australian Probate  and could have happened a 
year ago if Phoenix had told him this.
Ref: DRN39842533I have always felt that Phoenixs responsibilities were limited in terms of advising  Mr R how to secure 
the necessary documentation to release these funds. It was not acting in an advisory capacity so it 
did, in my view, only have  to provide accurate information and treat any queries with appropriate 
professional responses  and promptly.
Given this was a complex request, I think  for example  it would have been perfectly reasonable for 
Phoenix to tell Mr R that it was not an expert on foreign  probate  issues and it could not be certain as 
to how to obtain the UK probate  it required. But it did not do this. Instead it gave him highly  inaccurate 
information, saying that the only way it could  and would release the funds is if he went through the re-
sealing process.  This turns out to be untrue.
With hindsight, this means Mr R was justified  in querying this, particularly given hed seen some 
evidence on the internet that this might not be right.  I therefore  feel his actions in waiting  for Phoenix 
to come back to him, particularly given it said it was actively considering  the issues hed raised, were  
fully justified.
I still believe that Mr R ought reasonably to have taken some more proactive steps himself  to resolve 
this issue.  For this reason I dont think it would be fair to award the estate interest on this money  to 
cover the full 12 months that have transpired since Mr R first approached Phoenix for assistance.
Without going  over the very detailed timeframe of who wrote what and when, I am satisfied that 
Phoenix should pay the equivalent of six months interest  and at 8% simple interest per annum   on 
the maturity sum that was due in the Autumn of 2017. I therefore currently plan to instruct it to pay this 
unless further evidence or arguments alter my view again.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Phoenix to pay compensation  as outlined  
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39842534first provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Phoenix Life Limited  failed to deal promptly  or fairly with the issues arising  when 
he sought to obtain probate in relation  to his late mothers life assurance policy.
background
Mr R says that his mother died abroad on 6 September 2017 and that he informed  Phoenix on 30 
January 2018. He says he made  it clear  that he was waiting probate to be granted which was delayed 
due to the administrative requirements in Australia where she had lived and died.
He complains that it wasnt until after he sent a copy of the probate  that Phoenix said it needed to get 
it re-sealed in the UK. He feels it shouldve  made him aware of this sooner.
He also complains  that it was unhelpful  when he asked how he could get the probate  re-sealed in the 
UK. To simply direct  him to www.gov.uk without further guidance or information wasnt enough.
An adjudicator at this service felt his complaint  should be upheld in part.
He thought Phoenix ought  to have known from Mr Rs letter of 30 January 2018 that he might be 
submitting an Australian grant of probate. So it should have made  him aware in its 13 February  letter 
that he would have to get it re-sealed in the UK before the funds could be released or that he would 
need to apply  for probate in the UK as well.
The adjudicator also felt Phoenix could have been more  helpful when  Mr R asked about the process  
for getting a grant  re-sealed. He didnt  feel that simply  referring him to a general government website 
was good enough  as it wasnt  made clear  where  the specific  information could be found. 
He didnt feel Phoenixs  offer of £50 for distress  and inconvenience was sufficient and felt this should  
be increased  by a further £150.
Phoenix agreed to this. Mr R didnt, and made the following comments:
It gave  him no information to help understand what it meant to have it re-sealed and to satisfy 
him that it was necessary.  It delayed, unreasonably and apparently wilfully,  the process  of 
settling the matter  and lied to him
In a letter  dated 22 March 2018 he asked where  in law it said that re-sealing was required and 
where at www.gov.uk  he would  find information. It repeatedly declined to answer  these 
questions, leaving  him with the impression  that it did not know and therefore  that re-sealing 
might not be required
In a reply of 29 March 2018 it said an investigation was underway  and on 19 April it said it 
was still looking into his concerns as if there was no ready  answer
On 1 May 2018 he found that no-one had been assigned the case  and he was sent further 
holding letters  until 29 May when it said it had followed unspecified legal guidelines  but still 
didnt answer his questions
Phoenix dragged  the matter out for another inordinate period and didnt reply until 11 August 
2018 when it said it was sending  the file to this service but the adjudicators view didnt arrive 
until 5 October 2018
Ref: DRN39842535As a result it held on to the £122,333 due to the estate for seven months longer than 
necessary. The whole complaint couldve been avoided if it had given him a straight timely 
answer to a simple request
He would  like Phoenix to compensate him for the fact that it continued to hold on to this 
money without paying interest and also to pay for the cost of the application to a UK court
As no agreement could  be reached  the complaint  has been  referred  to me to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I should  clarify that this service is only able to award  trouble and upset payments to the actual 
policyholder and not to their representatives, or representatives of their estates. So while I agree with 
the adjudicator  that Phoenix ought to have offered  Mr R at least  £200 given the impact  its failures  has 
had this is not something I can instruct it to do.
However, it is my role to consider whether the estate has lost out financially  as a result of any delays 
which were  due to Phoenixs actions or inactions. As the money has sat in an account earning no 
interest there has clearly  been a material loss of interest. So I have considered  how much of the 
delay, if any, was due to Phoenix.
Firstly, I believe that Phoenix ought  to have realised  from Mr Rs letter of 30 January 2018  that he 
had been applying for probate in Australia;  at the very least his reference to all the administrative 
requirements in Australia should  have led the advisor  to consider  this possibility. I therefore am 
satisfied that Phoenix  should have  clarified this issue at this point,  something which wouldve  resulted 
in Mr R realising  he needed  to get the Australian  grant of probate re-sealed in the UK far sooner. 
Phoenix did not communicate this information until 15 March (approximately six weeks later).
I also agree that its letter of that date could have been far more helpful  and that the general reference 
to the UK Governments overall website was, to put it mildly, of little use. Given  its earlier failure  to 
clarify this key issue I think it had a particular  responsibility to go the extra mile in this case and seek  
to assist Mr R with an issue he clearly had no prior knowledge of.
I also think  it contributed to the further delay by failing to deal promptly with his subsequent complaint.  
I understand why Mr R was not entirely  convinced by its advice that a UK re-sealing was a 
precondition for distributing the proceeds given  Phoenixs general service to date. I therefore feel it 
should accept a share of the responsibility for this further delay.
I do not, however, agree that it can reasonably held primarily  responsible for Mr Rs subsequent  
failure to take action necessary i.e. seek to get the re-sealing done in the UK but instead to focus on 
making a complaint to Phoenix.  In my view, he ought reasonably  have sought further  advice or 
explored the issue himself, including seeking to start the re-sealing application.
That said, I agree with him that Phoenixs  provisional responses where it refers to needing further 
time to investigate  his concerns was a factor in his decision to await final confirmation that re-sealing  
was essential. These holding letters added several  months to the overall delay.
What this means is that I am satisfied that Phoenix bears some responsibility for what turned  into a 
near seven  month  delay but far from all of it. Overall, I think that but for its various failures  Mr R ought 
to have been  able to get the re-sealing done roughly two months quicker,  with the rest of the delay  
broadly due to his failure to act more proactively.
Ref: DRN39842536I therefore  intend  to instruct to pay the estate of Mr Rs mother compensation  for this delay and the 
loss of interest resulting  from this. Normally this service would expect  interest to be applied from the 
key relevant date to the date of settlement of a complaint.  But in this case  there are many variables 
and uncertainties so that I do not believe  this is practical.
Instead, I plan to instruct Phoenix to pay compensation on the loss of interest on this £122,333  over a 
two month period by paying  the equivalent of 8% simple per annum.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Phoenix Life Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3984253