K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited (trading as Very) hasnt properly 
allocated a payment  of £250 she made to her account and, as a result, shes incurred 
additional interest and fees. Shed now like these refunded, a detailed explanation and any 
adverse credit information recorded against her removed.
background
Ms A has a shopping  account with Very where  some  items were bought on standard  terms 
and some on a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) basis. Ms A says in November 2017 she made a 
payment of £250  that she intended  to be used against her current  BNPL  account and any 
future purchases. She says two BNPL payments of £29.99 and £94.99 were taken out of the 
£250 but not the remaining £125.04.  Ms A says shes not satisfied all her payments have 
been properly  accounted for and shed like Very to confirm what payments have been made 
and how theyve been allocated.
Linked to this, Ms A says the £12 late payment fee she was charged in December was 
incorrect as the missed  payment should have been taken from the £250 shed paid the 
month before.  Shed like this refunded as well any adverse information about  this removed 
from her credit file.
But Very said Ms A hadnt marked the £250 payment to be used for her BNPL  account so it 
was allocated to her account  in line with the terms set out on her statement. As a result  
nothing was paid against her BNPL account which meant that the items were then allocated  
to her shopping account and interest  became payable. But it said it had refunded  this BNPL 
interest- together with the BNPL interest  for two other months- as a gesture of goodwill 
although it didnt  agree it had done anything wrong. But it didnt  agree  to remove  the £12 fee 
which it said had been correctly applied. And it said the information recorded on Ms As 
credit file was correct so it couldnt agree to amend this.
Ms A didnt agree shed  missed a payment so felt the £12 fee for this wasnt justified. And 
she was concerned that £125.04 of the £250  shed paid still hadnt been  credited to her 
account so she brought  her complaint to us.
Ref: DRN32669912Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said:
If a payments intended to be used to reduce the BNPL balance it needs to be 
specifically identified  for this. Otherwise  payments will be allocated to the accounts  
as set out on the monthly statements;
The payment  of £250 on 1 November 2017  wasnt specifically allocated to BNPL  so it 
was used to first pay off the overall account balance  of £132.64 on statement 154. 
This included £29.99  BNPL goods. The remaining  £117.36  (£250 - £132.64) was 
used towards five new BNPL purchases totalling  £158, leaving £40.64  to be paid. 
These new purchases are shown  on statement 155.
Statement 155 also showed a balance  of £135.63, made up of the £40.64 still due on 
the new purchases together with a BNPL balance  of £94.99.
Statement 155 required a payment by 8 December. However no payment  was made 
so Very applied  a late payment fee. She didnt think this was incorrect.
Our investigator said she was satisfied  the £250  had been properly allocated to Ms As 
account in line with the terms  and conditions. And because the payments had been  properly 
allocated, she couldnt say Very had been wrong to add interest to her account.  She noted  
however that that Very had now refunded the BNPL interest for three months  including  that 
shown on statement 155.
In the circumstances she couldnt say Very had done anything wrong and for that reason, 
she wouldnt  be asking it to do anything  more to resolve the complaint.
Ms A disagreed and said she still had a number  of concerns about her account and whether 
the payments  shed  made had been  properly credited to it. In particular she said shed 
bought five items (statement 155) but had returned  four totalling £108  and couldnt see that 
this had been credited to her account.  She wasnt  satisfied her account was correct and 
asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this isnt the answer Ms A was 
hoping for but having done so Ive come to the same conclusion  as the investigator and for 
the same  reasons as Ill now explain.
Payment of £250
The account  Ms A had with Very included all the items she bought but not all of them were 
bought on the same terms. Some items  were  bought  on a BNPL basis,  which  meant that 
when Ms A was making her monthly payment she needed to be clear  as to which account 
the payment was earmarked for. Unless she did, the payment was allocated  in line with the 
schedule set out on each statement. And this gave preference to the standard account and 
new items before the BNPL balance.
Ref: DRN32669913Ive seen Mrs A made a payment  of £250 on 1 November.  But it wasnt specifically marked 
as being for the BNPL account  so it was split with £132.64 being credited against her overall  
balance and the remainder ( £117.36\)  being  used towards her new purchases. The 
investigator has set this out in some detail and I agree with her calculations  on this and that 
the £250 was properly  credited to Ms As account.
As Ms A has said, she then returned 4 of the 5 new purchases. The value of these returns  
(£108) was then used to reduce the balance on statement 155 from £135.63 plus fees and 
interest to £60.28  so Im satisfied  the goods returned have been credited to her account.
Due to the statement cycle there  is sometimes  a short time lag between an item being 
returned and it being shown on the statement. However when the statements are looked  at 
overall Im satisfied the £250 has been properly applied  to Ms As account, including  the 
value of the returned items.
Late payment fee and interest
Ive seen Ms A says the BNPL balance of £94.99  had been covered  by the earlier  payment 
so this fee is wrong. But as Ive set out above, this wasnt  the case so I cant  say Very was 
wrong to apply this. And for the reasons given the payment of £250 wasnt allocated as Ms A 
had intended and so interest  became due but I cant agree Very was responsible  for this. 
However Ive seen that Very has now refunded three months BNPL  interest  (including  the 
interest arising out of the £250 payment) as a gesture of goodwill so Mrs A hasnt been 
disadvantaged by this. That seems reasonable to me.
Credit reporting
Very, like all lenders, is required to keep accurate records. I havent found that Very has 
made a mistake with the interest on Ms As account or the way the payments have been 
allocated and for that reason, I cant reasonably ask it to change  the information  its recorded 
against Ms As credit file. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer Ms A was hoping for but for the reasons given above  I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3266991