K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Kindertons  Ltd dealt with repairs to his car.
background
In late August 2018, Mr Cs car was involved in a road traffic accident. While parked,  his car 
was hit by a van and damaged. Mr C arranged to have some of the damage repaired at a 
local garage at the cost of £610. But other repairs were still needed. In October 2018, he 
instructed Kindertons, an accident management  company  (AMC), to deal with this.
In November 2018, Kindertons arranged for Mr Cs car to be inspected, and the repairs were 
done in December 2018. Mr C wasnt happy with the quality of repairs and complained to 
Kindertons in March  2019. Kindertons arranged  for the car to be re-inspected,  and this 
inspection found  that the original repairs hadnt been carried out to an acceptable standard  
and needed to be done again.
Kindertons told Mr C that they wouldnt be carrying out any more  work on his car. But they 
did offer Mr C £100 in compensation  of the service  hed received. Mr C was unhappy with 
Kindertons response,  and he brought  his complaint to the Claims Management Ombudsman 
(a Financial Ombudsman service) for investigation.
Our investigator initially said that Kindertons were responsible for the repairs to Mr Cs car, 
and these werent done to a satisfactory standard. So she recommended  that Kindertons 
pay for the repairs and increase their compensation  to £150. But she didnt think Kindertons  
should reimburse Mr C the £610  for the original repairs, because Mr C had chosen to have 
these done himself, before Kindertons were even  involved.
Kindertons didnt agree,  and said they didnt instruct the repairer,  Mr C did  they only 
provided a hire car and managed the claim. Because of this, Kindertons didnt feel they were  
responsible for the quality of repairs. And they said they couldnt force the repairers  to redo 
the work,  because theyre not one of their approved repairers.
Kindertons provided  additional evidence, including recordings of phone conversations, which  
showed that Mr C insisted on using his own repairers. Even  when Kindertons  told him how 
this may adversely  affect  his claim.  Because of this additional evidence, the investigator 
changed her view. She said that Kindertons werent  responsible for the repairs,  and she no 
longer recommended  they do anything  she thought the £100 theyd already offered Mr C 
was sufficient.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators second view.  He also raised additional complaints 
about how the invoices were paid.  But the investigator told Mr C that, because Kindertons  
havent had the opportunity to consider these additional complaints we wouldnt be able to 
look into them at this time. So Mr Cs asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision on 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32130752Having done so, and while I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr C; Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Up until 31 March 2019, AMCs were regulated by the Claims Management Regulator. And 
complaints about  AMCs were dealt with by the Legal  Ombudsman.  On 1 April 2019  the 
regulation of AMCs switched to the Financial Conduct Authority, and complaints moved to 
the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because  the events Mr C is complaining about took 
place before this change  in regulation, my decision is based on the approach the Claims 
Management Regulator and Legal Ombudsman  wouldve taken. 
The basic  facts in this case  arent  disputed, and Ive seen an handwritten  receipt for £610 for 
the initial repairs Mr C had done  to his car in September  2018.  Mr Cs garage put Mr C in 
touch with a third-party  company, who recommended he use Kindertons to deal with the 
remaining repairs to his car. Mr C first contacted Kindertons in mid-October 2018.
Kindertons arranged for an independent engineer  to inspect Mr Cs car. This inspection took 
place on 19 November 2018. The engineer said that the front bumper and wing would need 
replacing at a cost of £2,581. The engineer also said that the car wasnt  roadworthy without 
some repairs  taking  place. Mr Cs car was repaired, and he was provided with a hire car 
while these  repairs were  taking place.
But Mr C wasnt  happy with the quality of repairs and he raised this with Kindertons on 1 
March 2019. Kindertons arranged for another inspection, which took place on 14 March 
2019. The engineer who re-inspected Mr Cs car said that the original repairs  were very 
poor and the whole  repairs  need  to be carried out again.
Kindertons say that theyre unable to do anything about the quality of repairs. The repairer 
used was one Mr C chose  and wasnt part of their network. Because of this, they dont take 
responsibility for the work  that was done,  and they cant force  the repairer to redo the 
repairs. And, because Mr C was introduced to them through Mr Cs repairers and a third-
party company, they werent in a position to insist that Mr C used a network repairer.
Ive listened to the call when Mr C instructed Kindertons to act for him. In this call Mr C 
explained the circumstances of the accident and the damage  to his car. Kindertons agreed 
to provide a hire car. They  also said that Kindertons will use approved repairers on our 
network.  But Mr C said I prefer to use my garage  instead of a repairer recommended  by 
Kindertons. Kindertons said this was possible but explained they may not be able to offer a 
warranty for any repairs as Mr Cs repairer  wasnt part of their network. Knowing this, Mr C 
chose to go ahead with using his own repairers.
Im satisfied that Kindertons explained  the risks to Mr C - that they couldnt  warranty the 
repair - and Mr C continued to use his own garage  knowing this risk. Its unfortunate that the 
repairs werent completed to a satisfactory standard, even though Mr Cs repairers have 
been paid for the work. But I dont  think Kindertons have done  anything wrong by telling 
Mr C theyre unable to help him for the reasons theyve given. So, I wont be asking  them to 
do anything more.
Mr C will need  to approach his repairers  direct to try and rectify the original repairs.  And, if 
he has no luck, then an organisation  like Trading Standards may be able to advise or assist 
him. Its now for Mr C to decide whether to accept the £100 Kindertons  have offered or not. 
Ref: DRN32130753my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Kindertons  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3213075