K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about how Santander UK Plc dealt with a claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
background
Mr W bought a educational/subscription  package costing 2,999 US Dollars  from a third party 
business, which I will call B, using his Santander credit card. Hes explained that it was not 
as described, and not fit for purpose. Specifically, he said he was mis-sold the subscription, 
because it included share options for a product that B was then unable to fulfil. Further,  B 
said the e-learning materials were worth more than £8,000, but were  actually short  and low 
quality recorded  video monologues, with no structure. B refused to give a refund.
As he was unhappy  with this, he brought a claim to Santander under section 75. However,  
Santander declined  to meet the claim. This was because it said section  75 does not apply  to 
deposits into online gambling accounts  and crypto  currency schemes, which it considered to 
be what Mr W had purchased.
Mr W then complained to our service. One of our investigators looked  at what had 
happened. He noted that Santander  had declined the claim because the transaction  
revolved around  online gambling and crypto currencies. However, he didnt think  this was 
correct. He considered  that Mr W had purchased  a subscription for course  material  and the 
option to purchase  the crypto currency once it was released.
However, our investigator didnt think there  was sufficient  evidence that there  had been  a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  This was because the only information he had 
about what Mr W had bought was a receipt with the amount paid and the name  of the 
product, with no further details.
Mr W asked that his complaint be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party  might  have under 
section 75. Rather,  in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mr Ws complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other  things.  Section 75 is relevant law. Therefore, Ive 
taken it into account.  But that doesnt mean  Im obliged to reach the same outcome as, for 
example, a court might reach if Mr W pursued  a claim for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract. Our service is an informal alternative  to the courts.
The general effect of section  75 is that if Mr W has a claim for breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation against the supplier (B), he can bring a like claim against his credit 
provider (Santander).
So, Ive considered whether or not I think it was reasonable  of Santander to decline Mr Ws 
claim. Im aware it has said it considers  the transaction to relate to gambling/crypto-currency.  
Although Im perhaps inclined to agree, at least in part, I dont think  theres enough 
Ref: DRN39516972information about what Mr W bought to even  get this far. So, my decision does not turn on 
this.
I have seen no evidence  of what Mr W actually  bought, or was promised, except the names 
of the packages. This is a screenshot  which  says What youre gonna get, then lists 
portfolio blueprint,  research bundle, money  investment  package,  it takes a village 
package and digital underground. There is no information as to what  these include. A 
search to find historical webpages that may have more information  have  not shed any further  
light on this.
Although Im aware  Mr W is dissatisfied  with what he received (or, didnt receive),  I dont  
think it was unreasonable of Santander  to decline his claim.  This is because,  on a fair and 
reasonable basis, I dont consider there to be sufficient evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation  or indeed what any contract  related to.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision not to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2020.
Elspeth Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3951697