K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Virgin Money  plc wont refund to her the money that she paid for 
a conservatory.  
background 
Mrs N ordered a conservatory from a supplier in December 2016. She paid a deposit  of 
£1,333 using a credit card from another provider and in February 2017 she paid a further 
£1,602.05 on that card and £2,500 using her Virgin Money credit card. The conservatory 
was then delivered to her later that month  and she arranged for the installation to start in 
March 2017. But there were issues with installing the box-guttering so she complained  to the 
supplier. It inspected the installation and said that the dwarf-wall  had been built too low and 
that the box-guttering had been  altered since it was supplied. It suggested some solutions to 
Mrs N but they werent acceptable to her. 
Mrs N arranged for the conservatory to be inspected by an architect in May 2017 and she 
claimed refunds  from Virgin Money and the other  credit card provider under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  The other  credit  card provider refunded to Mrs N the payments 
that shed made for the conservatory and some  of her consequential  losses. Virgin Money  
credited her account  with £200  because  of the poor service that shed  received  but it didnt 
agree to refund any of the money that shed paid for the conservatory  or any of the 
consequential losses that shed claimed. She wasnt satisfied with Virgin  Moneys response 
so complained to this service. In recognition of the length of time that it had taken  to reach  a 
conclusion it then offered  her a goodwill gesture of £500. 
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that the 
supplier had misrepresented  the conservatory  to Mrs N because, in presenting the designs 
to her, it had omitted to make her aware of the level of work required and hadnt  made  sure 
that it was suitable for her property. And she said that it was worth mentioning that the other 
credit card provider had refunded its part of the deposit paid and also consequential  losses. 
So she recommended  that Virgin Money  should refund £2,500 to Mrs N.
Virgin Money has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
theres nothing that suggests that the supplier made a statement  about the box-guttering  that 
was untrue or misleading and that such a statement induced Mrs N to enter into the contract  
 so it doesnt believe that misrepresentation by omission is an acceptable finding and a 
reason to accept  her claim. It also says that the other credit card providers  decision 
shouldnt affect  the assessment of whether this claim objectively meets  the criteria for a 
section 75 claim. And it says that the investigator  hasnt addressed these issues:
Mrs N agreed to the suppliers terms and conditions  which  clearly state that the customer 
is responsible for supplying accurate  measurements and its not been provided  with any 
evidence to show that the parts  received were  not of the measurements supplied;
Mrs N signed-off the final drawings and plans as being satisfactory  and the plans 
contain multiple warnings  and disclosures in relation  to the customer responsibility in 
supplying measurements;
the box-guttering was never considered faulty  in itself and according to the terms and 
conditions which  Mrs N signed,  refunds will only be issued when goods are faulty; and
multiple attempts were made by the supplier to rectify the issue,  including  a thorough  
site visit and alternative offerings, which goes beyond  the suppliers obligations in the 
terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN34369712Mrs N arranged an inspection of the conservatory  by another  architect in November 2019 
and the architects  report says that Mrs N had supplied a dimension drawing to the supplier 
which showed that the measurement from ground  to soffit was 2.6m  but that the supplier  had 
annotated the drawing  to say assume 2450  dpc to soffit  and it concluded  that the 
incorrect assumption appeared  to be the source of the 150mm  height misalignment.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mrs N and to Virgin  Money on 12 December 2019  and having considered their responses  I 
issued a second provisional decision to them on 30 January 2020. In my second  provisional 
decision I said as follows:
Mrs Ns second architect has provided a photo of the partly-built conservatory and some 
comments in response  to my provisional  decision and Ive discussed his observations with 
him. As a result of his comments  I have  looked  again at all of the evidence.
The second  architect says that hes visited the site and the measurement  from the ground  
to the soffit is 2,600mm  and the dwarf wall thats been built is 600mm tall. So he says that 
the dimensions supplied by Mrs N were  in accordance with the site. The supplier says that 
the dwarf  wall is only 450mm  tall  but thats  not consistent with the second architects 
observations or the photo that hes provided.  So I consider that the dwarf  wall is 600mm tall 
and Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show  that its been built incorrectly.
I also consider it to be clear that Mrs N provided  the correct measurement  of 2600mm to the 
supplier for the distance from the ground to the soffit. Drawings were  prepared  which  show 
that the measurement from the ground  to the soffit was 2.6m. But on one of the drawings the 
supplier has noted  an assumption that the measurement was 2.45m from dpc to soffit. 
Virgin Money has referred to a plan that was created  by the supplier and which was 
provided to Mrs N. It shows  the height  of the conservatory as being  2450 and Mrs N 
has signed the plan to confirm that those details  for the conservatory are correct.  She 
signed another drawing which said:
Please sign and return this drawing to confirm all dimensions are correct. It is 
important that you check all the details and dimensions as errors cannot be rectified 
once the conservatory has been  manufactured.  The onus of responsibility lies with 
the customer for dimensional accuracy. [The supplier]  cannot  be held accountable 
should any of the sizes  be incorrect.
So Mrs N was aware of the need  to ensure that the dimensions were correct and she 
signed a plan showing the height  of the conservatory as being  2,450mm   150mm less 
than she wanted  it to be. The conservatory  was then manufactured using  those 
dimensions and is 150mm less than she wanted  it to be.
Im satisfied that Mrs N initially supplied the correct  measurement to the supplier.  And 
its not clear how or why that measurement was changed. But I consider it to be more 
likely than not that it was the result of an error by the supplier. Mrs N then signed the 
plan which  showed  the height  of the conservatory as 2,450mm and it was manufactured  
to that height.  I consider that it was an error by Mrs N to sign that plan.
Ref: DRN34369713I sympathise with Mrs N for the difficulties that shes been caused  as a result  of the 
conservatory being manufactured  with a height  of 2,450mm.  But Virgin Money  can only 
be liable  if theres  been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. And 
Im not persuaded that the suppliers error about  the height of the conservatory  (when  
considered together with Mrs Ns error  in signing the plan which showed the incorrect 
height) is enough  to be a breach of contract or misrepresentation  for which  Virgin Money  
would be liable under  section 75.
The supplier  has made suggestions for how the conservatory can now be completed by 
changes to the fascia and soffit - but those  suggestions havent  been acceptable to Mrs 
N. But I consider that Virgin Moneys  response to Mrs Ns complaint has been  fair and 
reasonable. Its already paid £200 to Mrs N because of the poor service  that shes  
received and it has offered her £500 as a goodwill gesture for the length of time that it 
had taken to reach a conclusion. If she now wants to accept that offer  and hasnt 
already done so  I suggest  that she contacts Virgin Money to see if the offer remains 
available to her.
So although  my reasoning  has changed, my provisional decision remains that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. And I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Virgin Money to: refund to Mrs N any of the money that she paid for the 
conservatory; pay her any compensation for any of the losses  that shes claimed; or 
take any other action  in response to her complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs N or Virgin Money, my second  provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs N has responded to my provisional  decision in detail and says, in summary,  that:
she provided  a drawing to the supplier in December  2016 that confirmed that the height 
from floor to soffit was 2,600mm (as well as other measurements) which is the correct  
ground to soffit measurement;
the supplier subsequently "assumed" a different measurement which  was six inches 
less but it didnt contact her or query the difference in measurement and applied it to a 
later set of drawings that she was requested to sign for the order  to go ahead;
she phoned  the supplier and told it that she couldnt verify any of the measurements but 
was told that unless she signed the drawings it would not proceed with the order;
the conservatory was ordered in December 2016,  it was received in February 2017 and 
installation began in March 2017;
the dwarf wall was not of imprecise construction and wasnt constructed with un-planed 
wood  it was solidly and properly constructed to the correct  height using newly 
purchased planed and treated timber;
she understands that the second  architect  has written a further  detailed  response;  and
she was supplied  with faulty goods, that werent  fit for the intended purpose,  there  were  
errors by the supplier, shes spent the last four years fighting Virgin Money  and it should 
refund her the money  that she paid for the conservatory  (with interest).
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments  including Mrs Ns response to 
my second  provisional  decision  - to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  But no further response has been  received from the second  architect.  
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my second  provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN34369714I consider it to be clear  that Mrs N provided the correct measurement of 2,600mm  to the 
supplier for the distance from the ground to the soffit. Drawings were  prepared  which  show 
that the measurement from the ground  to the soffit was 2.6m. But on one of the drawings the 
supplier has noted  an assumption that the measurement was 2.45m from dpc to soffit.
A plan was created by the supplier and provided  to Mrs N which  shows the height  of the 
conservatory as being 2450. Mrs N has signed that plan to confirm  that those details for the 
conservatory are correct. She says that she couldnt  verify the measurements  but signed  the 
plan so that the order could proceed.
The plan showed the height  of the conservatory as being 2450 in three different places. 
I accept that Mrs N wouldnt  have  been  able to verify  all of the measurements on the 
drawings. But she knew that the height  of the conservatory shouldve been 2,600mm  
which was different to the height  shown  on the plan  yet she signed the plan and confirmed 
that the dimensions were correct.
I sympathise with Mrs N for the difficulties that shes been caused  as a result  of the 
conservatory being manufactured  with a height  of 2,450mm.  But Virgin Money  can only be liable 
if theres been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier. And Im not persuaded 
that the suppliers  error about the height of the conservatory (when considered  together  with 
Mrs Ns error  in signing the plan which showed  the incorrect height) is enough to be a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation for which Virgin Money would be liable under section 75.
I consider that Virgin Moneys response  to Mrs Ns complaint  has been fair and reasonable. 
Its already paid £200 to Mrs N because of the poor service that shes received and it has 
offered her £500  as a goodwill gesture for the length  of time that it had taken to reach a 
conclusion. If she now wants to accept  that offer  and hasnt already done so  I suggest 
that she contacts Virgin  Money to see if the offer remains available  to her.
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Virgin  
Money to: refund  to Mrs N any of the money  that she paid for the conservatory;  pay her any 
compensation for any of the losses that shes claimed; or take any other  action in response 
to her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3436971