K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank Plc (trading at the time as Cheltenham  & Gloucester) mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  They  took out a PPI policy with a 
mortgage in 1984. Mr and Mrs T paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium,  which  
didnt attract interest.  It covered their mortgage payments in the case  of being out of work 
long-term because  of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment. Because of the time thats 
passed, there isnt a record of whether it covered one or both or Mr and Mrs T.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case. 
Having done that, I have  not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was about three and a half decades  ago and the accounts involved have long 
since closed. So its unsurprising that neither side have  all the original documents from the 
time. Mr and Mrs T dont remember buying PPI, but I think thats also understandable either  
way given that memories  can and do fade over time, that this sale was particularly long ago, 
and that buying insurance is not often  memorable.  Ive thought carefully about whats most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Lloyds to have added the PPI without 
Mr and Mrs Ts permission, or to have misled  them into thinking they had to have it. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats  what Lloyds did here.  From what Ive seen of its sales 
process from around the time, it looks like PPI wouldve been an optional extra and in order  
to get the policy  Mr and Mrs T wouldve specifically applied for it, separately to applying  for 
the mortgage itself.  Based  on the documents I do have  from their mortgage application, 
I cant see that PPI was listed as a requirement of their mortgage or that it was something 
they had to apply for as part and parcel  of the lending. And Ive not seen any wider  problems 
with Lloyds sales process from the time.
So overall, I think its most likely that Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs T a choice and they chose PPI 
at the time  though I can understand if they no longer recall doing  so after so many years. 
Mr and Mrs T mentioned that if theyd  known about  the PPI they wouldve cancelled  it when  
their interest rate rose down the line. But I dont think that keeping a policy is a reliable sign 
that someone didnt  want it. And it may well have been that as their interest rate rose they 
recognised it was important to protect their payments in case things went  wrong.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Lloyds if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs T, Ive 
assumed it did. That means Lloyds  had to check the policy was right for them.  And based on 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  Ive not seen 
any evidence showing that Mr and Mrs T were ineligible for the policy they took out, nor that 
they were significantly  affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN39364242Mr and Mrs T did say they had sick pay through work. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of that and it covered them for longer. And they dont seem  to have had any other protection 
in case one of them lost their job. Its worth  bearing  in mind that if they fell behind on their 
mortgage, Mr and Mrs T couldve lost their home. So it looks  like the PPI couldve really 
been useful for them  in protecting  their home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs T about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  I havent found that Mr and Mrs T were 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been  useful 
for them in case something went wrong. I dont think the PPIs  waiting  period  was too long  
it was normal for this type of policy as it was there to cover longer periods of time off work, 
and it would have  helped Mr and Mrs T keep their mortgage  safe in such  circumstances. So 
I dont think that better information was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
What the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs T any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
That means Lloyds  should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Lloyds should  also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% simple on 
payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN39364243My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3936424