K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc refused his chargeback  claim. He also complains 
about the poor service he received from branch staff.
background
Mr G asked Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax)  to process a chargeback for him for a 
holiday hed terminated early because he said it had been sub-standard. Halifax  initially 
proceeded with the chargeback and asked for a response from the holiday company. It 
considered the information it then received to be sufficient to decline the chargeback and 
wrote to Mr G explaining that it intended  to re-debit his account. However Mr G moved his 
balance elsewhere  and so the re-debit sent his account overdrawn.
Mr G complained to Halifax about  the actions it had taken saying, amongst other  things, that 
the bank should have  proceeded with his chargeback; that it had stolen money  from him by 
re-debiting his account; that he was vulnerable  customer with no overdraft facility on his 
account and so the bank  had no right to take money  that put him into overdraft; and that 
branch staff,  particularly the manager,  had been  aggressive and had treated  him badly. 
Having investigated  the complaint and spoken  to staff at the branch  involved, Halifax replied 
saying that it didnt consider it had done anything wrong. And it said that in the longer term, if 
Mr G didnt clear  his overdraft it would pass his account to its collections  team.
Mr G was unhappy with the banks reply  and so he complained to us.
In summary,  our adjudicator said he didnt think that Halifax had done anything  wrong.  
Although a number  of factors had contributed to Mr Gs decision to leave his holiday early 
essentially it was because  he was unhappy  with the behaviour and attitude of the holiday  
rep. This was a personal matter. But as the service for which hed paid (the holiday) 
continued to be available  to him the chargeback was bound  to fail.
With respect to the behaviour of branch staff our adjudicator said that as he hadnt  been 
there, and that staff had provided a different version of events from Mr G, he didnt have 
enough information to conclude that the manager  had treated  Mr G unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make clear at the outset that chargeback is a voluntary scheme  and that each 
scheme operator, here Visa,  sets its own scheme rules and is entitled to do so. If a bank 
believes that a customer may potentially have  a valid chargeback claim, it will initially  and 
temporarily refund the sum involved  to the customers account  whilst it gathers further 
evidence. Having done so, and based on the scheme rules, the bank will then decide 
whether the claim  should proceed. That is a legitimate decision for the bank to make and it is 
based on the probability of the claim being successful. If the evidence suggests that it will 
fail, the chargeback claim is refused.
Turning now to what happened here,  Mr G had booked a UK short  break from 24-27 
December 2018,  but he left early  on 26 December because he was unhappy with the service  
provided. He said the accessible room hed booked and paid for wasnt  available and the 
Ref: DRN30826622hotel wasnt expecting him. He said he wasnt offered any help by the rep and had to resolve 
the room booking himself  believing  hed have to pay again. Fortunately he didnt.
He said that he was very dissatisfied with the holiday and mentioned in particular that the rep 
wasnt available when  he should have been and often  appeared to have been drinking. 
Additionally a member  of a performing theatre group  threatened some  guests  and the rep 
refused to take any action. Mr G said he felt he had no option  but to curtail his holiday.
In response to Mr Gs complaint the holiday company said it had carried out a full 
investigation and had sought feedback from hotel staff, other  guests and the rep. The 
company was satisfied  that the event  had been run to the professional standards  it would 
have expected, although it apologised  for the initial confusion about Mr Gs room. It paid him 
£50 compensation  in recognition of his decision to leave the holiday early.
The holiday  company submitted its various  exchanges of correspondence with Mr G to 
Halifax along with an explanatory letter. The fact that Mr G was unhappy with the holiday,  
and decided to leave early, doesnt mean  that the service hed paid for hadnt been provided 
or that it was of a sufficiently poor standard to support  a chargeback  claim.  Having 
considered all of the evidence  I am satisfied that the banks decision not to proceed with the 
chargeback was reasonable.
Mr G had submitted his chargeback claim on the phone during a branch visit and Halifax has 
provided us with a recording  of the relevant phone call. Mr G was clearly  told that the bank 
needed more  evidence to support his claim to Visa.  But in the meantime the money  might  be 
put back in his account temporarily and he was given a direct phone  number for the disputes 
team should  he need it.
Following this discussion Mr G should have been  in no doubt that the refund was at that 
stage temporary and therefore  that it could be re-debited if Halifax  subsequently determined 
that the evidence didnt  support a chargeback  claim. Having subsequently concluded that Mr 
Gs chargeback case was insufficiently persuasive to pass  on to Visa,  Halifax  wrote to inform  
him that it would re-debit  his account.  In an attempt to prevent  that happening  Mr G moved 
his money elsewhere  believing that the bank wouldnt take money from his account when his 
balance wouldnt cover it. But Mr G was mistaken about this and Halifax  was entitled  to take 
back the money temporarily  paid to him, irrespective of whether there was an overdraft 
facility on the account.  
Mr G has also complained  about  his treatment by branch staff whilst pursuing his 
chargeback claim. He said the manager  was rude and aggressive and threatened to call the 
police. The information from branch  staff is rather different as it states it was Mr G who was 
aggressive and that staff considered calling  the police because  of his behaviour. I wasnt  
there so clearly cannot know what was said and how both Halifax staff and Mr G responded 
to each other. And whilst  I am content to accept that Mr G felt upset about what had 
happened Im afraid that I dont have sufficient  evidence  safely  to conclude  that branch staff 
behaved unacceptably.
I know that Mr G will be disappointed with my decision, but Im afraid that I do not uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN30826623Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3082662