K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy at the way Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) has dealt 
with their mortgage account. In particular, they are upset that an arrears marker was placed 
on their credit files, even though they say they have never  been  in arrears. 
They are also unhappy at Halifaxs customer service because it failed to update  their 
telephone number and instead called their daughters number. 
Mr and Mrs A are dissatisfied with the way in which Halifax has dealt with their complaint 
about the call to their daughters number. Halifax offered compensation for this but paid it 
into an account which they hold on trust for their sons savings.
background
Mr and Mrs A have  a mortgage with Halifax. Their monthly repayment is due to be paid by 
direct debit on the 28th of each month.  But on 28 September 2018,  a Friday, they made the 
payment by using  the Faster Payment method. 
Because of the intervening weekend, payment wasnt credited to the account  until 1 October 
2018 and so was counted as Octobers  payment. Halifax therefore considered Septembers 
payment to have been missed and showed this on Mr and Mrs As credit  files.
An arrears  letter was sent in December 2018 and Mr and Mrs A complained. Halifax  asked 
for proof of payment  and, after receiving this, it amended the credit  file. 
During the course of the complaint, Halifax unfortunately called Mr and Mrs As daughters 
number. This was after Mr and Mrs A had updated their phone  number. Halifax paid 
compensation of £75 for trouble and upset and £8 for telephone calls arising from this. It 
credited this to an account which is held in trust for Mr and Mrs As son.
Mr and Mrs A complained to us. An adjudicator  looked at the complaint. He thought  the 
compensation of £83 already paid by Halifax was reasonable  for any inconvenience caused  
by calling the wrong number. He asked Halifax to pay a further  £50 for paying  the 
compensation into the sons savings account, which Halifax agreed to do.
But he didnt  think Halifax had done anything wrong  in relation to the credit file and so didnt 
uphold that part of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs A didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. Mr and Mrs A say they had no reason 
to check their credit files as the thought theyd made the September 2018  payment on time. 
They say this is a serious complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A also say that theyve called  Halifax  several times on their updated phone 
number and so they argue that the onus is on Halifax,  not them, to update its systems.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32486012I will explain  at the outset  that my role is to review the complaint. Ive read everything 
provided and Ive listened to the available phone  calls. Im not required to set out here a 
chronology of events,  particularly  as the adjudicator has done so in his two detailed letters 
dated 6 and 7 March  2019. All parties  have copies  of those  letters and so I dont need to 
repeat all the detail  here.
I can see that this complaint has arisen  out of a genuine misunderstanding on the part of 
Mr and Mrs A that a payment made on a Friday would be applied to their account 
immediately. Unfortunately it wasnt, and so a missed payment marker was added to their 
credit files, because the following Monday was the start of a new month.
Im glad to see Halifax has now removed the credit  marker. Although Mr and Mrs A say this 
is a serious matter, theyve provided  no evidence to suggest they have been refused credit 
or suffered any other financial loss or detriment as a result of the missed payment  being 
marked on their credit  files. They have declined to provide  a copy of their credit files, either  
to Halifax or to us. Neither Halifax nor the Financial Ombudsman Service  has access to 
these.
As far as the telephone number is concerned, Halifax  (in line with standard  banking  practice)  
requires customers to ask for a phone number to be updated. Even  if calls are regularly 
made from a different  number, Halifax wont automatically change  the number registered  on 
the account to that other number, unless its asked to do so by the customer. So Im satisfied 
Halifax has done nothing  wrong here.
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs A asked  Halifax  to change the number before December 
2018. Theres no record of this in the account history. Unfortunately  Halifax later called 
Mr and Mrs A on their daughters number,  which was a mistake.  Halifax acknowledged this 
and paid compensation of £75 for trouble  and upset and £8 for the calls  but into a childs 
trust savings  account. 
I think the compensation of £83 is fair and reasonable for the upset and inconvenience  
Mr and Mrs A have  been put to. I can see that there have been some customer service 
issues around calls,  but Im not persuaded there has been any serious error by Halifax, as 
suggested by Mr and Mrs A. 
I think there have been a few minor customer  service issues  in relation to telephone  calls 
which, taken as a whole, have had a cumulative  effect in causing  upset to Mr and Mrs A. But 
in relation to the underlying issue in the complaint  the late payment and the marker on the 
credit file  I dont think Halifax has done anything  wrong.
After paying compensation into the wrong  account, Halifax  offered further compensation of 
£50 for any inconvenience caused by this. A complaint about how compensation for a 
previous complaint has been paid isnt a regulated activity  covered by our rules,  so I cant 
comment any further on this, or award  any compensation. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs A 
to decide if they want  to accept the £50 offered  by Halifax  for its error.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Thats because Im satisfied the 
compensation of £83 paid by Halifax for poor customer service  is fair and reasonable. I leave 
it to Mr and Mrs A to decide  if they want to accept the further  £50 compensation offered by 
Ref: DRN32486013Halifax for paying compensation into the wrong account. As explained above, thats not an 
issue I can consider here. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248601