K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage in 1993 with Business A. Later  they bought a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2004. Mr and Mrs P say from memory  they bought the 
PPI from someone who stood outside the local supermarket.
In 2006, Mr and Mrs P re-mortgaged their property with another  business.  Around the same 
time, St Andrews Insurance  Plc (St Andrews),  the business responsible  for the 
administration of the policy and which has taken responsibility for this complaint, changed 
the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs P complain that this change meant that they 
couldnt claim the benefit they thought they had subscribed to and for which  they were 
paying.
Mr and Mrs P cancelled  their policy in February  2016. 
background
In April 2019 I issued  my first provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
In summary  I said:
Mr and Mrs P were  paying for a policy with the intention  that it provided a monthly 
benefit of £550  each  if they made a successful claim. The original benefit was 
worked out to give them a benefit  which equalled their mortgage repayments  plus 
mortgage related  payments to a maximum benefit  of £1500.
The terms and conditions changed  in 2006,  a couple of years  after Mr and Mrs P 
bought the cover. I couldnt say that St Andrews had notified Mr and Mrs P about that 
change. This change  related to how the maximum benefit would be calculated. 
These terms now stated this would provide an amount equal to the monthly mortgage 
payment plus mortgage related payments up to a maximum of £2000 or 125% of the 
mortgage payments  whichever is the lesser; bringing all its customers  on to the same 
terms.
Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage repayments were  reducing because  of the changes in 
interest rates and they complained that the amount they could claim following the 
change in policy terms and conditions meant  that they could no longer benefit  from 
the full £550 they had applied for; even though they were paying the same  premiums.
Mr and Mrs P were  prompted to question  the cover in place when they received a 
letter telling them their cover was less than they thought it would be. When they 
became aware  of this change to the conditions they complained to St Andrews and 
cancelled their policy.
Mr and Mrs P said there would be no way of proving they would get the benefit  of 
£550 until they had cause  to make a claim.
I said that St Andrews  said that they would  receive the monthly  benefit  they were  
expecting. The benefit was a fixed benefit and hadnt changed throughout the life of 
the policy. In its final response letter of May 2017  it said the policy  had held a 
Ref: DRN32114002monthly claim benefit of £550 since the inception  of the policy up until its cancellation 
date.
The screen shots provided showed  the benefit  payable under this policy would be 
£550. St Andrews also said the policy wasnt linked to the mortgage directly  and 
would have only varied once notified of a change by the customer.
St Andrews also said that it did not have access to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage 
information and payments  so the benefit  would only ever change  if Mr and Mrs P had 
contacted St Andrews  and provided evidence  of the mortgage  change and taken out 
a new policy. It said the monthly  premium  Mr and Mrs P were paying  of £53.90 was 
reflective of the policy benefit of £550 - so it told Mr and Mrs P that it had correctly 
administered the policy and therefore it was unable to uphold the complaint.
I said I didnt think the different  policy terms would have made any difference to the 
amount Mr and Mrs P could claim when their mortgage repayments had decreased.
The policy was clear  that it would provide the benefit  as stated on the insurance 
schedule. How the amount was originally worked  out was based  on certain maximum 
amounts specified  in the terms and conditions. When the terms changed relating to 
how the maximum amount was calculated it was likely this would have been based 
on different levels of maximum mortgage  payments. But I said Mr and Mrs P had 
already taken out the policy and the insurance benefit was based  on the cover 
Mr and Mrs P took out originally.
I also said when Mr and Mrs P cancelled the policy and raised a complaint, St 
Andrews had offered  to reinstate  the policy at the same  level of cover for the same 
monthly premium. So I had no reason to think that all St Andrews would have paid 
out would  be limited to 125% of Mr and Mrs Ps minimum monthly  mortgage  
repayments.
I said that I didnt think  this PPI was linked to their mortgage   it was a stand-alone 
policy. There was nothing to show St Andrews would have interpreted the terms and 
conditions in the manner put forward by Mr and Mrs P. I thought it was more  likely 
that the sums set out in the insurance schedule would have been  paid and I didnt 
think theyd lost out financially as a result  of anything St Andrews  did wrong when it 
changed the terms and conditions. So I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P came  back to me. They were unhappy  with my provisional decision and 
replied to my points. I will summarise what they said:
Mr and Mrs P thought I had over-complicated the matter.
They havent complained about  any mis-sale   this was on the basis  of advice by us. 
And Mr and Mrs P say we were  trying to pigeon  hole this complaint  into one category 
or another  and it didnt make  any difference which category the complaint fitted into- 
it does not change the validity as a complaint in any way.
Ref: DRN32114003Mr and Mrs P say that they chose their benefit  under the policy to be their mortgage 
payment plus a little extra to help with other bills and it was intended  to be a 
straightforward money purchase scheme.
After St Andrews took over responsibility  and changed the terms - Mr and Mrs Ps 
main point  is that this new policy wouldnt pay out more than the minimum set out in 
the key facts document. This stated it would pay an amount equal to the monthly 
mortgage payment  plus mortgage related payments  up to a maximum  of £2000 or 
125% of the mortgage  terms whichever is the lesser. Mr and Mrs P say this 
statement is not open to any interpretation.  And they say a court  would not interpret it 
in another way.
They saw no need to keep St Andrews up to date with the amount of their mortgage 
as they only realised it was linked to their mortgage  when they read the annual 
review letter from St Andrews. And they ask why they would have contacted  
St Andrews mid-way  through  to check they had the right policy.
The screenshots I refer to are cherry picked evidence. The letters come from another 
computer system that contradicts the screenshots.
On making a claim St Andrews would likely want some evidence  to validate their 
claim.
The documentation  sent by St Andrews in the form of the annual  review statement 
contradicts what I have said about Mr and Mrs P retaining  the same amount of cover.
Mr and Mrs P cant understand the basis on which my assertion that I cant say the 
change in terms and conditions would have made a difference to the benefit  specified 
as covered in the insurance schedule  was made.
Whilst there was nothing to say St Andrews would have interpreted the terms and 
conditions in the manner put forward by Mr and Mrs P  there  was nothing to show 
that they wouldnt either. But they say it was clear  that the law would oblige them to 
pay 125% of the mortgage repayment. And although the annual  statement seems to 
say that they have  retained the cover expected, it is immediately  followed by the key 
facts, which limits the liability to 125% of the mortgage. And because  of the ambiguity 
Mr and Mrs P cancelled  the policy.
In June 2019 I decided to issue a second  provisional  decision to answer Mr and Mrs Ps 
concerns following my first provisional decision.  I wanted  to ensure that I had dealt  with all 
the detailed specific  points Mr and Mrs P had raised  and make  sure Mr and Mrs P had the 
opportunity to make any final representations  they wanted to make as I realised  how 
important this decision is for them. I said in this provisional decision.
The sale of the policy happened a long time ago so its understandable if 
Mr and Mrs P cant quite  remember all the details about who they bought  the original 
policy from. For the purposes of my decision it does not matter  who sold the original 
PPI policy.
For me to make my decision  about Mr and Mrs Ps complaint,  I will need to decide 
whether Mr and Mrs P suffered detriment when  St Andrews (not the original  seller  of 
Ref: DRN32114004the policy) changed  the terms of the policy. I will come to this point later as this is the 
heart of this matter.
This is not a mis-sale complaint. Thats because Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is not 
about the original  sale of the policy. If Mr and Mrs P had said they were  mis-sold the 
original policy then that would be brought against the original business who sold the 
policy. 
This complaint is brought against St Andrews who is the underwriter and the 
administrator of the policy because it changed the terms some years after the original  
sale (which is accepted) and this is what the complaint is about. Mr and Mrs P say 
this change caused them detriment as they were paying for a level of cover which  
they wanted but wouldnt be covered for after the terms had changed if they had 
made a claim.
So it makes  a difference about how we categorise this complaint.  As a mis-sale 
complaint this would  not be brought against  St Andrews who did not sell the original 
policy. All I can consider  for the purposes  of this matter  is whether St Andrews did 
something wrong when  it altered the terms and conditions and whether this would 
have changed  Mr and Mrs Ps mind. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are clear that the change in terms would  have meant 
they would  have cancelled the policy which  they would have considered was no 
longer of use to them. And in fact this is what they did when they thought they were  
paying for something which  wouldnt  have paid out what they expected. 
Mr and Mrs P are also clear that they consider the key facts  document  supplied by 
St Andrews  would be the document  which would prevail in making a decision about  
what benefit to pay to them. I dont agree this point. I do accept that its possible the 
terms when read together with the schedule of insurance conflicted with each other.  
But where there is a conflict then I think the interpretation of the paperwork would 
likely be read based on evidence of the intentions of the parties. On balance  I only 
think the conflict arose when the mortgage  repayments started  to decrease. The 
mortgage repayments did not decrease immediately after St Andrews changed  the 
terms and conditions. From the mortgage statements this would  only have happened 
in 2009 when the mortgage interest rates  reduced - some three years after St 
Andrews changed  the terms. Before this I can see that the expected mortgage 
repayments were still at a higher level.
On balance I think the schedule which is tailored specifically for Mr and Mrs P to 
reflect how much they were paying and what benefit  would be payable was a 
document specific to them. The key facts  document is a generic document. Overall  I 
think it was the intention of both parties to offer and have a benefit of £550 per month 
for a cost which was worked out based  on the amount of the benefit required. Overall  
on balance I think thats what  would have been  paid if Mr and Mrs P had made a 
claim. So In my view any change in terms and any conflict would not have made any 
difference.
I think the schedule  of insurance would be the paperwork which would prevail over 
the generic key facts document. I accept Mr and Mrs P disagree with me here but 
this is not based on anything other than their assumptions. I need to make  my 
decision based on balance of probabilities and whats  fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN32114005 
On balance of probabilities, I think  St Andrews would have paid out the amount  set 
out in the schedule. To be clear, I think that would be the £550 not £50 as 
Mr and Mrs P have  stated. I dont doubt that this is their honestly held belief but there 
is nothing to base  this belief on. I think it would be fair and reasonable to decide that 
St Andrews  would pay out the amount subscribed  to on the tailored specific schedule  
 not the generic key facts document.
I also dont think it an unreasonable expectation  for an individual to contact the 
insurers mid-way  through a policy if circumstances change. I can see that 
Mr and Mrs Ps cost of their mortgage  reduced substantially in 2009  around  three  
years after the policy  terms changed so I would  have expected for them  to have 
informed the insurers of this. I also think its more likely  than not that the 2016 annual 
review statement sent by St Andrews would have been sent to Mr and Mrs P each 
year so if theyd wanted to question anything they could have done so before 2016.
The screenshots show that the benefit payable would  be £550 and the amount of the 
premium payable. These are contemporaneous  documents so I have no reason to 
think they are inaccurate. They also reflect the schedule and the intentions  of the 
parties which also leads  me to conclude its more likely on balance that this is what  
Mr and Mrs P were  paying and what they were insured  for.
This was a stand-alone policy. So it wasnt tied to a particular mortgage. I said in my 
provisional decision that St Andrews confirmed the amount  of cover was for the 
amount set out on the insurance  schedule. I have no reason  to think this wasnt the 
case. Mr and Mrs P say that there  are two views and there  is no evidence to say 
what would have  been paid. As Mr and Mrs P havent made a claim I cant  say for 
sure what  would  have  happened. But as I explained above I need to decide this case 
on balance of probabilities. And for the reasons Ive given  I think on balance  the 
schedule was the document which St Andrews would likely  have relied  on for the 
amount to pay out. So my view is not the same as Mr and Mrs Ps view.
I agree  that St Andrews would ask for evidence  of any claim. But I think  this would be 
evidence about Mr P losing his job or having  an accident  or being ill, in line with 
St Andrews requirements.
 If Mr Ps mortgage repayments  would  have increased then I still think  St Andrews 
would have paid him the amount set out on the schedule - £550  - just as it would if 
the mortgage repayments had decreased.  He took out a policy,  he paid for cover of 
£550 which is clearly  set out on the schedule and on balance  this is what I think St 
Andrews would have  paid.
Its possible that St Andrews failed  to give Mr and Mrs P all the information it should 
have done when it changed the policy terms but I next need to decide whether  it 
would have made a difference.  I dont  think it would have  done.  As I have explained 
above, I think the schedule of insurance  would be the relevant document  to decide 
what should be paid out if Mr and Mrs P made  a claim  (which  they didnt). It is also 
my view that the mortgage  repayments did not decrease until around three years 
after St Andrews changed  the terms of the policy. So I have no reason to think Mr 
and Mrs P would  have done anything differently in 2006 when the terms changed 
even if they were given all the information they should have been.
Ref: DRN32114006I didnt think Mr and Mrs P lost out financially so I said I wasnt  intending to uphold  this 
complaint.
I will sum up what Mr and Mrs P said following my second provisional decision. I want to 
assure them that Ive taken everything  theyve said into account  in making my findings below 
 even if a particular point is not included in this summary. 
It was a clear fact that the maximum liability St Andrews had under the law (per 
the written document sent to us) is 125% of their mortgage  payment. 
Mr and Mrs P said they saw no explanation why this was being ignored and they 
were still waiting for an answer  based on the clear  written  legal obligations - not 
what amounts to anything  more  than guesses as what might happen in certain 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P had said in a previous letter that even if St Andrews had paid back 
the expected £550  per month in the schedule,  they would have been perfectly 
entitled for years after the event to come  after them  to reclaim the overpayment.  
Mr and Mrs P thought this scenario was perfectly  feasible   in the event of an 
audit, or even an assessor simply looking at the documented facts  and liabilities 
after the event,  St Andrews would have been  perfectly and legally entitled to 
come after them for that money.
Although the key facts document was generic it still stated that in the event of a 
claim they would  be paid 125% of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage payments. 
Mr and Mrs P were  concerned that in a court  of law they wouldnt be able to 
make any legal  case that would hold water  to receive anything  other  than 125% 
of their mortgage repayments.
They asked on what grounds  had I decided that St Andrews would pay out more 
than they were legally  obliged  to pay. If my decisions werent based on actual 
facts then why was it possible or reasonable, to give all the benefit of the doubt  to 
one party or another.
The St Andrews screenshot saying it gave a benefit of £550 a month has no legal 
weight whatsoever  in determining St Andrews financial liabilities - only the 
document in black  and white  does  that. The amount of people  in the country who 
would think that St Andrews or any insurance company would pay out more  than 
they were legally obliged to would  be few. 
They were concerned I had made a decision based on a feeling or a guess as to 
what might  happen in the event  of a claim. Mr and Mrs P accepted  that there was 
a vacuum where hard facts were  concerned  and they failed to see why it was fair 
for a decision to be made wholly in favour  of St Andrews based on what is no 
more than a guess. Mr and Mrs P said that at best a guess  has a 50/50  chance of 
being right.  But a point  ignored is that St Andrews  could come back  to them  and 
claim back the sums paid out.
They asked what evidence there was to support St Andrews paying the full 
amount of the claim.  It was important to Mr and Mrs P because  they had paid out 
large sums in insurance premiums for years for PPI they say would do nothing  
more than pay £50 a month in the event  of a claim.  They  say there  is zero 
evidence that would  prove  otherwise. They asked  again  for a refund of the 
Ref: DRN32114007premiums for the period  where the question  of the level of any pay-out was 
questionable. And they say that there was a lack of willingness to demonstrate 
good faith by St Andrews by granting a reasonable request  for clarification.
St Andrews  didnt have  anything  further to add to my provisional  decisions but I asked it for 
more information  and clarification about  how the claim would be assessed  and about  how 
much it would pay out in the event of the claim.
It confirmed that the monthly benefit  would  be set at the start of the policy - in this case 
£550. It also told me that the schedule of insurance would just confirm  the monthly benefit to 
the customer and it wouldnt need  to be referred to during  the claim assessment as the 
benefit was already set on its internal system  records.
I also asked what evidence St Andrews would require in the event of a claim.
It told me there  would be no requirement  to provide Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  repayments in 
the event of a claim. The only evidence required would be Mr and Mrs Ps unemployment or 
evidence of their accident  and sickness.
It said the monthly benefit will always be based  on the £550.The  only time the monthly  
benefit would change is if Mr and Mrs P requested this themselves and then Mr and Mrs P 
would need to send in this request. If it was mortgage related St Andrews told me that it 
would need proof of the increase.
It set out;
You may apply to increase the amount of Your Monthly  Benefit if Your Mortgage 
Payment increases.  The effective date of these  changes will be the date We accept Your 
application to increase  the Monthly Benefit.   Any Increase in Benefit will not be taken into 
account if You are receiving Monthly Benefit  under  the policy  or are aware of an impending 
claim at the time You apply for an increase.
It also clarified that it would not increase the benefit  because there was an increase in the 
interest, the claim would  still be paid at £550.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im mindful of Mr and Mrs Ps point that they [St Andrews] would say that wouldnt they  
about its response confirming that it would pay £550 if Mr and Mrs P had made a claim. But 
Ive taken everything into account including what both parties have told me and as Ive 
explained I have  to decide this matter on the balance of probabilities  that is what  is more  
likely.
To be clear, we are not a court of law. We are an alternative dispute resolution  service and 
while I have regard to the law and take it into account, we make  decisions that are fair and 
reasonable. As stated above  I have  had regard to all the evidence  and arguments  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32114008This is a situation which hasnt been  put to the test because Mr and Mrs P have never made 
a claim on the PPI. I think thats accepted.  So while we cant  say for sure what  would happen 
in the event of Mr and Mrs P making  a claim,  Im deciding whats more likely than not 
weighing all the evidence  including what both parties have said.  
In both my provisional decisions  I have  said that I thought on balance it more likely  that 
St Andrews  would pay out the amount set out in the schedule  which  shows  what  
Mr and Mrs P were  covered  for. The £550  benefit is also set out in the internal screen  shot 
records. And St Andrews  has clarified  this for me and confirmed that it would pay out the 
amount of £550  in the event of a claim. 
I have also explained  that this schedule  is bespoke and is personal to Mr and Mrs P. So I 
have no reason to disbelieve  that St Andrews would pay £550  on Mr and Mrs P making  a 
claim. Taking the picture  in the round I think its more likely  that St Andrews would pay out 
the benefit as set out on the schedule.
I think the key facts summary is simply the document which set out how a business should 
calculate the sums at the start of the policy. The key facts document  put some doubt on 
things, but in my view there is more weight of evidence that the benefit was bespoke to 
Mr and Mrs P rather than generic. This was a standalone product and the evidence required 
to make a claim has clarified  for me that I still think it was also more likely that St Andrews 
didnt take into account any mortgage repayments  being made.  St Andrews  would only take 
into account evidence  of Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances - their unemployment or their 
accident and sickness - in order to pay out on their claim if they had made one.
In response to Mr and Mrs Ps point  that if St Andrews paid out a claim based on the 
schedule, then it would be entitled to claw back the overpayment it made because this was 
not the amount Mr and Mrs P would be entitled  to as set out in the terms and conditions.  But 
from our experience I dont think thats right. I dont agree that once St Andrews paid out a 
claim they would  clawback overpayments if they had been made. Any claim in this situation 
would be made  on an honest expectation of receiving the amount set out in the schedule  
and in good faith. Read  together  with other evidence for example the screenshots and the 
amount of premiums Mr and Mrs P were paying,  I think the schedule would show  the parties 
intentions. 
In summary,  I think St Andrews would have paid out the sums set out on the schedule. This 
is what I have decided  based on the balance  of probabilities. I think the weight of evidence  
points this way as I have explained as opposed to paying out what Mr and Mrs P have said it 
would pay. I cant  be sure but on balance I think taking into account all the evidence 
available its more likely that St Andrews would  pay out £550. So I dont think Mr and Mrs P 
lost out financially as a result  of anything St Andrews did wrong  and I dont uphold this 
complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 September 2019.
Ref: DRN32114009Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3211400