K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1999 and 
2004. Mr C says Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr C bought a regular premium PPI policy  to cover a mortgage in 1999  and a Total 
Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2004.  TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage 
Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI),  life cover and critical illness cover.  Mr C 
complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the PPI cover only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr C aware that the PPI policies were  optional and gain his consent 
before adding the PPI to his mortgage.  When Mr C applied for the PPI in 1999 he completed 
an application form separate to his mortgage and signed separately to take the policy.
There isnt much paperwork  available  from the sale of the policy in 2004, but Mr Cs 
mortgage illustration  includes PPI and from what we know about how Halifax sold this type 
of policy  at the time I think its likely  Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional  and 
gained Mr Cs consent before adding it to his mortgage.
 
So overall I think Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt  have  to take out the PPI policies and 
that he chose  to take them out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. Mr C has told us he was entitled  to sick pay when he took the PPI and had savings. But 
the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay and for longer. It would also have 
allowed Mr C to keep his savings in place to be used towards any other essential expenses  
he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But for the policy sold to Mr C in 1999 Halifax will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr C because: 
Ref: DRN33219642Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Halifax has also told us that it doesnt  think it done anything  wrong  when it sold Mr C the 
policy in 2004,  and as I dont think this policy was mis-sold Halifax  doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has offered to pay back  some of the cost of the policy.  
So I dont  think it needs to do anything more. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3321964