K821x#15complaint
Mr M on behalf of C, a limited company, has complained  about  the way AXA Insurance UK 
Plc handled a subsidence  claim under Cs commercial  property  flats policy.
background
In 2009 C made a claim to AXA for subsidence  damage. C paid the £1,000  policy excess  
due under the policy.
AXA obtained a specialist report which said that trees  on a neighbours property were  
causing the damage. The offending trees on the neighbours land and some  trees  on Cs 
land were cut down.
AXA appointed solicitors to investigate the possibility of making a claim against the 
neighbour to recover its costs. In 2015 C asked  AXA to try to recover  the excess  payment as 
well.
In March 2017 AXAs solicitor told C thered been a recent case which meant their chances 
of recovering the excess were low. C complained about the lack of progress between 2015 
and 2017. C felt the delay  on AXAs part had made  it less likely it would be able to recover 
the excess. It said because of that AXA should  refund  the £1,000.
AXA said its solicitors didnt think C would  have had a good case  against the neighbour 
regardless of the change in case law.
AXA agreed that its service could  have been better. But it didnt agree to refund the excess.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say that a specific excess listed in the policy  schedule,  in this case £1,000, 
is payable in the event of a subsidence  claim.  Im satisfied  that AXA has acted  fairly,  and in 
line with the terms  of the policy, by applying the excess to Cs claim for subsidence.
Theres no contractual requirement  for AXA to seek to recover  the excess from the 
neighbour. Nevertheless, insurers  will often try to recover their policyholders excess  
alongside their own losses. 
In order to bring a successful claim against  the neighbour, AXAs solicitor advised that it 
would have to show that the third partys trees were  the cause of the damage, that the 
damage was foreseeable and that it could have been prevented. It doesnt seem to be 
disputed that the neighbours trees were linked  to the damage. I agree with Mr M that 
the original report  from the tree specialist is quite  clear  about this.
But AXAs solicitors said there was a problem in proving that the neighbour should have 
foreseen that their trees could cause damage to Cs property. They said it would be 
easier to prove this if anyone else had contacted the neighbour about  similar  damage  
being caused to their property but there was no evidence that this was the case. They  
thought legal action would  have  a low chance of success and said AXA would have to 
Ref: DRN30776282incur further  costs in obtaining various  expert reports  if it wanted to proceed with the 
claim.
So regardless of the fact that the third partys  trees caused the damage to Cs property, 
there were other hurdles  that AXA would have to overcome in order  to recover costs 
from the neighbour. I can understand why AXA chose not to proceed when it wasnt 
likely it would succeed and it might have incurred substantial additional costs for 
nothing. So I dont think it treated C unfairly  in deciding  to not pursue  the matter.
I appreciate Mr M feels that if AXA had proceeded more quickly at the outset, this might 
not have been an issue. I dont think thats the case.  Ive seen that from the outset 
AXAs solicitors were  clear about the need to show that the neighbour should have 
foreseen the damage being  caused by their trees. So Im not persuaded the delay has 
made a material adverse  difference to the chance  of success.
Ive looked at how AXA, its loss adjuster and solicitors handled the claim. I can see that 
they regularly  chased the neighbour  and there were long periods  when  the neighbour 
appeared to be just stalling. But there  were  also delays on AXAs  part and times when it 
should have kept C better  informed about  progress. It also failed to provide information  
to C on request. Taking into account  the inconvenience caused  to C I think  
compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to pay C compensation of 
£200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3077628