K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  actions when settling 
a claim on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Mr Rs car was damaged  while parked and unattended. Advantage said his car was a total 
loss and settled  his claim for what it said was the cars pre-accident market  value. Mr R later 
found out that someone else had bought the car and put it back  on the road. He complained 
that Advantage didn't  offer to let him keep the car or to sell it back to him. He brought  his 
complaint to us. He also said that he thought Advantages settlement figure, of £2,612, was 
too low.
I issued a provisional decision on 17 June 2020.  For ease Ive copied my provisional findings  
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
Im aware that initially Advantage thought Mr Rs car might  be repairable  but an engineer  
examined it and said that the cost of repair would be more than the car was worth. So, on 
that basis, Advantage said the car was uneconomical to repair and as such  was a total loss. 
Im aware that Mr R isn't certain whether Advantage had already begun  to repair  the car 
before deeming  it a total loss. But I haven't seen  any evidence  that Advantage had 
authorised repairs.  So I don't  think  any repairs would  have begun on the car without 
Advantages authorisation, as the garage  doing  the repairs wouldn't  be paid for them.  It 
follows that Im satisfied the car remained unrepaired when Advantage deemed it a total 
loss.
After Advantage  had settled Mr Rs claim a man who had recently  bought the car rang Mr R 
to ask him about  its service history. Mr R was surprised to learn that the car had been put 
back on the road and felt that Advantage should  have  given  him the first refusal  to buy it 
back. But I wouldn't have  expected  that to happen. 
It might help if I explain that Mr Rs policy says that once Advantage has settled  a claim for 
the total loss of the car it becomes its property. And I note Mr R didn't ask Advantage about 
the opportunity  of retaining the cars  unrepaired  salvage before it settled the claim. Had he 
done so then we would  have expected  Advantage to tell Mr R how much it could expect to 
receive for the salvage  when it sold it to its salvage agents, and offered to reduce  the total 
loss settlement by that amount if Mr R wanted  to keep the salvage  and repair  the car 
himself. But Mr R didn't raise this with Advantage and it wasn't  under any obligation to offer 
Mr R the salvage.  So I don't  think  it did anything  wrong in not offering  Mr R the opportunity to 
keep it.
Its fairly  standard  practice across  the insurance  industry that once an insurers settled a total 
loss claim it will sell the salvage  to a salvage  company.  The salvage then becomes the 
property of that salvage company. The salvage company will then decide what  to do with it 
depending on its condition. So - where  its allowed to do so  a salvage  company may 
Ref: DRN37645242decide to break the car for parts or sell it at auction. But thats a decision for the salvage 
company to make and Advantage  doesn't have any responsibility for the salvage companys 
decision. So Advantage  isnt responsible  for what happens to the car after the salvage 
company has bought  it from Advantage. 
Turning to the sum that Advantage settled the claim for. Advantage initially offered a lower 
figure but increased the amount after discussion with Mr R, which Mr R accepted at the time. 
But when he brought his complaint to us he told us that he remained unhappy about 
Advantages valuation. Advantage wasn't aware of Mr Rs unhappiness with the settlement 
figure until it received  our investigators assessment. But I don't  think  its reasonable to ask 
Mr R to put that as a separate  complaint to Advantage to address that matter  now.
So I've considered carefully whether Advantage offered a reasonable amount for the pre-
accident value  of Mr Rs car. I've seen that when looking  to value it Advantage considered  
two well-known trade guides used for valuing second hand cars. Because  the guides rarely  
agree on an exact  valuation  we think that a fair way to find a cars market  value is to use an 
average of the various figures  given by the trade  guides. The two guides Advantage used 
gave valuations of £ 2,890  and £2,733.  And an average of those  two figures is £2,812.  But 
Advantages engineer noted that Mr Rs car had some damage unrelated  to the accident, 
most notably to the corners of the front bumper; that the front doors  were  edged,  chipped  
and scratched; and a wheel had kerb damage. Advantages engineer  felt this damage would 
reduce the value of the car by around  £200. So Advantage  reduced  the average  figure  
produce by the trade guides  it considered by that sum and offered Mr R £2,612  for his car  
before deducting  his excess. 
Where a car has damage  beyond the wear  and tear a car of that age can be expected to 
show we think its reasonable for an insurer to adjust its pre-accident value accordingly. 
Advantage has shown us images of the cars pre-existing damage together  with an estimate 
for what it would cost to repair all the damage, which was over £1,000. So I think the £200 
reduction it made from the valuation to allow for the damage was fair.
I've noted  that our investigator said that a third trade guide valued the car at £3,232.  So he 
included that figure  when  arriving  at an average  figure of £2,952. But the third guides 
valuation is around  12% higher than the other  two guides, which are within 2% of each other. 
So it seems  that the third guide is out of step with the other two. And where  that's the case  
wed usually  say its reasonable to disregard the figure that isn't in line with the other guides. 
And I think thats the case here.  So I don't think its fair to use the figure from the third guide 
when arriving at an average valuation. It follows that I think  that the figure Advantage offered 
to settle Mr Rs claim for was reasonable in the circumstances.
Neither Advantage nor Mr R made  any further  comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to change 
my provisional decision. 
As neither Mr R nor Advantage objected to my provisional findings I see no reason to 
change them.
Ref: DRN37645243my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3764524