K821x#15complaint
Mr B says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid,  (QQ), lent to him irresponsibly. 
The complaint has been brought to this service on Mr Bs behalf  by a firm of solicitors.  But 
for ease  I have referred below to all actions being taken by Mr B.
background
QQ agreed 12 short term loans, one top up and four refinance loans for Mr B from May 2015 
until April 2018. Ive set out a summary of the lending below.
Loan 
numberDateLoan amount 
(£)Number of 
instalments 
dueHighest  monthly 
repayment due 
1 5/05/2015 50 1 Around  £61
2 24/06/2015 50 2 Around  £61
3 14/10/2015 100 1 Around £124
4 3/01/2016 200 3 Around £242
4a
(top up) 9/02/2016 502 Around £302
5 27/03/2016 350 2 Around £428
6 7/06/2016 100 1 Around £130
6a 
(refinance) 12/06/2016 752 Around £218
7 30/09/2016 250 2 Around £312
8 12/12/2016 150 2 Around £187
8a
(refinance) 6/02/2017 1003 Around £308
9 24/04/2017 250 2 Around £312
10 5/07/2017 100 1 Around £133
10a
(refinance) 8/08/2017 1252 Around £281
11 10/10/2017 50 1 Around  £64
11a
(refinance) 11/10/2017 502 Around £124
12 10/04/2018 100 2 Around £125
The adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld  in part. He didnt uphold the 
complaint about  Loans 1 to 3 but recommended that the complaint about Loans 4 onwards  
be upheld. 
QQ disagreed. It said, in summary,  that Mr B repaid his loans in full successfully and the 
mere number of loans was insufficient to conclude that the loans were  unsustainable. QQ 
had also said that starting  from 1 March 2015,  it had implemented  an affordability 
assessment that was consistent with the FCA Handbook.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN31869202When QQ lent to Mr B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
With regard to QQs assessments  after 1 March 2015, this service  has addressed this 
specific point by QQ in previous  decisions.  I would remind QQ at this point of the FCA 
guidance on how complaints are to be dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by 
businesses. In particular  DISP 1.3.2A [G] which says that businesses procedures  for 
complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA, other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mr Bs complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QQ needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QQ should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN31869203I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QQ was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because CONC defines  sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and 
in particular the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
QQ did a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It asked him for details  of his income and 
expenditure. Mr Bs declared income  before  Loan 1 was £784 and his expenditure was 
£425. Before Loan 2 his declared disposable income was £1,174 and before Loan 3, it was 
£1,263.50. QQ also checked Mr Bs employment and housing status. From the information 
QQ gathered, Mr B was employed and paid rent. 
QQ also checked Mr Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. QQ hasnt provided us with 
the results of its credit checks  other than the amount of Mr Bs validated  credit  repayments. 
I cant see that we have received a copy of Mr Bs credit report, so I cant  say there were 
entries on the file that shouldve concerned QQ.
The repayments that Mr B needed to make on Loans 1 and 2 were  relatively  modest 
compared to the income that he declared  to QQ. Mr B appears to have faced some relatively 
minor problems repaying his first two loans.  His repayment on Loan 1 was repaid 13 days 
late. Mr Bs repayment of Loan 2 was just less than a month late. At that stage I dont think  
QQ should have  been unduly  worried about  Mr Bs late payments. 
So at the time of the first two loans, taking account of the amount Mr B was borrowing,  what  
was apparent about his circumstances at the time,  and his history with the lender,  I dont  
think it wouldve been proportionate for QQ to ask him for the amount of information  that 
would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable. 
The repayment amount for Loan  3 had more than doubled, but the repayment amount was 
still relatively modest compared  to the disposable  income that Mr B had declared to QQ. And 
although Mr Bs previous  loans had been  repaid  late, I dont  think  that should necessarily 
have given QQ significant concerns about  Mr Bs financial situation.
Again taking account of the amount Mr B was borrowing,  what  was apparent  about his 
circumstances at the time, and his history with the lender, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for QQ to ask him for the amount of information that would  be needed to show 
Loan 3 was unsustainable.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Bs lending  with QQ. Ive looked  to see if there 
was a point at which QQ should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QQ should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further lending. 
Ref: DRN31869204Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 4. I say this because:
By Loan  4 Mr B had been borrowing almost  continuously for almost eight months and 
in relatively quick succession from QQ and he wasnt making  any inroads to the 
amount he owed the lender. By that time Mr B had paid a considerable amount of 
interest to QQ to effectively service  a debt over an extended  period.
Mr B hadnt been able to repay  each  of his first three loans by the due date. He didnt  
repay Loan 3 until more than a month after the due date.  Each of the first three loans  
was being repaid  progressively later.
The amounts  Mr B was borrowing were  mostly  increasing and QQ ought  to have 
realised it was likely his indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Loan 4 was provided less than three weeks after settling Loan 3. So QQ ought  to 
have realised it was more likely than not Mr B was having  to borrow further  to cover 
the hole that repaying  his previous loan had left in his finances. 
I think that Mr B lost out because QQ continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 4 onwards  
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit over an extended  period of time. QQ lent to Mr B without a 
significant break for almost three years.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Bs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint about  Loans  4 onwards because  the overall pattern of 
lending increased  his indebtedness  in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful  
and he lost out as a result. The fact that the loans were repaid does not mean that they were  
repaid sustainably, or without causing Mr B undue difficulty. 
I should add Ive considered the points QQ made  in response to the adjudicator. 
QQ said that Mr B had repaid each loan in full successfully. But I think  QQ will (or ought to) 
know from previous decisions that this service considers there will be times when the pattern 
of lending alone is enough to indicate  that a consumer is likely  to be in financial difficulty   or 
would otherwise be harmed should  relending  continue. So it follows that successful  
repayment of a loan doesnt automatically  mean it was repaid  sustainably  particularly 
where the consumer  borrows again with little break between the loans.
QQ also said that the mere number of loans is an insufficient basis  to conclude that the 
loans were unsustainable. But, QQ will know from previous  decisions that there are cases 
where this service considers the overall lending pattern  and not just the affordability of each 
loan. When a consumer  borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time,  its most likely 
that the loans  arent being used  for their intended  purpose of temporary cash flow problems. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  Loans  4 onwards and QQ should put things right.
Ref: DRN31869205putting things right
I dont think QQ should  have agreed to lend Loans  4 onwards to Mr B. So for each  of those 
loans QQ should:-
Refund any interest and charges applied to the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
The number of loans  taken from Loan 4 onwards  means any information recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  Loans  4 onwards should be removed from Mr Bs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading  as QuickQuid, to:
1.Refund any interest and charges applied to Loans 4 onwards;
2.Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
3.The number of loans  taken from Loan 4 onwards  means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 4 onwards should  be removed 
from Mr Bs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QQ to take off tax from this interest. QQ must give Mr B a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3186920