K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that TSB Bank  plc took too long to process a transaction on his debit card 
and as a result his account became overdrawn.
background
In June 2018 Mr A made a transaction on his debit card but the funds didnt leave his 
account for 14 days. This meant his account became overdrawn and TSB began  adding 
charges. He complained but it didnt  respond to him for a number of months by which time 
itd passed his account to a debt recovery agent.
TSB said Mr A made the transaction on 15 June 2018 but it wasnt debited from his account 
until 29 June 2018. Mr A moved  his account  to another bank but he didnt use the switching 
service. His TSB account remained overdrawn and TSB passed it to its Collections 
department. 
The adjudicator explained the process  used by banks  with a debut  card transaction  and said 
he didnt think the delay was caused by TSB. He was satisfied TSB had applied  the 
subsequent unauthorised overdraft fees in line with its terms and conditions. And he could 
see that from August  2018 Mr As account  was consistently overdrawn.  So he didnt think the 
bank had done anything wrong.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this. He said its very difficult to keep track of transactions  which are 
debited two weeks after the transaction is made. He said he wouldve paid the overdrawn 
balance off sooner  if TSB had responded to his complaint. He phoned it at the time and it 
said it would  get back to him. He didnt think it was right that a bank should keep applying 
charges while  he was waiting for a response. And hed had a previous bad experience with 
TSB which influenced his decision not to pay the fees until hed had a reply from the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr A will be unhappy  with my decision but I dont think  TSB has done  anything 
wrong.
I appreciate Mr As frustration in finding it difficult to keep track of all transactions  on his debit 
card. But he still has a responsibility to keep his account in credit in line with TSBs terms 
and conditions. And, for the same  reasons  given  by the adjudicator, I cant  find the delay in 
this particular transaction is the fault of TSB. As the adjudicator explained, it doesnt have 
any control over when the merchants bank asks TSB for the funds. 
There were sufficient funds in Mr As account until 19 June to cover  this transaction.  His 
account then went into an unauthorised  overdraft  and there  were  a number of returned direct  
debits. TSB applied charges for these and for the unauthorised overdraft.  On 4 December 
2018 it passed his account to Recoveries and stopped applying any charges.
Mr A says if TSB had responded to him much earlier he wouldve paid the balance off 
sooner. I can see how strongly  he feels about  this. But I cant  tell TSB how it should deal 
with and handle  complaints. Its complaint  handling  is not, under our rules, what  is called a 
Ref: DRN36306502regulated activity. If Mr A wants  to take his concerns  about TSBs complaint handling 
procedures further  he will need  to refer his concerns to the Financial Conduct Authority.
But I can look at whether TSB has treated  Mr A fairly during this time and if not what  impact 
this has had on him. And in doing that Ive come  to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator 
for very similar reasons.  Mr A doesnt  dispute  this transaction  and he doesnt dispute the 
returned direct debits. As Ive already said, he had a responsibility  to keep enough funds in 
his account to cover transactions hes made and any charges applied  in line with its terms 
and conditions. Mr A didnt keep sufficient funds  in his account  to pay those  charges. In 
those circumstances  I cant  see TSB has acted unfairly. And, for the same reasons, I dont 
think Mr A was entitled to delay paying  off the debt while he was waiting for a response.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630650