K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold an interest  only mortgage 
to them.  Theyd like advice about how to move  forward.  They  also asked Nationwide to 
agree a settlement amount for the outstanding debt.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out an interest only mortgage  with Nationwide in 2007. The mortgage 
was recommended by a broker independent from Nationwide. Mr and Mrs C say the broker  
submitted false information to obtain  the mortgage,  including about their incomes and 
employment and the source  of their deposit.  They say Nationwide was negligent in not 
checking the information. Mr and Mrs C say the mortgage was mis-sold. They were young at 
the time,  had only just started working and their income was low. 
The value of Mr and Mrs Cs property fell. Nationwide consented  to the sale of the property 
at a loss in 2013. Mr and Mrs C have a shortfall debt to pay. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Nationwide  
was entitled to rely on the information  provided to it by the broker, which  included  employers 
references. Mr and Mrs C confirmed the information  in the application was correct. It was 
likely Nationwide  did a credit search  as this was its usual  process:  the unsecured loan Mr 
and Mrs C say they took out to fund the deposit  might not have been  visible  when it did the 
search. Our adjudicator said Nationwide didnt know the information in Mr and Mrs Cs 
application wasnt correct.  It didnt do anything wrong. The adjudicator  said Mr and Mrs C 
had time to reflect after receiving the mortgage  offer, to decide  whether to proceed.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree. They say Nationwide should have asked for bank statements and 
payslips in addition  to employer references. They  said its not enough to say that Nationwide  
likely did a credit  check without evidence  that it did. Mr and Mrs C say fraudulent information 
was added to their application  after theyd  signed it. They say they werent  told they could  
take time to reflect on the mortgage  offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage in 2007  over 11 years ago. Nationwide doesnt have 
copies of all of the documents and information it relied on when making its lending decision.  
It cant provide evidence it did a credit  search or what  the search revealed. Given  the time 
that has passed, I dont think thats  surprising and I dont make  any adverse inferences. 
The mortgage was recommended to Mr and Mrs C by a broker. The broker  was responsible 
for recommending a mortgage suitable  for their needs, including  checking that they could 
afford it. Mr and Mrs C took out the mortgage  in 2007. Regulations have since changed. But 
Nationwide had to make its lending decision taking account of the relevant rules and 
regulations in place at the time. At that time, it was the responsibility  of the person giving the 
advice (in this case the broker) to check Mr and Mrs C could afford the mortgage.
Ref: DRN39417322Nationwide provided  a number of documents  from 2007. This includes the mortgage 
application form completed by the broker. This set out Mr and Mrs Cs details, including their 
employment, income, financial commitments  and source of their deposit. Mr and Mrs C 
signed a declaration confirming all details  in the application were accurate.  Mr and Mrs C 
say the mortgage documents were  altered after theyd signed. But theres nothing  to suggest 
Nationwide should  have known this.
The broker  provided  references from Mr and Mrs Cs employers. These  were  consistent with 
the information in the mortgage  application. I dont think Nationwide had any reason to think 
these werent genuine.  A property valuation was carried  out. 
Mr and Mrs C say they took out an unsecured  loan to fund the deposit. I dont think  
Nationwide should  have known this. The mortgage  application form says Mr and Mrs C 
would use savings for their deposit. The loan isnt included in their application as a credit 
commitment. Nationwide says a credit search is part of its usual process.  I think  its likely it 
did a credit search. But if Mr and Mrs C took the secured loan out at about the same time as 
the mortgage, its very possible it wasnt yet recorded on their credit  files and visible  when 
Nationwide did its credit search.
Im sorry  for the circumstances  Mr and Mrs C are in. The value of their property  fell and after 
selling the property they were left with a significant debt. But, based  on the information it 
had, I dont think I can reasonably find that Nationwide was wrong to offer the mortgage.
The mortgage offer sets out the terms of the mortgage, including  the monthly  payments. It 
says the offer is valid for six months, which is why the adjudicator  said Mr and Mrs C had 
time to reflect before  deciding whether to proceed. There may have been other factors  that 
meant Mr and Mrs C felt they had to proceed  quickly  such  as the risk their purchase would 
fall through. But I dont  think its reasonable to say Nationwide was responsible for this. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3941732