K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that George Banco.com  Limited  (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2021.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold part of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mrs B has said that 
she agrees with my provisional findings.  GBL hasnt  provided anything further.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision, I dont think  the checks GBL did before 
agreeing any of the loans were proportionate.  But based on the evidence I have seen, 
I cannot conclude  that better checks would have led to the first two loan applications being 
declined. I dont however think the final loan should  have been agreed, and so GBL needs to 
pay Mrs B some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think GBL should have agreed  to lend to Mrs B in February 2018 (loan 3). So for that 
loan GBL should;
refund all the interest and charges Mrs B paid on the loan
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Bs credit  file in relation  to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires GBL to take off tax from this interest.  GBL must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that 
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct George Banco.com Limited to put things right as 
detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2021.
Ref: DRN33018702Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33018703EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs B complains that George Banco.com Limited  (GBL) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mrs B was given three  loans by GBL between March  2016  and February  2018. The last two loans 
were used to refinance Mrs Bs previous borrowing as well as providing her with some additional  
capital. All of Mrs Bs loans have now been  fully repaid, and a summary  of her borrowing from GBL is 
as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing  Date Repayment DateLoan 
Amount  
1 04/03/2016 Refinanced £ 3,000
2 10/11/2016 Refinanced £ 6,000
3 19/02/2018 22/11/2018 £ 9,000
Mrs Bs complaint  has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought  that a medical  
condition Mrs B had disclosed to GBL,  and which affected her ability  to manage money, should have  
led to the loan applications being declined. So she didnt think GBL should have lent to Mrs B and 
asked the lender to pay Mrs B some compensation.
GBL didnt accept that assessment. So, as the complaint  hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mrs Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time GBL gave these loans  to Mrs B required it to carry  out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  she could  afford  to repay  what she owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so GBL had to think about whether repaying  the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs B. In practice this meant that 
GBL had to ensure that making  the repayments wouldnt  cause  Mrs B undue difficulty  or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for GBL to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mrs B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Ref: DRN33018704In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any repayments 
to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  higher 
repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the total cost 
of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required  to make repayments for an 
extended period). 
There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether GBL did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend to Mrs B.
GBL gathered some  information from Mrs B before it agreed the loans. It asked her for details of her 
income, and her normal expenditure. GBL also had a phone conversation with Mrs B before the loans  
were approved, although it hasnt been able to provide  us with a recording of the call at the time of the 
first loan due to a system  error.
Mrs B suffers from a serious mental health condition. She says that this condition leaves her, at times,  
with difficulties  managing her money. She says that she made GBL aware  of her health condition on 
the phone call before  the loan was agreed.
Without a recording of the phone call I cannot be sure what  was discussed. I have no reason to doubt  
that Mrs B told GBL about her health condition. But, since she was asking GBL to approve her 
application for a loan,  I think  it unlikely that she would  have said the condition led to her facing 
difficulties managing  her money. I think it more likely  that she would have said,  as her doctor did in a 
letter issued in 2019, that her condition  was well managed by medication. So I dont  think  the health  
condition would be a reason in itself for the loan application to be declined. But I do think it might have 
put GBL on notice that additional checks would be appropriate.
When Mrs B asked for the first loan she was entering into a significant commitment with GBL. So, 
given what I have said above  about  Mrs Bs health condition,  I would expect that GBL would want to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Bs financial  circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to her. I dont think that the checks I have described earlier  were enough. 
I think  it would have been proportionate  for GBL to independently check  the true state of Mrs Bs 
finances before agreeing  the first loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks GBL did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in itself 
doesnt mean  that Mrs Bs complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  GBL that Mrs B couldnt sustainably  afford 
the repayments. We asked Mrs B for copies of her bank statements, so I could see what better 
checks would have shown  GBL.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that GBL should 
have carried out. I do think GBL needed evidence to corroborate what  Mrs B said was happening  with 
her finances.  And looking at her bank statements  is one way of achieving that although  there are of 
course many other ways  that level of detail  could be established. But I think  that by looking at Mrs Bs 
bank statements I could get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mrs B hasnt responded to our request for copies of her bank statements from around the time of the 
first loan. So Im not able to conclude that better checks should have led to her application  being 
declined. If, in response to this provisional  decision, Mrs B is able to provide those  bank statements 
Ref: DRN33018705I will of course reconsider my decision. But based on the evidence I have seen to date I cannot 
conclude that this loan shouldnt have  been  agreed.
And I think the same applies at the time of the second  loan. Here, the amount that Mrs B asked to 
borrow had doubled   although some of the principal  was used to repay the first loan. So in the space 
of around eight months Mrs Bs indebtedness had significantly increased. I again  think  further checks 
were required,  but without  copies  of Mrs Bs bank statements I cannot conclude  that they should  have 
led to this loan application  being declined  either. So also I dont currently think it reasonable to uphold 
Mrs Bs complaint  about the second loan GBL gave to her.
Around 15 months later,  Mrs B asked to refinance her loan again, and take some additional  
borrowing. With this loan Mrs Bs indebtedness was now three times as great as it was two years  
earlier when she asked for the first loan. So as before I think GBL should have done better checks.
Mrs B has referred other complaints to this Service about loans from other lenders. And from those  
complaints, I have been able to find copies  of her bank statements from around the time of the third 
loan. Those  statements clearly show the problems that Mrs B was facing with managing her money at 
the time she asked for loan 3. Her bank statements show that she had at least seven other short term 
loans active at that time, two of which had been opened in the fortnight before  her application to GBL. 
I think  that, as a responsible  lender, if GBL had seen the information that I think proportionate checks  
would have revealed, it would  have  concluded  it unlikely  that Mrs B could repay this final loan in a 
sustainable manner.
So, in summary I dont  think the checks GBL did before agreeing any of the loans were proportionate. 
But based on the evidence I have seen, I cannot currently conclude that better checks  would  have led 
to the first two loan applications being declined.  I dont however currently think  the final loan should  
have been agreed, and so GBL needs to pay Mrs B some compensation.
Ref: DRN3301870