K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco  Bank will not return 
money that was deposited into a junior ISA. 
background
Mr D says he paid child benefit payments  into a junior ISA but then received a request that 
he repay the child benefit as he wasnt entitled  to it. He says he asked Tesco  to withdraw the 
money but was told he could not until his child reached 18. Mr D says the terms and 
conditions on this are not clear and he didnt receive  details of them from Tesco.  He also 
says he opened  a junior ISA in 2016 for one of his children but didnt open two more 
accounts in 2018 and thought he was joining those  children to the existing ISA that was 
opened in 2016. Mr D also disputes making  the payments  into the ISAs opened in 2018 and 
questions if a mistake was made.
Tesco doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says the account terms and conditions  of all 
three ISA accounts make  clear that money  cant be withdrawn until the child reaches 18. It 
says Mr D opened the accounts and agreed to those terms and conditions and so cant help 
Mr D. Tesco  says the first ISA was opened  in 2016 and the other two in November 2018 and 
welcome packs were sent out which included a further copy of the account rules and terms 
and conditions. It says its fraud team investigated  Mr Ds claim of possible fraud  and didnt 
have any security concerns and says this type of ISA cant have other children added to it. 
Tesco also says Mr D told it that he needed  the money back for a property purchase.
Mr D brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought Mr D had agreed  to the account  terms and conditions when each of the accounts 
were opened  and those terms and conditions  made  clear that money couldnt be withdrawn 
until the child reached 18. So he concluded  Tesco hadnt made a mistake  or acted unfairly. 
The investigator also thought the welcome  pack contained similar  information  and that Mr D 
could have spoken to Tesco if any of the accounts had been opened in error.
Mr D doesnt accept  that view and says he didnt receive the welcome  packs and so wouldnt 
have been aware  of his cancellation  rights. He says he didnt intend to make all the 
payments into the accounts but accepts  there  was human  error.  Mr D would like Tesco to 
change its mind on withdrawing the money due to that human error.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
Im satisfied that Mr D opened the three  accounts  and in doing so agreed  to those account 
terms and conditions. I find those  terms and conditions make clear  that withdrawals from the 
account cant be made until the child reaches 18 and that the money  belongs  to that child. 
So I dont  think Tesco made a mistake or acted unfairly by refusing Mr Ds request to take 
money out of the accounts.
I appreciate that Mr D says he didnt  receive  any of the welcome packs that Tesco sent him 
which repeated  the information about  withdrawals. But I have looked at Tescos  records  and 
Im satisfied those packs were sent to Mr D and that Tesco  doesnt  have  a record  of those 
packs being sent back to it which I would have  expected if they were not able to be 
Ref: DRN38386022delivered. In any event I cant fairly hold Tesco responsible for that as it doesnt deliver the 
mail. And for the reasons I have explained  I think the terms and conditions that Mr D would 
have seen and agreed to are clear on the issue of withdrawals.
I can see that Mr D has suggested there  may have been a fraud and that he thought he was 
opening a different type of account.  I have not seen any evidence of a fraud  or could see 
any reason why a fraud could take place when money was paid into his childrens accounts. 
I also cant fairly hold Tesco responsible  for the type of accounts  Mr D opened.
Overall Im satisfied Tesco hasnt made a mistake or acted unfairly and so I cant  order  it to 
allow Mr D to withdraw money from any of the accounts. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3838602