K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Shawbrook Bank  Limited refused to reject their claim under 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of a misrepresented  trial membership of a 
holiday club.
Background
In April 2017 Mr and Mrs H attended  a presentation run by a holiday club company I will call 
C. They purchased  a trial membership package for £3,995. This provided the opportunity for 
several weeks holiday at Cs holiday properties over a period of three years.  It also offered 
the option of trading it in for full membership.
After the sales presentation they signed  up with a representative of C. The purchase was 
funded by a point of sale loan provided  by Shawbrook. Mr and Mrs H say they were  
persuaded to take up the trial by the promise of 5* accommodation.  They  also would have  
preferred to take out finance via their own bank. They say that they were told that to activate  
the trial they had to book  a holiday in one of two resorts.  
They wanted  to travel in a certain period and this limited their options. They discovered the 
accommodation had received poor reviews and had only a 3* rating. However,  Cs 
representative explained that its resorts  didnt have ratings as they were  apartments.
Mr and Mrs H says that the resort was of poor quality and they set out a number of issues  
they encountered. They  spoke with Cs sale representative and had hoped he would address 
their problems. But he sought to sell them full membership. From this meeting they gleaned 
that had they been able to travel  on other  dates they may have been able to book better  
accommodation. They say they were also told that not all the resorts  were 5*.
Their complaint to C was rejected and they took the matter to Shawbrook.  It contacted C 
which said that the multi-media presentation was factual and illustrated a mixture of 
accommodation at various resorts.  It said that the compliance officer had read through  all the 
contractual documentation prior to signing and they had 14-day withdrawal period. C said it 
had invited Mr and Mrs H to take another holiday better suited to their needs.
Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She said she had to consider what  
promises were  made before the sale and if these  amounted to misrepresentation. Having  
reviewed what Mr and Mrs H said along  with Cs response and its sales and training aids 
she concluded there was insufficient  evidence to say they had been  misled. 
She also considered  if there had been  unfair  relationship as covered by section 140A 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  She concluded there  wasnt.  While  presentation  may have been 
overly weighted towards the aspirational  lifestyle that could be achieved  with C, the gap in 
knowledge between  what Mr and Mrs H thought they were  getting and what  they got wasnt 
so significant as to suggest it could give rise to an unfair relationship.  She explained that our 
role is to consider  how the lender had responded to the complaint and if it had reached a fair 
outcome.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree. They said that we hadnt  investigated C and their complaint was 
with it rather than Shawbrook. They say they were  very disappointed  with their holiday which 
was mandatory  as part of the package undermined their confidence in Cs ability to provide 
Ref: DRN39609062the level of accommodation they were seeking. They  say that when they asked to cancel the 
loan should also have been cancelled. They didnt  want a refund and only sought to cancel 
the payments  they were making  as they didnt use the club.
They referred to Cs response to their complaint in which it had said:  Whether or not your 
Sales Representatives descriptions were misinterpreted or a little overzealous, we do 
apologise for the misunderstanding and sincerely  we can restore your faith in [C}. They  said 
this was an admission  of mis-selling.
They said C knew their expectations  and should have sent them to a better  resort.  They  felt 
the use of 5* as a term was being  abused  by C and they had been lied to about the quality of 
accommodation which was on offer.  They  said they should have been offered the 
opportunity to resile  from the agreement after they had visited the resort. Later they said that 
C had gone into liquidation and was unable to deliver its promised to provide  
accommodation. They also provided an advert  from C which referred to luxury 
accommodation.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part. For section  75 to 
apply, the law effectively  says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is no suggestion that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken and so I have to 
consider if there has been either  misrepresentation  or a breach of contract. Before doing so I 
should explain that my powers only cover regulated financial services and do not extend to 
complaints against  the timeshare company.  
None of the material I have seen which was presented to Mr and Mrs H leads me to 
conclude there was either misrepresentation or a breach of contract. It seems that their 
complaint lies around what was said at the presentation by Cs representative(s).
It is normal for any business to present a positive  gloss  on their product and often the words 
they use are chosen  with some care.  For example, the word luxury  is subjective and what  
one person regards  as being luxurious is not to another. It is clear that Mr and Mrs H have 
certain standards and these were not met in the trip they took. That said,  I have seen no 
evidence of the standard of the resort they did visit. They have simply stated that there  were  
a number of issues  that failed  to meet what they regarded as acceptable and so they have 
deemed it to be unsuitable.
I gather  this trip was a taster holiday and was provided in addition to the trial holidays which  
Mr and Mrs H paid for. Even though they were  disappointed with the taster trip I note that C 
Ref: DRN39609063responded to their concerns and offered to ensure any future  holidays met their needs. Mr 
and Mrs H chose not to accept that offer. I believe that was unfortunate.
If I had found that there had been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation, I would have 
suggested that C ensure they were  provided with accommodation which met the promises 
made at the sale pitch, so C has already offered the redress I would have suggested had I 
been minded to uphold  this complaint.
However, as I have stated  I cannot say that I have seen sufficient evidence that would allow  
me to uphold their complaint. It is not enough that they are dissatisfied with the resorts, they 
have to establish that there has been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation. The 
documentation does  not support their claim. 
Misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which caused a person to enter into a 
transaction.  So, if the representative had said C had resorts in 20 countries and this was not 
correct that would be a false statement of fact. However, that on its own would not be 
enough, the consumer would have  had to have entered into the transaction  as a result  of the 
false statement. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H came  away with a certain view of what  they had 
acquired, but I cannot say what was said. As such I cannot say a false  statement of fact was 
made. 
I should also point  out that the loan agreement  is separate  from the holiday club agreement. 
It was open to Mr and Mrs H to walk away from the loan agreement within 14 days, but that 
would mean  they would have had to find alternative finance for their purchase.  As they didnt 
the loan remains  payable. 
They have advised us that C has recently gone  into administration, but I dont consider this 
has any impact  on their claim. They entered into an agreement in May 2017  that provided  for 
five weeks holiday to be taken within the following 36 months.  That period elapsed in May 
2020. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 30 May 2021.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3960906