K820x#14complaint
Mr P says he no longer  owes a credit card debt which originated with Santander and which  
Hoist Finance UK Limited  says is now owed to Hoist. 
background
Hoists representative Robinson Way Limited has written to Mr P pursuing the debt. Mr P 
says hes already repaid the debt via a debt management plan with Kensington Financial 
Management (KFM). 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He concluded it was unlikely  Mr P had repaid 
the debt via KFM, as Mr P said hed made the last payment via KFM  in 2013 but the debt 
had apparently been transferred to Hoist in 2014.
Mr P didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions. He said that regulations put the onus on 
Robinson Way/Hoist to prove he still owed the debt and theyd failed to do so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr P but I dont 
uphold his complaint.
Mr P has pointed  to regulations that require the creditor (Hoist in this case) to prove the debt 
is owed by him. 
The ombudsman service  isnt the regulator,  though  we have to take regulations  into account 
in our decision-making. I dont as ombudsman  have power to make Mr P pay Hoist. What  I 
must decide is whether its fair and reasonable that Robinson Way on behalf  of Hoist is 
pursuing Mr P for the alleged debt.
So I have  to decide, given the available evidence and on the balance of probabilities, 
whether I think Robinson Way has a reasonable basis for its actions.  The balance of 
probabilities is the usual  approach the ombudsman service takes towards fact-finding.  In 
other words, I have to decide if something is more likely than not to be the case.  
Its unfortunate that Mr P says hes retained  no paperwork regarding  KFM  and the debt 
repayment plan.  This would have been  the most  straightforward way for Mr P to prove his 
point. I note KFM is no longer trading. 
On balance, I think the debt hasnt been repaid, and so Robinson  Way has a reasonable 
basis for its actions. Mr P thinks the debt was repaid in 2013.  But theres a notice of 
assignment addressed  to Mr P from Santander dated November 2014 saying the debt 
amounting to more  than £3,000 has been  transferred from Santander  to Hoist. And Mr P 
hasnt demonstrated  hes repaid that debt to Hoist. 
Ive therefore  come  to the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Ref: DRN33226432my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Roger Yeomans
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3322643