K820x#14Complaint
Ms W complained that Scottish Amicable unsuitably advised her to start a Free Standing  
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) with themselves in 1994.  Responsibility  for this 
now lies with the Prudential Assurance Company  Limited.
Background
Ms W joined the NHS pension scheme  in August 1989. On 1 August 1992 Ms W started  an 
FSAVC with another provider (not Scottish  Amicable  or Prudential).  At the time she was a 
Doctor working for the NHS. She said she wanted to retire  at 50; albeit the NHS scheme was 
set up to enable  her to take benefits  aged  60. 
In December 1994 Ms W started  an FSAVC with Scottish Amicable  (now  Prudential). It was 
around this time she submitted a complaint  to the provider with whom  shed  started the first 
FSAVC.
More recently, Ms W with the assistance of a representative, complained about both plans. 
These complaints  have  been considered separately. But I consider some of the historic 
information in relation  to the other FSAVC is of some  relevance to this complaint.
The application documents in respect of the Scottish  Amicable FSAVC started in 1994 
recorded the following:
Ms W worked  as a Doctor for the NHS  and was paying into the in-house pension  
scheme.
The NHS scheme administrators  details  including their contact information were 
provided on the application  form.
Ms W had previously  met the adviser and had then asked about  starting  an FSAVC.
She wanted to retire  at age 55.
She was engaged to be married.
The plan was started with monthly  contributions of £100 to increase at 10% a year.
 No FSAVC transfer was taking  place when this plan was started.
6% of earnings were  being paid into the NHS  scheme as a personal  contribution.
Discussions regarding  overfunding took place and were used to inform  the level of 
contribution selected.
No death benefits/ spousal benefits  were required.
Her monthly expenditure set out her mortgage  and life assurance payments and that 
she was making no pension contributions.
On Scottish Amicables fact find document from the time, under the section on 
pension arrangements, her membership  of the NHS  final salary scheme was 
recorded; but no other pension arrangements/ assets were recorded.
She confirmed she was contracted out.
It was indicated that no existing contract  would be surrendered or made paid up.
In the section where details (providers,  contributions etc.) of surrendered or paid up 
contracts, arrangements or pensions are requested- N/A has been recorded.
She accepted this recommendation  and the plan started on 26 December 1994 with gross  
monthly contributions  of £100 invested in the with-profits fund. The retirement date was set 
to age 55.
Ref: DRN34738902In 1995 Ms W expressed dis-satisfaction with the advice  and product provided  in relation to 
FSAVC she had started in 1992. In a complaint document completed  by Ms W in December 
1995 she indicated  the following:
She was a member  of her company (NHS) scheme at the time of starting  her 1992 
FSAVC.
At the time of starting the 1992 FSAVC she didnt have any previous or existing  
FSAVC.
She hadnt known  there was an in-house  AVC (additional voluntary contribution) 
option when she started  her 1992 FSAVC.
At the time of starting the 1992 FSAVC she intended to retire  at the age of 50.
She had ceased  making contributions to the 1992 FSAVC as she was unhappy with 
the product/  advice;  specifically, she said the contributions were too high in 
proportion to her income and she was unhappy  with service provided. She added 
that she had since  joined another  scheme.
She also thought  the providers of the 1992 FSAVC had given her the wrong 
information.
. 
In February 1996  the providers of the FSAVC started in 1992  wrote to Ms W. Their letter 
concludes that based on her occupation and the scheme to which  she already belonged it 
may have  been  more  appropriate for her to have joined  her in-house (NHS) AVC scheme. 
They suggested she might want to review her pension arrangements  and also suggested 
she contact the NHS scheme administrators for advice.
They offered  to refund contributions plus interest, to be paid into her in-house  scheme.  Ms W 
replied that on the advice of her financial  adviser she would like a copy of her paid up 
schedule for the FSAVC  and that she no longer intended to make contributions  to the plan;  
but she said that on advice she intended to leave the plan where it was.
Ms Ws representative has told us that Ms W contributed  to her Scottish Amicable FSAVC 
from 1994 until 2006. It appears monthly contributions had reached  £194.86  by 2006.
In Ms Ws recent complaint about the plan she started with Scottish Amicable it has been 
said:
Ms W was not given sufficient information  about her in-house AVC scheme  
alternative that would  have  enabled  an informed comparison.
In her complaint she said the adviser  didn't refer to her in-house  scheme,  which 
would allow additional contributions to be made;  nor that this was likely to be better 
value for money.
It was said the adviser didn't set out the difference in charges between  an FSAVC 
and in-house scheme; nor the difference on investment options or buying  previous 
years of service. It was also said the added-years option wasn't referred to and that 
this would have  been a much  better  option for her. As she was risk averse,  this and 
Ref: DRN34738903other benefits to the added-years/ in-house option  would have suited her attitude  to 
risk better.
It was also said the adviser failed  to conduct  analysis of the in-house  scheme  or refer 
Ms W to the in-house scheme administrators for more information.
Prudential didnt agree.  Prudential say the product information, illustration and plan 
documents provided at the time gave sufficient  information; including on charges. In addition  
the fact find notes record that relevant  conversations took place at the time the plan was 
started. And the investment fund selected  was based on her cautious attitude  to risk.
An investigator at this service didnt  uphold the complaint. In her view she set out details of 
the historic framework as well as her reasoning. She referred to the regulatory update 20 
(RU20) issued by the then industry regulator in May 1996, in respect of the sale of AVCs and 
FSAVCs. The update set out that:
A representative should not recommend his own company's FSAVC  until he has:
drawn the client's attention to the in-scheme alternative;
discussed the differences between the two routes in generic term; and
directed the client to his employer or to the scheme trustees, for more information  on 
the in-scheme  option.
Before this, financial businesses should have followed the relevant rules of the previous 
regulator. The investigator set out that the following rules applied from 29 April 1988. A 
business should:
Have regard to the consumers financial position  generally and to any rights they may 
have under an occupational pension scheme; and
Give the consumer all information relevant to their dealings  with the representative in 
question.
So representatives when  advising, such as the one seen by Ms W, should have:
pointed out that AVCs  were available
explained that AVCs were  likely  to provide better value  for money;  and
recommended considering the AVC.
Having considered the available  evidence, the investigator agreed with Prudential that their 
advisor did these things at the time and met the regulator's  requirements.
Ms W said the adviser did not discuss the differences  between  FSAVCs and AVCs and in 
particular the difference  in charges. She also said the advisor didn't mention the NHS 
scheme allowed  additional contributions and did not tell her this would likely be better value 
for money.
Ref: DRN34738904The investigator thought the fact find document from the time demonstrated that the 
representative provided general  information  about AVCs, and discussed the generic 
differences between  FSAVCs and AVCs. And if Ms W had been  unclear on the relative 
merits and differences  of AVCs and FSAVCs, the investigator thought it was reasonable to 
have expected her to question this further  at the time. 
The investigator thought the evidence demonstrated  the adviser talked through  the AVC 
option in some detail.  She thought the adviser  had discussed the management  charges and 
told Ms W that the charges on an AVC would no doubt be lower than the FSAVC option.
And the investigator  accepted Ms W had felt the flexibility and better potential investment 
growth were  also of value  and believed an FSAVC could offer these benefits.  So that, 
although the FSAVC plan was more expensive than an AVC,  it didn't necessarily mean  the 
plan was unsuitable for her.
The investigator noted that in the recent complaint letter Ms Ws representative  believed  that 
at the time of sale an adviser had a duty to analyse the in-house AVC and provide 
illustrations comparing the FSAVC and in-house AVC. But she set out that Prudential's 
adviser, being a tied representative was not required to carry out a detailed,  personalised, 
comparison between the FSAVC and AVC. Only Ms Ws employer, not Prudential,  could 
provide information  about the in-house  options available.
So the investigator was satisfied Prudential  fulfilled the obligations when advising Ms W to 
take out the FSAVC.
She went on to conclude the investment  had reflected Ms Ws attitude to risk; so she was 
satisfied the plan met her needs  and objectives  at the time of the sale.
Ms Ws representative  didnt agree with the view and replied with the following main  points. 
It had been  inaccurate  and untruthful for Ms W to have been told the FSAVC had 
"potentially  better  growth" and "more flexibility" than the in-house option.
Its not understood how this could be possible as its suggested it was the same  basic  
product as the in-house option  but with lower  charges and thus the potential for 
better growth.
At the time of sale, the FSAVC had no greater flexibility than the in-house  option 
(other than potentially  being more easily ported if Ms W changed employer. But as an 
NHS doctor, this was most  unlikely).
At the time of sale, Ms W would not have been able to access her FSAVC  benefits 
without leaving service  first. The FSAVC would not have been sufficient on its own to 
support her if she had done that.
The investigator considered these points  but was not persuaded to change  her opinion  and 
replied in summary:
Even if Prudential were an administrator of the NHS AVC scheme,  it would have 
been different  areas; and the tied representative only had a duty to point out that 
AVCs were available,  explain that they were likely to provide  better  value for money 
and recommend considering the AVC.
Ref: DRN34738905As tied representatives, they could not advise  on the NHS AVC scheme  and were not 
required to go into any further  detail such as discussing  added years.  They could 
only refer the consumer to their employer or pension  scheme  for further  information.
The issue of whether the FSAVC benefits alone would have been enough to support 
Ms W was a wider question than the complaint about the suitability of the FSAVC
The investigator also set out that the view had been that the potential for better growth 
related to the fact that in general FSAVC  schemes have a wider  range of investment choices 
so were had been  believed  to offer a potential for better growth. And the fact find said Ms W 
felt the flexibility  and better potential investment growth were  of greater value.
So she hadnt  changed her thinking  which she thought  was consistent with the requirements 
or a tied adviser  at the time. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator, for broadly  the same reasons.
I appreciate this will disappoint Ms W, but I think Scottish Amicable did what  they were 
required to do at the time. Ive looked with care at everything that has been  provided and all 
that has been said. But having looked at the documents  from the time,  I think  the 
requirements were met by the adviser.  
My thinking  in this is supported also by what Ms W said in her complaint  to the provider of 
the earlier FSAVC  in 1995.  I think  the information Ms W provided in this complaint, as well 
as the response  received at the time, demonstrates  her attention  had been sufficiently drawn 
to there  being an in-house option  and the potential advantages and value in finding out 
more. Indeed the response at the time suggests  that in relation to the other  plan, it was likely 
she would  be better  off as a member of the in-house  scheme. 
I appreciate its said that the Scottish  Amicable  representative advised Ms W on this. But I 
think the words used in the documents from the time are all clear  enough to have sufficiently 
informed and alerted  Ms W; not only to what she was required to be told but also some of 
the other factors that she might want to find out more about. 
I think this complaint is particularly fact sensitive, given the complaint that was being made 
about the earlier FSAVC, around the time this one was being started. It might be said that 
the complaint  made in 1995 was about the same type of plan and was made on the same 
terms that she now complains about. So I think at the time she would have been  particularly 
alive, to the requirements  and to the relevant issues.
I understand whats said about  the difficulty accepting that the FSAVC  had the potential  for 
better growth and more  flexibility. But to an extent thats with the benefit  of hindsight and the 
knowledge of what Ms W might have been  able to achieve in-house. Here  I am looking at 
what was required at the time and the thinking at the time. Its right to say the ability to make 
personal investment  choices, potentially improve growth, and have greater flexibility  were 
considered to be of value;  performance and investment growth hasnt met the levels that 
were considered achievable at the time. 
Ref: DRN34738906Neither Ms W nor Scottish Amicable would have been expected to know the details of the in-
house option at the time; nor would they have  been expected to conduct a comparison. But 
here I accept  that it would have been  in the forefront of her mind that her in-house  option 
may have  valuable benefits and that it may be of value for her to explore and understand 
these further.
Overall I accept the tied adviser did what was required  at the time, and I think  Ms W had her 
attention drawn  to the necessary information. 
Final decision
So for the reasons given I dont uphold  Ms Ws complaint against  
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited. Under  our rules, Im required to ask Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3473890