K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about what happened  when he asked Revolut Ltd to make two overseas 
payments for him. 
background
Mr G told us that hes self-employed, and has an account with Revolut which  offers the 
features of a small business bank account. He pays €6.99 per month  for that. 
Mr G said that he was purchasing machinery from a firm overseas, on behalf of a client. He 
said that the client had paid him, and he asked Revolut to make the transfer to his supplier, 
in Hong Kong. This payment was for $17,000 US dollars (USD), and Mr G said he asked for 
it to be sent on 21 September. 
On 25 September,  he was contacted  by the supplier, to say it hadnt received the payment. 
Mr G asked Revolut, and it said that everything  was fine, there was just a short  delay. But 
Mr G said the money never  arrived. He found  out on 11 October that the intermediary 
Revolut uses to make this transfer returned  the money to Revolut on 4 October. But Revolut 
didnt tell him this until 11 October,  and he didnt get the money  back  into his account until a 
considerable time after that. Mr G said that between  4 and 11 October, Revolut continued to 
insist that the transfer had been  done, and Mr Gs supplier should  be receiving the money.  
Mr G said that this meant that none of the machinery he was trying to buy for his client had 
been shipped.  
He also told us that hed made a second  payment,  on 26 September. That was for $4,886, 
and was being sent to China. As of 11 October, Revolut was still saying that payment was 
fine. But that money hadnt arrived either. So again, this supplier hadnt  shipped the 
machinery that Mr G was trying to order. 
Mr G said that hed now noticed that Revoluts  terms and conditions say it wont support 
transfers to China, although it will support transfers  to Hong Kong. Mr G said that if that was 
the case, he shouldnt have been  able to select China as the destination country, and make 
a payment to that supplier, using Revoluts app. 
Mr G said he wanted €500 per week compensation, and to cancel his contract  with Revolut.
Mr G wrote again  on 16 October, to say he still didnt have any of his money back. His 
customer had eventually  transferred $17,000  to the supplier. Mr G said that he would have 
to reimburse him, and to pay all the fees of the transfer. And Mr G said he wanted Revolut to 
pay him back the euros he paid in each of the two transfers hed attempted.  He didnt want  
to lose anything because  of a less favourable exchange rate from USD to euros.
Mr G said that he was losing sizeable orders because  he had no stock. He then told us hed 
received a response to his complaint from Revolut.
When Revolut wrote to Mr G about his complaint, it said that the first payment had failed, 
and been returned to it. It said that it hadnt been  able to pay this money  back  to him, 
because of bad formatting of the payment return form. It said that its banking  partner, which  
it uses to make international transfers, was responsible for that bad formatting. So it said that 
it couldnt be held liable  for this. It pointed to a part of the terms and conditions of Mr G's 
Ref: DRN32616562account which say that it wont  be liable for delays beyond its reasonable control including 
actions by a third party, and it also said that it wasnt responsible  for any consequential or 
indirect loss incurred by Mr G as a result of it failing to perform a transfer. 
Revolut said that it had refunded Mr G the monthly  account fees hed paid so far, and it was 
going to waive the rest of his fees for the next eight months, so he had a year free of charge.
Mr G has told Revolut he doesnt  want that. He isnt interested in keeping  the service,  even  
for free. 
Revolut sent us Mr Gs statements. It said that the first transfer was returned to it for 
compliance reasons.  It didnt know it had that money until 11 October. Revolut said it then 
had to make  IT changes  to be able to move  the money from its master account to Mr Gs 
account. It hasnt clearly said why the second  amount  was returned. 
Revolut said that Mr G had now got back all of his money. And it has paid Mr G back  all the 
fees hed paid so far for his business account, which was €34.95. And it had credited him 
with €105.91 for the inconvenience.  Revolut still didnt think it should be liable in this 
situation, because  of what its terms and conditions said.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. She said that Revolut should  compensate  Mr G for 
any loss he may have experienced as a result of exchange rate shifts  between USD and 
euros, that may have meant that Mr G got back less in euros  than he transferred out. If he 
did get back less, then Revolut should pay Mr G that difference, plus 8% interest. 
Our adjudicator said that she knew Revolut said that it wasnt liable for delay or failure  to 
perform our obligations under these Terms  (including any delay in payment) by reason of 
any cause beyond our reasonable control including but not limited to any action or inaction 
by you or any third party..  But she thought that what had gone wrong was within Revoluts 
control. She said that Revolut had failed to put things right as a priority.  She thought that 
Revolut should  pay Mr G an extra £350  in compensation to make  up for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
Mr G didnt think that was enough to compensate him for the length of time his money was 
missing, and all the problems hed had with cancelled  orders.  He said hed lost over €5,000  
in direct orders, not to mention loss of reputation. But he said hed accept it, because his 
financial situation at the time meant  that he had no choice.
Revolut didnt agree. It thought what it had offered was fair, and it wanted  an ombudsman  to 
consider this complaint. So the case was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I said Id start by looking at what I thought was most  likely  to have gone wrong in this 
case. 
-Revolut hadnt  told us what went wrong with the transfers. It didnt  seem  to think it had 
to. It just said that it wasnt responsible for the actions of a third party.  
Ref: DRN32616563-When Mr G told Revolut he wanted  to send money to these two companies, Revolut 
didnt take that task on itself. It asked a different bank to do that for it. Revolut  told us that 
it doesnt yet make  its own international transfers. 
-I thought it was fair to say that, once a transfer  like this has gone wrong, its Revolut that 
has all the information about what has happened. So I thought that the onus was on 
Revolut to show that what went wrong wasnt  its fault.  
-And while another bank is acting as Revoluts  agent, and making international transfers  
for Revolut, its my view that Revolut  is responsible for what  this other bank does. I didnt 
think that the terms that Revolut  pointed to, which say its not responsible for the acts of 
third parties, also meant it wouldnt  be responsible  for the acts of its agent.
-Revolut hadnt  shown us that it, and the bank  working for it, did everything possible to 
make sure the transfers were successful. And it hadnt shown that it wasnt  its fault that 
the money wasnt returned to Mr G straight away. 
-On the first issue, of why the transfers  went wrong, I noted that our adjudicator asked for 
the forms that were  used  to send this money overseas, but we hadnt been  sent them. 
So Revolut hadnt shown that the bank making  transfers for it made  two full and accurate 
sets of requests  to transfer the money  to the companies Mr G wanted  to pay. We simply 
didnt know if that bank got that right or not. 
-But we did know that Mr G tried to make two payments. And at least one of these  was 
apparently returned for compliance  reasons. Mr G says that he was later asked which 
other countries  he was trading with. He thinks that this was probably  a compliance 
question that the bank  working  for Revolut asked,  that was never  passed  on to him. He 
says he could have  answered it easily, and there were no other compliance concerns. 
-The questions that Mr G was asked, were questions I would normally expect to be raised 
during a transfer, as part of making sure that its ok to go ahead  with that transfer. But 
Mr G says that he was only asked them later. 
-Id considered the information we did have about the transfers,  and I thought it was more  
likely that those  transfers failed because of poor communication between  Revolut and 
the bank acting on its behalf.  
-Revolut also hadnt shown that it wasnt responsible  for the delay in returning money to 
Mr G, once it had been  paid back to Revolut. I thought it clearly was responsible  for that. 
It said it had no previous experience of a payment being  returned to its master  account, 
and no way of foreseeing that this could  happen.  I simply  didnt agree that this was in no 
way a foreseeable event. And I didnt  think it was reasonable for Revolut to hang  on to 
Mr Gs money,  or indeed not to notice that the money had been returned. Whatever the 
IT problems  were, they didnt  provide  a justification  for not paying  back  Mr Gs money.  
-So I agreed with our adjudicator that Revolut  should pay Mr G some compensation.
-Our adjudicator mentioned two things  she thought Revolut should pay for  to make  up 
for any unfavourable  change in the exchange rate, and to make up for the distress and 
inconvenience that Mr G was caused.  I said Id look at each of those in turn.
Ref: DRN32616564-Revolut has shown  us Mr Gs account  history. That showed each of the two transfers he 
tried to make. I was aware  that Revoluts account type allows  a customer  to hold more 
than one currency at once. But I understood that Mr G had been  paid,  and works, in 
euros. He needed to make his payments to suppliers in USD.
-On 21 September,  Mr G exchanged €17,079 to $20,092.58.  On the same day he 
transferred $17,000 to a company in Hong Kong, leaving some money in USD  in his 
account.
-Mr G then made another  payment of €1,600 into his account on 26 September, and 
exchanged that amount for $1,879.60.  On the same  day, he transferred $4,886 to a 
company in China.
-He received a refund  of the $17,000 transfer  on 25 October.  He exchanged $17,000 to 
€14,949.29 on 26 October. 
-He received a refund  of the $4,886 transfer  on 8 November. He exchanged $ 4,886.01 to 
€4,310.58 on 9 November. 
-So it looks as if Mr G changed a total of €18,679 into $21,972.46.  He then changed back  
a total of $21,886.01 to €19,259.87
-It looked to me as if the exchange  rate did change in the intervening time, but it seemed 
to have changed in Mr Gs favour.  So I didnt think that Revolut needed to compensate 
Mr G for the change in the exchange rate. 
-Mr G told us that he lost a considerable amount of business, and at least €5,000 in direct 
profit, from these failed  transfers. But Revolut says it isnt responsible for that. Its 
pointed to a provision in its terms and conditions which says 
o23.7 We shall not be liable to you for any:
o
oconsequential or indirect loss (such as loss of profits or opportunity) you may 
incur as a result  of us failing to perform  our duties under a Revolut Transaction;
. 
-I didnt think it was unfair for Revolut to restrict what  it will pay if a transfer doesnt go 
through, in this way. So I didnt think I could simply award  Mr G the profit that he told us 
hed lost.
-But equally, I thought that what had gone wrong  in this case, with these two transfers,  
was either clearly Revoluts fault, or more likely  than not to be Revoluts fault. And Mr G 
has described the very significant impact this had on his business,  and on him 
personally. Large sums of money  had been  paid to him as an advance on purchases for 
his business. He didnt have that money, and the supplier didnt either.  Mr G told us that 
this not only meant he struggled to keep his business going, but also struggled  to find 
money to pay his rent and feed himself.  
-I appreciated that the money had now been returned to Mr G, and that, fortuitously, he 
had even benefitted a little from exchange rate changes. But I also noted  that the impact 
that this has had on Mr G, as a result  of the damage to Mr Gs business, was likely to be 
ongoing. I still thought that Revolut should  also pay compensation  in this case. And I 
Ref: DRN32616565didnt think that the amount our adjudicator awarded was quite enough. I thought that 
Revolut should  pay Mr G £500 in compensation.
-Finally, Mr G also said that he wanted  to be released from his contract with Revolut. 
Given the service that hes received, I thought that was a reasonable request. So I 
thought it was fair to say that Revolut shouldnt charge Mr G anything for what  remains  of 
his initial  one year of service. It should allow Mr G to close his account  before this year is 
up, without penalty.
-I said Id like to close by reminding both sides that Revolut hadnt  yet provided detailed  
information on the transfers  it asked its agent  bank  to make for it. My provisional decision 
was based on what I thought was most  likely to have happened,  drawing on the 
evidence I had then.  There  was an opportunity for both sides  to send in further evidence,  
and I said I would  conduct a complete review of the above before I issued a final 
decision.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr G sent us a reply.  Revolut said it had received  the decision, and it would be commenting, 
but it didnt actually do that before the deadline  set out in our letter.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr G told us that it was true that the exchange  rate had moved in his favour when he got the 
refunds, but he said that wed forgotten that he then had to send money  to the supplier  
again, with a less favourable exchange rate that time. He said that he didnt want the money  
back in his account, he wanted  to pay the suppliers. 
Mr G also said that the damage  to him was much  more than the £500 Id suggested as an 
award, but he didnt  want to delay my final decision. 
I appreciate that Mr G would still have  needed  to make sure that the amount in USD  reached 
the companies he was purchasing from, but Mr G hasnt shown us when that money  was 
finally successfully sent, or what exchange  rate was used. I understand that one of the 
payments at least was actually made  by Mr Gs customer, rather than by him. Mr G hasnt 
sent us any evidence of the payments made,  to show what  rate applied. And given Mr Gs 
clearly expressed preference to have  a quick resolution to this case, and the financial 
problems hes told us that he was experiencing, I dont think  I should  delay  this decision to 
ask for that evidence.  
Revolut said it intended to comment,  but it hasnt. Again, given the concerns that Mr G 
expressed about delaying a decision,  and the financial problems hes told us about, I dont 
think I should delay  my decision in this case to ask Revolut to send comments.  
Ill now make  the decision  I initially proposed.
Ref: DRN32616566my final decision
My final decision is Revolut Limited must pay Mr G £500 in compensation. It must waive any 
charges for Mr Gs first year of service,  and allow Mr G to close  his account without penalty 
before that year is up.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261656