K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that when an envelope  she deposited for storage in a Lloyds Bank  PLC 
branch was returned to her, some pieces of jewellery were missing.  Shes  unhappy she 
wasnt told the items were  no longer stored in the branch and with the redress provided.
background
Lloyds said in its final response that the branch had confirmed that the envelope was 
damaged when returned to Mrs K. It asked her to get a valuation for the missing rings  which  
was £1,735. Its agreed to refund this amount to Mrs K, credit  £265 towards the sentimental 
aspect of the loss and pay £250 for the inconvenience and upset this has caused. This 
makes a total payment to her of £2,250.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
So far as the redress is concerned Lloyds has paid the full amount of the estimate  
Mrs K provided for replacing the four rings. Its also paid £515  for the sentimental 
value of the items and the distress  caused  by the error.  
Overall Lloyds has acted reasonably quickly  and fairly. And he doesnt consider it 
needs to do any more.
Lloyds has recently said the items were contained  in an envelope  and they remained held in 
the branch. The envelope  had only been moved  for audit  purposes. But it wouldnt have told 
Mrs K of this. It wouldnt have been  aware  of what was in the envelope or if the contents  
were valuable. 
Mrs K doesnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. She says the items were 
held in an envelope which was placed in a second envelope. Lloyds  never asked about the 
contents. She wasnt advised  to take out a safety  deposit box. The jewellery has either been 
stolen, gone missing or been mislaid. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been some confusion over whether Mrs Ks envelope  was kept in a safety deposit 
box. But Lloyds  has recently confirmed Mrs Ks items were  held in an envelope in a secure 
area of a branch although they mayve been  moved  when it carried out an audit. They  
werent held in a safety deposit  box and thats  why Mrs K wouldnt have received any 
correspondence about the envelope or box being moved out of the branch.
Wherever the envelope was stored, and whatever happened, when the envelope was 
returned to Mrs K it was damaged and she says four rings were missing  from its contents.
Lloyds didnt ask and wouldnt have known what was in the envelope or if its contents were 
valuable. But it has accepted liability for this loss. 
Lloyds has accepted an estimate  Mrs K obtained from a jeweller for the replacement of the 
rings. This was based on information given to the jeweller by Mrs K and was estimated at 
Ref: DRN38046542£1,735. Lloyds has accepted this figure without question. Its also paid her this amount 
relatively quickly. Thats all fair and reasonable.
Mrs K says the rings  had a family history and a sentimental value. I accept that these items 
cannot ever be replaced from a sentimental point of view and their loss is particularly 
upsetting as a result.  But this isnt something  that can be precisely quantified or 
compensated for. Here Lloyds has paid Mrs K an additional £265 to reflect  this plus £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience  shes been caused.  
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think the amounts 
Lloyds has paid Mrs K are fair and reasonable for the distress  and inconvenience shes been  
caused including the upset of losing family  items with a sentimental value.
Lloyds has dealt with Mrs Ks complaint relatively  quickly, hasnt questioned her jewellers  
estimate and has paid the redress  to her. Overall I think Lloyds has acted fairly. And 
although I understand Mrs Ks frustration and strength  of feeling, I dont think  I can fairly ask 
it to do or pay anything more.
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3804654