K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Stephen Foster provided  unsuitable advice to transfer  his non-profit 
deferred annuity pension to a personal pension plan causing a loss in the value of his 
benefits.
background
Stephen Foster prepared  a suitability report for Mr B in May 2017. The report  was produced 
based on information that had been obtained  in a fact find by a third party financial advice 
firm (firm A). The suitability report identified that Mr B:
was 63 years old;
was married;
had three non-dependent children;
was in good health;
was unemployed  with a pension income of £2,424 a year.
Mr B had a deferred annuity pension policy. It would provide Mr B with an annuity at age 65 
of £7,574.51. This was for a level annuity  with a 50% spouses pension,  guaranteed for five 
years. There  was no option to retire earlier than age 65. And the pension  illustration had no 
indication that tax free cash could be taken in lieu of some of the annuity payment.
Mr B contacted the pension provider and established that it had a transfer value of around 
£120,812 as of 17 February 2017.  Which  was guaranteed for three  months.
Stephen Foster recommended that Mr B transfer his deferred annuity  pension to a personal 
pension drawdown  plan. And Mr B followed that advice. In March 2019  Mr B complained  to 
Stephen Foster that the advice had been  unsuitable.
Stephen Foster didnt  uphold  Mr Bs complaint. He explained that he hadnt had time to meet 
with Mr B prior to the advice because  the pension valuation hed been given was too close  to 
its expiry date when hed taken the referral. He considered that the advice was suitable to 
meet Mr Bs objective  of accessing  tax free cash from that pension,  prior to reaching  his 
retirement age of 65. Stephen Foster  explained  that no cash flow modelling was done 
because the purpose of the transfer was to access that pension  to provide a flexible income 
until state pension  age was reached.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked into it and thought  that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Stephen Foster  didnt agree with our investigators opinion.  He 
maintained that the advice provided Mr B with a way to meet his requirements.  And 
maintained that Mr B would have wanted to have transferred anyway.  So this case was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And for similar  reasons  to our investigator 
Im upholding it. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr B had originally approached firm A who provided a benefit summary and illustration of a 
potential receiving pension scheme.  The illustration showed Mr B taking the maximum 
Ref: DRN31794692pension commencement  lump sum (PCLS) of £30,203 and a regular annual income of 
£9,996. This was dated ahead of Stephen  Fosters  suitability report. So Stephen Foster was 
already aware  of the proposed receiving scheme when determining whether this transfer 
was suitable for Mr B.
Stephen Fosters suitability report was dated four days after the fact find by firm A. And 
Stephen Foster has explained  that he hadnt met or spoken with Mr B himself. He explained 
that he ordinarily would  have, but that time was short in this case. This is because Mr Bs 
quoted transfer value  expired on 17 May 2017. But producing this report so close to the 
deadline also meant that Mr B was left with little time to consider the recommendation or 
implications. Which I dont think was reasonable given the importance of the decision in 
question.
The suitability report should have provided  Mr B with a comparison of benefits  so that he 
could have properly  understood  whether he was likely to have been better or worse  off by 
transferring. But it didnt. It repeated the information Mr B already had about his deferred  
annuity. But provided no information about what his pension benefits  would look like 
following a transfer.  It explained that Mr B would have access  to 25% of the transfer value as 
tax free cash,  which would undoubtedly  look attractive. But I think  Mr B was already aware of 
this fact as it seems likely  it was the reason  he was considering the transfer in the first place. 
Stephen Fosters suitability report provided  no indication  of how long Mr B would be able to 
drawdown on his pension before the fund was exhausted. And he was given no indication  of 
what kind of annuity  he could purchase  with the residual pension  fund instead of utilising a 
drawdown. Stephen  Foster explained that this was because Mr B only needed to take a 
drawdown income until he reached state retirement  age. But that was only 16 months away. 
This was Mr Bs largest personal  pension,  so Stephen Foster shouldve considered how this 
would provide Mr B with benefits into his retirement too.
Im unable to see anything in the suitability report that shows that any consideration had 
been given to the likely investment returns Mr B could expect from his transferred pension. 
Or whether  that would be sufficient to provide him with the benefits he needed for long 
enough. Which  meant  no consideration  was given to Mr Bs attitude to risk or capacity for 
loss. I would have  expected to see that this had been considered and was explained to Mr B. 
Understanding what investment  returns may have been achievable  once the pension was 
transferred and in draw  down would have been  important  in assessing its potential  value.  
And understanding Mr Bs capacity for loss on this pension was important. He was giving up 
a guaranteed pension  that he had no investment risk with.
If the above things  had been considered I dont think that it would have looked financially 
viable to transfer Mr Bs deferred annuity.  In May 2017 the average annuity rate for a level, 
joint life annuity  (of two thirds income), guaranteed for five years  was around 4.1% for age 
65. In other words,  Mr Bs transfer  value would have been  able to buy an annuity of less than 
£5,000 a year on broadly similar  terms as the one he would be giving up. He couldnt have 
accessed his guaranteed annuity  with his scheme  for a further 16 months of course,  but in 
that time I think its highly  unlikely that any investment returns  would have had a significant 
impact on this. Overall, Mr Bs pension benefits would have been more valuable  being left 
where they were. Which  wasnt  stated with sufficient explanation in Stephen Fosters 
recommendation.
The summary of Stephen  Fosters suitability report focussed on Mr Bs requirement for the 
maximum tax free cash from his pension.  And the greater tax efficiency received through  
Ref: DRN31794693going into a drawdown pension. Stephen Foster said It is therefore recommended  that you 
transfer to a drawdown plan under which you can take your tax free cash and control  the 
income you draw. In particular, you can draw  a level of income up to age 65 which is not 
sustainable in the long term but fills your income  gap. You can then reduce your income 
drawings to a sustainable  level.  This fails to say what  drawdown income  would be 
sustainable  in the longer term. Mr B was given no idea what  long term impact such  a 
transfer would have on his future income in retirement.
As Ive said,  I think Mr B was attracted  to the idea of having a tax free lump sum and the 
chance to decide how much income  he took from his pension. But that doesnt mean that he 
needed it or that it should have been recommended. Stephen  Foster  made  no reference to 
Mr Bs estimated income  requirement in retirement. Firm As fact find indicated  that Mr B 
wanted an annual  income of £15,000. If this was the case, then from age 65 (16 months 
after the advice  was given),  Mr B could have had an income comfortably in excess  of that by 
leaving his deferred  annuity pension where it was. In failing to address what a sustainable 
level of drawdown  income  might  be in the future,  Stephen Foster  gave Mr B no indication 
what his future income might drop to. Or why he may be better off waiting to take his 
deferred annuity.
For the reasons  Ive given, I think this transfer  was likely to leave  Mr B with reduced pension 
benefits. So, Stephen Fosters starting  point should  have been  to recommend that Mr B 
leave his deferred pension where  it was. Stephen Foster needed to look very closely at the 
difference in the overall value of Mr Bs benefits.  He needed to make it clear  to Mr B whether 
he would  end up with benefits that were more or less valuable  as a result of transferring. And 
by how much. But the suitability report didnt provide that information. Instead the 
recommendation was based on the transfer  being the only way for Mr B to achieve specific 
aims.
Stephen Fosters suitability report indicated Mr B wanted to take the maximum PCLS  and 
have a flexible  way of taking his pension until he reached state pension age of 65. It also 
indicated that Mr B was concerned that Mrs B would only receive a spouses pension  of 50% 
of his pension  if he was to die first. Ill consider  these points in turn.
There is some disagreement now about  Mr Bs exact circumstances at the time. Mr Bs 
testimony is that he wasnt out of work. But wasnt enjoying his job, so was looking into 
whether he could stop work in 2017 rather than waiting until age 65. Stephen Foster never 
spoke to Mr B, so was basing his understanding of Mr Bs circumstances on information from 
firm A. That indicated that Mr B had already  stopped working, and therefore  needed the 
income from this pension to get to age 65. Mr B was married and explains that his wife had a 
pension at that time. But no reference is made to their joint finances at any stage. No 
questions appear  to be asked about  how Mr B and his wife were meeting their expenses  at 
that time.  Or whether  they could continue to until age 65 if they had to. Far too little time was 
taken to understand Mr Bs actual circumstances, and I think  the confusion now about his 
employment status is symptomatic of that. So, I think  its more likely than not, that had Mr B 
needed to wait a further 16 months to access his pension, he couldve done so without 
transferring the deferred annuity.
The fact find wasnt very clear about  why Mr B needed the PCLS  either. It simply said, for a 
property investment. Mr B said he wanted some  of it to loan to his son in law. But that this 
wasnt entirely necessary.  So I dont  think Mr Bs requirement for the PCLS was very well 
understood, or particularly compelling.  Stephen Foster could have contacted Mr B to explore 
this, but instead  chose  to rely on the limited information hed been passed. I think that its 
Ref: DRN31794694more likely than not, that the real reason for Mr B considering this transfer was the 
opportunity that it afforded to stop working  in a job he didnt enjoy.
Stephen Foster also reasoned that Mr B was concerned about the reduced pension in the 
event of his death.  But the fact find doesnt  provide me with convincing evidence  that this 
was a reason  of concern  either. Theres a note that a Level Term Assurance policy  with 
£50,000 of cover until age 85 was in place. So whilst the idea of a further lump sum 
potentially becoming  available would naturally be attractive,  I dont believe that this would  
have been an overriding  reason to give up a valuable guaranteed income. There wasnt  
enough investigation by Stephen Foster into Mr B and his wifes  overall  circumstances to be 
able to say that this transfer was made suitable because of a genuine need to provide lump  
sum death benefits.
For the reasons  that Ive given, I think that Stephen Foster should have advised Mr B not to 
transfer from his deferred  annuity pension. And his advice should have provided clear  
reasoning so that Mr B could understand exactly what difference  it would make to him. I 
understand that Stephen  Foster believes that Mr B wanted to transfer anyway.  But Mr B was 
never told that it wouldnt be suitable. So he wasnt ever treated as an insistent client (a 
client going against financial advice). But Ive considered whether advising Mr B not to 
transfer would have made a difference to whether hed have transferred or not.
I agree  that Mr B was most likely  interested in the idea of accessing his pension ahead  of his 
65th birthday so that he didnt have to continue  working. The option  to do this was made 
possible by the introduction of Pension  Freedoms. And for a retail  client, with little 
experience of pensions, it would  be an attractive idea to look into. But Ive not seen evidence 
that Mr Bs mind was made up prior to getting professional financial advice.
Mr B was only 16 months from being able to access both his state pension and his deferred 
annuity. So in a relatively short time hed have had sufficient  overall  income to meet the 
expenditure needs indicated in the fact find of the time. Whilst I cant  now know what  choice 
Mr B would have made if correctly advised, I have to consider that professional advice  is 
more often than not trusted and followed.  Had it been clear  to Mr B that by waiting 16 more  
months hed have had a guaranteed and secure  income that was sufficient for him to be able 
to sustain the lifestyle he wanted  in retirement,  versus reduced overall benefits with an 
uncertain long term income, I think its more  likely  than not that he wouldnt have transferred 
his deferred annuity pension.
putting things right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to 
the position hed probably now be in if hed been  given  suitable advice.
Stephen Foster should calculate:
Past loss/gain:
A. Work out the total that the Mr B has received to date  this will be a combination  of any 
tax-free lump sum and the net of tax income payments.
B. Work out the total that Mr B could have received to date had he taken his deferred  annuity 
from age 65  again, this will be a combination of any tax-free  lump  sum and the net of tax 
income payments.
Ref: DRN31794695If A is greater than B, Mr B has not suffered a past loss in the amounts received to date.
Given that Mr B had understood the amount that his deferred annuity would be, he wouldve  
most likely been aware that the income  he was taking was more than that. So I think  its 
reasonable to take into account a past gain when assessing a possible future loss.
Future loss:
C. Obtain the current  value of Mr Bs personal  pension plan.
D. Work out the gross cost now of purchasing an annuity providing the guaranteed  benefits 
which wouldve been provided by Mr Bs deferred  annuity policy,  using Mr Bs current  age.
If C is greater  than D, Mr B will not suffer a loss in the future.
if D is greater than C, Mr B will suffer a future loss
Redress
Stephen Foster should pay Mr B the future loss less the past gain. Due to Mr B having 
flexibly drawn income from his personal  pension, the redress most likely  cant  be paid into 
his pension to then purchase  an annuity.
Had it been possible to pay into the pension plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example,  if Mr B is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, the reduction would equal  the current basic rate of tax.
In addition, Stephen  Foster should:
pay Mr B £250 for the upset caused  by potentially facing a lower income in 
retirement;
provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format.
my final decision
For the reason  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint  against Stephen  Foster.  
I direct  Stephen Foster  to compensate Mr B in the manner I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3179469