K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complained about a running  account  facility he took out with Gain Credit LLC (trading 
as Drafty) in April 2018. He says Drafty irresponsibly provided him this facility at a time 
where he couldnt afford further debt.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr P and Drafty had told us. And he thought Draftys 
checks before giving Mr P his facility were proportionate. So he didnt  uphold  Mr Ps 
complaint. Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  high-cost lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Ps complaint.  
Mr P says Drafty shouldnt  have  given him his running account  facility. I think  it would be 
helpful for me to start by explaining that Drafty  gave Mr P this facility when it was regulated 
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  And the relevant regulatory rules in place at the 
time were set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) section of the FCA 
Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  And it says a firm had to consider the potential for the 
commitments under  the regulated credit agreement to adversely impact the customers 
financial situation  as well as the ability of the customer  to make repayments  as they fall due 
over the life of the regulated credit agreement, or for such  an agreement  which  is an open-
end agreement (like Mr Ps facility) , to make payments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2 also includes some guidance  on the sorts  of things a lender  needs to bear in 
mind when considering  its obligations  under CONC 5.2.1.  Section 5.2.4(2) says a firm 
should consider  what  is appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what  a lender should bear in mind when 
thinking about affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1) says In making the creditworthiness assessment 
or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account more than 
assessing the customers ability to repay the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2) then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required 
by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences..
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether Drafty did what it needed to before 
agreeing to Mr Ps facility.  As explained, Mr P was given what  was an open-ended  credit 
Ref: DRN37588462facility. So overall  I think  that this means the checks Drafty carried  out had to provide enough 
for it to be able to understand  whether Mr P would be able to both service and then repay his 
facility within  a reasonable  period of time.  
As Mr Ps credit agreement contained  a hypothetical  repayment schedule (should the total 
amount available have been  drawn  down) requiring monthly payments of around  £170  in 
order for the facility to be repaid within a reasonable period of time. So, in these 
circumstances, I think  that Drafty  needed to carry out proportionate and sufficient checks to 
ensure itself that Mr P could make  monthly repayments of £188.
Drafty says it agreed to Mr Ps application  after hed provided details of his monthly income  
and expenditure  and carried  out a credit  check.  It says the information it gathered  showed  
that Mr P would be able to comfortably make payments  of £188 a month. And in these 
circumstances it was reasonable  to lend. On the other hand,  Mr P says his full credit  file and 
his bank statements  wouldve shown the extent of his existing indebtedness and made  it 
clear that he couldnt  afford to repay any further credit.
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr P and Drafty  have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Mr Ps first loan with Drafty. The information provided  does  suggest  that Mr P 
was asked to provide  details of his income and expenditure. Bearing in mind the amount of 
the monthly repayment, the questions Drafty asked Mr P, the absence  of any adverse 
information on the credit check  carried out and this was Mr Ps first loan, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Drafty  to rely on the information Mr P provided.
I accept Mr Ps actual financial position wasnt reflected  either in the information  provided, or 
the information Drafty obtained. And Mr Ps actual financial  position  is apparent  from his full 
credit file and his bank  statements. Im also sorry to hear Mr P was struggling  financially and 
repaying this facility has proved difficult.  But Drafty could only make  its decision based on 
the information it had available at the time. And, at this stage of the lending relationship 
between the parties,  I dont think proportionate  checks wouldve extended into Drafty asking 
Mr P to evidence what he was declaring, or it asking him for his bank statements.  
Equally I can only uphold a complaint where  I can safely  say a lender  did something wrong. 
And, in this case,  I dont think Drafty did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr P - it 
carried out a reasonable  and proportionate  check.  Drafty reasonably  relied on the 
information provided with and given  the amount of the repayments involved and Mr Ps loan 
history, I dont think it was unreasonable for Drafty to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious,  in the information it had, to suggest Mr P wouldnt be able to sustainably  
repay these  loans.
So overall I think the checks Drafty carried out were proportionate. As this is the case, Im 
not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
Ref: DRN37588463my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3758846