K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies. 
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), 
mis-sold two MPPI policies to them with their mortgage, in 1986 and again in 1991. It seems 
a close relative, the late Ms W, was also involved in these sales as she lived with Mr and 
Mrs T. 
Mr and Mrs T say they have no recollection  of ever agreeing to MPPI  on either occasion and 
didnt even know they had such cover.
background
One of our adjudicators said that they didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and 
Mrs T still think the MPPI  was mis-sold  and they have asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and I have taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Having done this Im not upholding this complaint.
These events are from a long time ago. So its possible and indeed reasonable that much of 
the documentation or facts just wont be available anymore. 
This isnt particularly unusual. Businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely and 
because this mortgage account  was also redeemed many years ago, there is an expectation 
that records will be weeded in accordance with Data Protection rules.
Its also quite likely  that the passage of time will make remembering what happened quite 
difficult too. I certainly dont doubt that Mr and Mrs T genuinely and honestly  now feel the two 
policies were mis-sold to them, but the first sale for example,  was some 33 years ago and 
Im afraid theres very little other evidence to say the cover  was mis-sold.
Lloyds cant say what the methods of sale were, although it makes an assumption that they 
took place in branch settings. I also note Mr and Mrs Ts frustration about being  initially  told 
there wasnt any MPPI with their mortgage but as Ive said this was all a long time ago. 
But it looks  like Mr and Mrs T (and the late Ms W) had three main borrowing events in 
relation to their C&G mortgage. The 1986 and 1991 mortgage advances  had MPPI attached; 
a 1997 advance didnt.
From the records Ive seen, the first mortgage application form was completed   and signed 
by Mr and Mrs T (and the late Ms W) - on 2 April 1986. I see from the copy we have that the 
application form doesnt actually cater for the MPPI to be agreed  at that stage. But it does 
ask the applicant(s)  to indicate if they would like more information about this type of cover by 
ticking a box. I note this box was ticked  on Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage application form and all 
the parties signed the form.
Ref: DRN35467792So the only indication  we have for this mortgage  is that Mr and Mrs T (and the late Ms W) all 
asked for and agreed to learning more  about  MPPI by being given a quote.  
As Ive said,  because of the lack of other relevant documentation, we cant say for sure they 
definitely went on to agree  to buy a policy. But on the balance  of probabilities, I think  its 
more likely they did. The policy cost £6.53  per month and I think  Mr and Mrs T (and the late 
Ms W) would  have had to agree if the cover was to be set up on their mortgage.  And they 
would have probably had to enable  the monthly premium to leave a bank account to pay for 
the policy. I also think they would have been given something which explained what the 
policy did and who was covered.
In 1991 a further policy was set up for them to cover additional borrowing on the mortgage. 
Weve got no documents at all for this sale but Lloyds computer records  show it cost £10.80  
per month. And of course, for me to agree with Mr and Mrs Ts recollections, Id need  to 
believe the MPPI was added without their consent or knowledge for a second time, 5 years 
after the first.
So theres as much  to say the cover was agreed  to  as to say it wasnt. And I think what Ive 
said above in relation  to the first sale remains relevant for this sale too. I think the process 
would have been similar. My experience is that C&G  presented its documentation about  
MPPI to consumers, which then required agreements and signatures.  The amount leaving 
their account  to pay for the MPPI would have increased as it covered a larger amount of 
borrowing.
This brings  us to the issue  of suitability. We dont know  whether these were  advised sales 
but lets say they were - this is because advised  sales carry a higher duty in that the seller 
needs to assess  and confirm that the cover  was suitable for the consumers circumstances. 
From what  Mr and Mrs T have told us about  their circumstances  of that time, I think it was 
suitable because  they were eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. We dont know  exactly what or who was 
covered for sure, but the costs seem to me to be in line with the type of cover  that was being 
sold across the market at that particular time and it was designed to be of use in unexpected 
circumstances.
I can see Mr and Mrs T both had good jobs and I think their protection from sickness and 
unemployment would have been relatively  good. But Im afraid this doesnt  make the MPPI 
of no use. The mortgage was secured against their home and so the consequences of not 
being able to pay it could have been serious. The policy, on the other hand, wouldve paid 
out a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months  if they had needed to claim and this would have 
been in addition to any other means  they had in place at the time.
I think all these things make the cover useful  and I dont think  that recommending it was 
unreasonable. I think the cover was suitable.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear so Mr and Mrs T (and the late Ms W) 
could make informed  decisions about  whether or not they wanted MPPI.  I simply cant  say 
they were told everything they shouldve been told. But of course, this sale was a while ago. 
Finally, Mr and Mrs T have asked me to consider the issue  high levels  of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium), seen  in certain MPPI sales. Im afraid the 
Ref: DRN35467793dates of their mortgage dont fit with the recently  issued guidance on this and so they wont  
be due anything back for commission related matters.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  And I dont require  Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr and Mrs T and 
the estate of the late Ms W, any money. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3546779