complaint
Ms T complains that Topaz Finance Limited  has wrongly applied payments shes  made 
towards her mortgage and arrears. And shes unhappy  with how Topaz has treated her.
background
In November  2007 Ms T took out a 25 year repayment mortgage  for around £104,000 with a 
lender (the original  lender). Advice about the mortgage was given to Ms T by another  
company that went out of business in 2011.
Ms T had a fixed rate of interest of 8.49% until 31 December 2009.  From  1 January 2010
she moved onto a variable rate that tracked at 3.9%  above the Bank  of England  base rate. If 
payment was made by direct debit  Ms T got a discount of 0.25% (included  in the 3.9%)  but 
this was removed  if payment  was made  in another way.
The original  lender transferred Ms Ts loan to Topaz Finance Limited (Topaz) on 15
October 2017. Topaz became  responsible  for the loan and its administration  from the date 
the loan began. There was no change in the terms and conditions of Mr Ts loan. As Topaz is 
now responsible  for this loan, Ill include the actions of the previous lender  when  I refer to 
Topaz.
Due to some very difficult personal circumstances and ill health Ms T struggled to make  
payments from around the middle of 2008 and arrears and charges of around £23,000 had 
built up by October 2010. The original lender got a possession order against Ms T in October
2010 which was suspended on the basis Ms T paid her contractual  monthly  payment  (CMP) 
plus an additional sum each month.  Later  payment arrangements were agreed  with Ms T 
when she wasnt able to keep up the payments ordered by the court.
Ms T didnt manage  to make all of the payments shed  been ordered or agreed  to make on 
time and charges and additional interest  were added to her account as a result.  Ms T doesnt  
think the payments  shes made have been  allocated to the balance of her mortgage and the 
arrears correctly. And shes unhappy  with how Topaz has treated her. 
She complained to Topaz in June 2018.  Topaz  didnt uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Our 
investigator thought  Ms Ts payments had been  applied to her account correctly. Ms T didnt 
accept our investigators view so I looked at everything afresh.  I recently issued a provisional 
decision an extract of which follows:
my provisional decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN3890451K821x#15Before I set out my findings, I think its important to make clear the complaint Im 
considering. Ms T says shes complained to Topaz and the original  lender  many times 
over the years.  From  what Ive seen,  Ms T made  several complaints from 2014 onwards 
that the previous lender  and then Topaz responded to but Ms T didnt  refer to this service.  
The complaint Ms T has brought  to this service and which Im reviewing was made to 
Topaz in June 2018. Ms T raised several  issues and Topaz responded on 19 July 2018. Ill 
consider each of those issues separately.
 mis-sale of the mortgage
When Ms T took out her mortgage she was advised on it by a company thats gone out of 
business. Ms Ts unhappy she was sold the mortgage as she doesnt think  it was suitable 
for her. But the sale of the mortgage isnt something  I can look at in relation  to Topaz  as 
neither it nor the original lender was responsible for the sale.  Topaz  explained correctly  to 
Ms T she could contact  the Financial Services Compensation Scheme about  this issue.
 no response  to previous complaint
Ms T complained  she hadnt received a response to an earlier  complaint shed made. 
Topaz said it had posted its final response letter to her and it hadnt been  returned. Ive no 
reason to doubt this. Topaz sent Ms T another copy of the letter  with its final response letter 
dated 19 July 2018, which is what Id expect  it to have done. And I think this was enough to 
resolve that part of Mr Ts complaint.
 information  requested from Topaz  by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)
and the Financial Ombudsman  Service  wasnt  provided by Topaz
I havent seen any evidence of Ms T raising  any issues  about  her mortgage with the FCA 
or of the FCA asking Topaz to provide information.
At the time Ms T raised  this issue, this service  hadnt asked for any information  from Topaz 
about the complaint Im now looking at, so I wouldnt expect it to have provided  us with 
any. Topaz has responded to the requests for information weve  made since  we started  
investigating the complaint. So I dont uphold this part of Ms Ts complaint.
 unhappy with timescales for dealing  with complaint
Topaz responded to Ms Ts complaint within the eight week  timescale allowed by relevant
FCA rules.  So I dont  uphold this part of Ms Ts complaint.
 the suspended possession order obtained by the original  lender cant 
be enforced by Topaz
This is an issue about legal procedure which isnt something Im able to comment on.
 Topaz was setting interest rates for the mortgage without  taking account  of the 
Bank of England base rate as it should
Ms Ts mortgage offer explained interest  was fixed for the first two years, until 31 December
Ref: DRN389045132009, at 8.49% and was on a variable rate after that. The variable interest rate 
tracked against the Bank of England base rate - as Ms T has rightly  pointed out.
The rate was 3.9% above the base rate if payment was made by direct debit. Although Ms 
T paid by direct debit  at first, she changed the way she paid around September  2008.  So 
she lost the discount for paying by direct  debit and has been paying a higher  amount of 
interest, 4.15% above the base rate, as a result.
The original lender  and Topaz wrote to Ms T to explain changes in the interest rates 
applying to her mortgage from time to time and the amounts shed have to pay each  month 
as a result  of the changes.
For example, when the base rate changed to 0.25% in August 2016, Ms T was told her 
interest rate would be 4.40%  from 1 September 2016  the base rate plus 4.15%; when 
the base rate changed to 0.5%  in November 2011,  Ms T was told her interest  rate would 
be 4.65%  from December 2017  the base  rate plus 4.15%; and when the base rate 
changed to 0.75% in August 2018, Ms T was told her interest rate would be 4.90% - the 
base rate plus 4.15%.
So, from what Ive seen I think Ms T has been charged interest at the correct rate and 
told about any changes. So I dont  uphold this part of Ms Ts complaint.
 payments made by Ms T havent been properly applied  to the balance of 
her mortgage and the arrears  shes built  up. If they had, the amount she 
owes wouldnt be so high. And the refund she was due following the 
review Topaz  carried out of her mortgage hasnt been paid to Ms T as it 
shouldve been
As Ive mentioned,  soon  after Ms T took out her mortgage with the original  lender  she 
found herself in some  very difficult personal  circumstances and ill health.  She struggled  to 
pay her mortgage from around  the middle of 2008 onwards building up significant  arrears 
and charges of around  £23,000 by October 2010.
The original  lender got a possession order against Ms T in October 2010 which was 
suspended on the basis Ms T paid her contractual monthly payment (CMP)  plus an 
additional sum each month. Ms T wasnt always able to pay in full or on time but later 
payment arrangements  were agreed with her. This meant she could  carry on paying 
the CMP and an additional amount towards  the arrears without incurring charges, as 
long as she paid in accordance with the agreements.
In spite of her difficulties, Ms T made  efforts to keep up with the payments. And more
recently she was able to increase  the amount she was paying  in addition  to the CMP to try 
to reduce her arrears more quickly. Ms T says she doesnt understand why her arrears are 
still so high. Shes says since shes been  paying more that the CMP for around the last eight 
years her arrears balance should  be a lot less than it is.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage allow charges to be put on Ms Ts account 
where, for example, she doesnt make the payments shes agreed to make at all or when 
shes agreed to make them. Details of the charges  tariffs  that have applied from time to time 
have been sent to Ms T. Because of the arrears  and because Ms T hasnt always managed  
to pay what  shes  agreed to pay, various  charges have  been added to her account over the 
Ref: DRN38904514lifetime of the mortgage. These charges  have  increased significantly the amount she owes  
overall.
The original  lender and Topaz have sent Ms T regular  annual statements which I think show  
clearly the charges that have been  added to Ms Ts account since  she took it out. And 
Topaz sent Ms T a statement setting out all of the charges shes  incurred with its final 
response letter (FRL).
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage also allowed the original lender and Topaz to 
charge interest  on the arrears that had built up on Ms Ts account. Topaz has explained no 
interests been charged on the arrears since March  2017. But the amount Ms T owes 
overall will have increased  because of the additional  interest  she incurred on the arrears 
until that time.
I think the charges and additional  interest explain why the amount Ms T owes  now is 
higher than she expects  it to be.
Some of the charges on Ms Ts account were  added too long ago for me to consider. In 
the early part of the mortgage Ms T missed  a lot of payments and the original lender found 
her difficult  to get hold of. She incurred charges for missed direct  debits,  monthly arrears, 
appointment of a field agent  to contact her and solicitors costs when repossession 
proceedings were  taken  against her. The terms and conditions allowed these sorts of
charges to be put on Ms Ts account. I cant  make  a finding about whether they were fair 
and reasonable here. But charges are more likely  to be fair and reasonable where a lender 
has had to take the sorts of extra steps  to manage a persons  mortgage  it took in Ms Ts 
case.
I can consider the charges that were added to Ms Ts account from June 2012 onwards.
In August 2012 the original lender arranged for a field agent to visit Ms T and she incurred 
a charge of £66 for this in September that year. Ms T hadnt been making payments in line 
with the payment arrangement shed  agreed with the original lender and it found her 
difficult to contact by telephone. For similar reasons a field agent was also instructed to 
visit Ms T in around March 2014, leading to another charge  in April 2014 of £90 and in 
October 2014 leading to a charge of £54 that month. In the circumstances I think it was 
reasonable for the original lender to use a field agent to discuss  the arrears  and her 
situation with Ms T. And the terms and conditions allowed the charge to be raised.
Solicitors costs of £42 were added  to Ms Ts account in September 2012 and £36 in May
2014. Although  the terms and conditions allowed legal costs incurred by the original 
lender in taking  possession  proceedings to be charged to Ms Ts account,  from what  Ive 
seen the possession proceedings werent  actively  being pursued at these times. I dont 
think it was fair and reasonable to add these charges to Ms Ts account and they should 
be refunded.
Arrears fees of £600 were added to Ms Ts account  on 30 April 2013,  £500 on 30 April 
2014 and £50 on 30 April 2016. The terms and conditions allowed an arrears fee of £50 a 
month to be added to the account for each  month  arrears of one month or more  were 
outstanding. And the fees that had built up over the previous 12 months were added  to the 
account in the April of the following year.
Ref: DRN38904515The arrears  fees were to cover the cost of the extra administrative work the original  lender  
had to do to manage the arrears. Ms T was in arrears by more  than a months arrears 
during these times. So I think the fees were in line with the terms and conditions. And the 
original lender was working with Ms T to manage the arrears. The original lender agreed  a 
number of payment  arrangements  with Ms T during this time as well. I would expect  a 
lender not to charge  arrears fees while a payment  arrangement was in place. But Ms T 
wasnt able to keep  up with the payments she agreed to make. And the original lender was 
working with her to manage the arrears. So I think it was fair and reasonable for the fees to 
be charged.
Ms Ts concerned  that payments shes made in addition to the CMP havent been applied  to 
the arrears and that an adjustment made to her account in line with FCA Guidance issued in 
April 2017 hasnt been paid to her in the right way.
The FCA guidance was issued to lenders that had automatically included  customers arrears  
balances when working out the CMPs customers needed to pay. This practice led to 
customers paying higher CMPs which reduced  a customers mortgage balance and the 
interest charged. But in some cases the higher payment wasnt  used  to reduce the arrears  
which then took longer  to clear.  And some customers had to pay extra  arrears  management  
charges as a result.
The FCA required firms  to review  the accounts  of customers  whod been  affected and take 
steps to put things right. This meant reworking the accounts from June 2010 to put 
customers in the position  they wouldve been in if the accounts had been handled 
properly. The firms also had to explain clearly and fairly to customers what had happened 
and how they were putting  things right. And the firms had to complete this work by the end 
of June 2018.
Ms T was right to be concerned her payments hadnt been applied as they shouldve  
been as her account was one that had to be reviewed in line with the FCA guidelines.
The original  lender wrote to Ms T at the beginning of February 2017, before the guidance 
came into effect, to tell her about changes it was going to make  to the way it worked out her 
mortgage payments  from 1 March 2017.  This was so, from then on, it was working out the 
payments in the right way.
I think the letter tried to explain
 in future  the CMP would be made  up of the amount  required to pay the capital 
and interest on her original loan
 interest would  still be charged  on the arrears
 Ms T would still have  to pay off the arrears
 the total amount shed have to pay each month was made up of the new CMP and 
the additional amount shed agreed  to pay under the payment arrangement in 
place at the time
But I dont think the letter explained things as clearly  as it shouldve done. And Topaz has 
since explained no interest was charged on the arrears since March  2017 so I dont think 
it was accurate either.
Topaz wrote to Ms T on 21 June 2018  (the redress  letter)  after it had completed  its 
review of Ms Ts account under the FCA guidance. It explained the remedial action it had 
Ref: DRN38904516taken to make sure Ms T hadnt been  disadvantaged was to adjust her mortgage account 
by reducing the arrears  she owed as at the end of May 2018 by £837.12. I think  it was 
reasonable for Topaz  to refund Ms T in that way and Im satisfied the refund  was made.
I havent seen any evidence to suggest the calculations carried  out by Topaz  were  
wrong. And I think Topazs explanation about  how the calculation was carried out was 
clear and followed the FCA guidance.
As Mr Ts arrears  were so high,  even if some of the payments shed been making had 
been applied  to the arrears as they shouldve been,  it wouldnt have made  a real difference 
to her account. She wouldnt have been  in credit or avoided paying any charges. So she 
wasnt entitled to any compensatory interest  or a refund of any charges.
 communication and treatment of Ms T by Topaz
Ms Ts unhappy she hasnt had a clear explanation from Topaz  about  what  she owes  
and how the payments shes  been making  have been applied to her mortgage account. 
She doesnt think the information in the documents Topaz has given her matches up.
Ms T spoke to Topaz agents on the phone  several  times during June and July 2018. From 
what Ive seen the agents Ms T spoke  to made reasonable  efforts  to explain to her what  
she owed overall,  the interest she was being  charged and the amount of her arrears at the 
time of the calls.
But I think some of the information Topaz has provided hasnt been as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, Ive mentioned the February 2017 letter  above. The 
statements Topaz sent Ms T with its FRL, taken together showed
 the CMP;
 the amounts  Ms Ts been  paying;
 the adjustment made in June  2018  following the FCA review;
 the fees and charges shes incurred; and
 the reducing balance of Ms Ts arrears
But they didnt show the overall balance of Ms Ts account. And at first Ms T didnt get a
clear explanation about why her CMP was increasing from 1 July 2018. Although the 
redress letter said it was going up, it wasnt until Ms T asked why  since  interest rates  
hadnt changed  that she was told later this was so she would be paying enough to make 
sure she paid off the mortgage by the end of the term in 2032.
Ms Ts unhappy about the way Topaz has treated her and has felt harassed.  Im conscious 
Ms T has had some very difficult personal  issues and ill-health to deal with over the last 
few years.  I can understand that managing her mortgage payments alongside this has 
been particularly  stressful for Ms T. Overall I think Topaz has treated Ms T fairly and taken 
her circumstances into account.
Topaz has been in regular  contact  with Ms T and considered ways of helping her get 
back on track, including agreeing a number of payment arrangements with her. Although 
the contact has sometimes upset Ms T, I dont  think Topaz has behaved unreasonably. 
Its adjusted its behaviour to take account of Ms Ts circumstances and preferences.  For 
example, for a period of time it agreed  not to contact  her by telephone and only write to 
her. And it agreed not to use certain  expressions which  she found upsetting when leaving 
Ref: DRN38904517telephone messages for her. Given the level of the arrears, I think  its reasonable for 
Topaz to want to make sure theyre cleared by the end of the mortgage term. And I think 
Topaz has been working with Ms T in a reasonable way to try to achieve that.
But, as Ive mentioned, I think  there have been times  when Topaz couldve explained things 
more clearly to Ms T. And I can understand why this has caused Ms T some  distress and 
the inconvenience of having to contact Topaz for an explanation on several occasions.  
Bearing everything in mind I think its fair and reasonable for Topaz  to explain things more  
clearly and to pay Ms T some  compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes  
suffered. I therefore intend to uphold Ms Ts complaint in part.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold  Ms Ts complaint in part and to require Topaz Finance Limited  to
1. Provide Ms T with an up to date statement  of account setting out in one document
 the CMP
 the amounts  Ms Ts been  paying
 the adjustment made in June  2018  following the FCA review
 the fees and charges shes incurred
 the balance  of Ms Ts arrears
 the balance  of the account  net of the arrears; and
 the overall balance of the account inclusive of the arrears
from the beginning of the mortgage to date
2. Refund Ms T solicitors costs of £78 plus interest  at 8% simple for the date 
the charges were  added to her account  until the date of payment.
3. Pay Ms T £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Topaz Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest,  it should tell Ms T how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Ms T a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
developments
Ms T and Topaz have both responded to my provisional decision.
Ms Ts concerned the outstanding arrears balance is higher than she thinks it should be. She 
thinks interest has been applied to the arrears and charges to her account  when they 
shouldnt have been. 
Ms Ts worried  she will still owe money  at the end of the term of her mortgage.  And she 
thinks Topaz gave the court the wrong information about the amount she needed  to pay in 
addition to her CMP to clear her arrears.
Ms Ts unhappy because  Topaz wont tell her what she needs to pay to make  sure she pays 
off her loan and any arrears by the end of the mortgage term.
Ref: DRN38904518Topaz doesnt agree it should  refund the solicitors costs of £78. Its explained £42 was for 
issuing a letter before  warrant and £36 was for the solicitors costs of closing  their file. 
Otherwise Topaz accepts  my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thought about  the concerns Ms T has mentioned since I issued my provisional decision 
when I came to my original conclusions about her complaint.  Ms T hasnt provided any new 
information for me to consider about  why she thinks her arrears are wrong  and shes been 
overcharged interest and charges. So I dont see any reason to change  my decision based 
on what shes now said.
In my provisional decision I said Topaz should provide Ms T with an up to date statement of 
account and I set out what  information that statement should contain. If Ms T accepts my 
decision and Topaz provides  the statement, it ought to give Ms T the information she wants  
about her arrears, the interest and charges  added  to her account  and what  she needs to pay 
to clear her loan and any arrears by the end of the term.
I cant comment on what happened  during the legal proceedings.
I dont think it was reasonable  for Ms T to be charged a solicitors fee of £36 for simply 
closing their file and not taking any action in connection with the recovery of arrears or 
repossessing Ms Ts property. So I still think Topaz  should refund that fee, with interest, to 
Ms T.
However, I can see Topaz considered carefully  whether it should instruct  its solicitors to 
issue a letter before warrant before doing  so in September  2012. It thought  about  Ms Ts 
situation and wrote to her about her arrears  before taking the step to involve solicitors. But 
Ms T didnt respond to Topazs attempts  to contact her. In the circumstances,  on reflection, I 
think it was reasonable  for them to instruct their solicitors to send  the letter before warrant  
and to add the £42 fee to Ms Ts account.  
Subject to that, I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. For the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision I uphold Ms Ts complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ts complaint in part and I direct Topaz Finance Limited 
to
1. Provide Ms T with an up to date statement  of account setting out in one document
 the CMP
 the amounts  Ms Ts been  paying
 the adjustment made in June  2018  following the FCA review
 the fees and charges shes incurred
 the balance  of Ms Ts arrears
Ref: DRN38904519 the balance  of the account  net of the arrears; and
 the overall balance of the account inclusive of the arrears
from the beginning of the mortgage to date
2.   Refund Ms T solicitors costs of £36 plus interest  at 8% simple from the date 
the charge was added  to her account  until the date of payment.
3.   Pay Ms T £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Topaz Finance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest,  it should tell Ms T how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Ms T a tax deduction  certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3890451