K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2018, Mr S contacted Aviva to say it had mis-sold him a PPI policy with his Home  Shopping 
account in 1997. Aviva upheld his complaint. But it told Mr S that hed made  three successful 
claims on the policy. As the amount hed received was a lot more than hed paid, it said he 
wasnt due any compensation. Mr S told us he didnt make a claim on the policy. And he wants  
Aviva to refund the amount he paid for PPI  with simple  interest  (at 8% per year).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Aviva has sent us Mr S transaction history,  which shows claim payments being made to the 
account. The same  transaction  history shows the PPI premiums being charged each month. 
Mr S has questioned the authenticity of the transaction  history.  When  he asked Aviva for 
more information  about the claims, it told him hed made three separate  claims for knee 
pain, between the following dates: October  1998 and July 1999; January  2000 and July 
2000; and, June 2001 and January  2002.  The letter included a date when the claims were 
certified by GP.
Mr S is very unhappy that Aviva said his GP provided it with information   and has sent us a 
letter from his GPs  practice, which says it didnt.
Mr S has also sent us the following:
medical records  from 1993 to 1995  about an injury he sustained  in 1993;
documents  from HM Revenue & Customs and payslips from 2001;  and,
evidence  that shows he received incapacity benefits (IB) between 1999  and 2003.
He says the injury  he sustained  in 1993  meant he struggled to find work, and he was 
registered as a disabled person in 1996. He says he didnt know he had PPI and didnt 
make any claim. Its clear  Mr S feels very strongly  about this. And I accept that he sustained 
a serious injury in 1993 that affected his ability to work.  But I dont think this means  the 
claims werent possible, or even less likely.
Nor do I think Avivas use of the words certified by GP in its recent letter  to Mr S casts 
doubt on the claims. I wouldnt  expect Aviva to have  retained paperwork or evidence about 
claims that were made 20 years ago. The certification could have simply been a doctors 
note (sometimes called a fitness for work statement) that Mr S got to give his employer,  his 
local benefits office or for some  other  purpose. I dont think  Aviva is necessarily saying it 
contacted his GP  or that his GP provided Aviva with information directly.
Ref: DRN37361212Ultimately, Ive no reason  to doubt the authenticity  of the transaction  history. Mr S says he 
didnt know he had PPI. The transaction history is the only evidence Ive seen  that shows  
how much  he paid for PPI. It also shows claim payments. I dont doubt Mr S sincerity when 
he says he didnt make a claim. But it was a long time ago and memories  fade with time. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Mr S made the claims on the policy.
When a business  accepts, or we decide, that a PPI policy was mis-sold, Id expect it to put 
the consumer  in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt had PPI. To do this, it 
should refund whatever the consumer paid for PPI, with simple interest. But if the consumer 
made a successful claim, I think its fair for the business to deduct  the value of the claim first. 
I say this because  if the consumer  didnt  have PPI, they wouldnt have been able to make 
the claim.
As Mr S paid a lot less for PPI than he received, I dont think  Aviva  needs to pay him any 
compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Aviva  Insurance Limited needs to pay Mr S any 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3736121