K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 1996. It 
was sold to Miss G when she took out a credit  card with Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays). 
background
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and was of the opinion  that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Miss G didnt  agree with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover under the policy. Based on 
her circumstances, I think Miss G met these rules. So I think shed have been able to claim 
on the PPI if she needed  to.
Next Ive looked at whether Barclays made it clear enough to Miss G that the policy was 
optional. Barclays has sent us a copy of the agreement which  Miss G completed. There 
were two boxes. One indicated yes and the other no  for Miss G to choose or decline the 
PPI. She ticked the box to say that she wanted to take out the policy  and she signed the 
agreement. 
Having read this, I think its most likely  that Miss G would have understood that the policy  
was optional, because  she could have selected no. So overall,  I think Barclays  made it 
sufficiently clear to Miss G that she didnt have to take out the PPI.
Next, Barclays didnt  recommend the policy to Miss G so it wasnt required to check that the 
PPI was right for her. However Barclays was required  to give her information that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so she could make  the decision for herself about whether or not to 
take out the policy. 
Ive considered the likelihood that Barclays didnt give Miss G clear enough information 
about the cost,  benefits, main exclusions and restrictions  of the PPI. Miss G told us she 
thinks that she didnt  need the policy because if she was too ill to work or was made 
unemployed shed have  been entitled  to full pay for six months  and half pay for the following 
six months. But the cost of the PPI was comparable to the cost of other, similar policies 
available at the time. And Miss G chose to take it out, so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. 
Ref: DRN34022882Ive also considered the possibility that Barclays didnt point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But looking at her circumstances, Miss G wouldnt have been  affected by any of 
those things. So on balance, I dont think its likely  that better  information would have 
dissuaded Miss G from buying the PPI. And overall,  I dont think  this policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3402288