K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mr J complain  that Amtrust Europe  Limited has mishandled  a claim they made 
under their building  warranty.  Mr B and Mr J are assisted in their complaint by Mr H.
Amtrust is the underwriter  of the warranty and so responsible for the claim. However, it uses 
a third party to manage and administer its claims. References to Amtrust  should be taken to 
include this third party administrator.
background
I sent Mr B and Mr J and Amtrust my provisional decision on 18 October 2019, in which  I 
explained that the ombudsman who previously reviewed the case,  explained the background 
in their second provisional decision  dated  24 June 2019. For the sake  of completeness,  Ill 
repeat this here:
Mr B and Mr J purchased  a new home  in July 2015.  Unhappy  with a number of issues, they 
registered a claim against  the new home  warranty on 11 November 2015.
Amtrust carried  out a technical survey of the property in January 2016. This identified  92 
items of complaint,  of which over 40 were  considered to be defects under the definition of 
the Local Authority Building Control  Technical Manual (the technical manual) and so were  
covered under the new home warranty. This included a number of issues  relating to the 
windows and window  frames, including the window in the master  bedroom and the apex  
window in the front of the property.
The developer, P, and its contractor C were given the opportunity to put defects right,  as was 
required under  the warrantys  dispute  resolution process. Unfortunately  the developer went  
into liquidation  and the contractor was unable or unwilling to resolve all the issues. In 
July 2016, Amtrust took on the claim itself.
In August  2016,  Amtrust  carried  out a second survey to see what issues remained 
outstanding. This identified  32 items of complaint remaining, almost all of which  were  
considered defects under the technical  manual. Two months later,  in October 2016, Amtrust  
told Mr B and Mr J it would appoint a local contractor to prepare  a full schedule  of works. A 
contractor quoted for the works in November 2016, but owing to the size and extent of the 
job it was agreed to put the works out to tender.
Some months later, in March 2017, Amtrust visited Mr B and Mr J to discuss a proposed 
schedule of works. It assured them that work would soon be underway. When nothing had 
transpired by April, Mr J complained to Amtrust.  A surveyor  was then appointed to prepare  
the schedule of works and in May 2017  Amtrust gave a final response  to Mr B and Mr J, 
saying that work would now commence. A schedule  of works was finally  provided in 
June 2017. At this point it was approaching two years since Mr B and Mr J had registered  
their initial claim. Frustrated with the lack of progress, they appointed a representative, Mr H, 
to help manage their claim and push for works  to begin. Following  this appointment, Amtrust 
confirmed it accepted the claim and visited the property to discuss next steps with 
Mr B and Mr J.
It was another  three months before  Amtrust confirmed the beginning of works   and it told 
Mr B and Mr J it would be C whod return to put things right. Mr B and Mr J didnt accept this, 
Ref: DRN38096792pointing to Cs earlier failure to remedy defects. There  was then a further delay while  
alternative contractors were found.
In December 2017, Mr B and Mr J paid the £500  policy excess. Shortly afterwards they 
referred their complaint  about  the general  delays  and lack of progress to this service  and we 
began investigating.
In May 2018  our investigator gave his opinion, saying that Amtrust had caused numerous 
delays. He recommended  £750 in compensation as well as for Amtrust to cover Mr Hs 
professional fees.  Amtrust didnt accept the investigators view and the complaint was 
referred to me for a final decision.
In the meantime, works had been  continuing at Mr B and Mr Js property, but with little 
progress. In August  2018 Amtrust  said that issues with the window frame in the master 
bedroom hadnt been identified within  the first two years of the warranty and so would fall 
under the structural  insurance period (issues arising  within 3 to 10 years  of a new home 
being built),  rather than the defect insurance period (issues arising within the first two years  
of a new home being built). A further  £1,000 policy excess was therefore payable. 
Mr B and Mr J disputed  this charge, pointing to the initial survey  in January 2016 that 
mentioned issues  with the window in the master  bedroom. Nonetheless, they agreed  to pay 
it in order to speed up works on their home,  which were still ongoing.  Amtrust  later accepted 
the issues with the frame  had been raised  within the first two years and refunded the £1,000  
excess in December 2018.
Amtrust also felt the issues  with the apex window  had only been identified within the 
structural insurance period. It didnt  consider  the issues with the window were sufficient to 
constitute a claim under  the policy terms and so offered a cosmetic repair  as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr B and Mr J declined  this as not improving the appearance of the window or 
resolving the defects.
Mr B and Mr J have  also complained about  the television  aerial in their home,  which they say 
is wrongly positioned in the loft and so doesnt  offer adequate reception.  This complaint has 
been rejected  by Amtrust, which says there is no requirement in the technical  manual to 
provide an aerial.
 
The current  position  is that remedial works are still in progress, with no clear end date in 
sight. There has been further damage caused  by various contractors during the works, much  
of which  Amtrust has now agreed  to put right. Mr B and Mr J, having  lived with building 
works for some time, were offered  alternative  accommodation in 2018. They  were  out of 
their home for more than three months, including over the Christmas  period,  but have now 
returned to building work still going  on around  them.
In my provisional decision dated  18 October 2019, I also explained,  in respect of the 
previous ombudsmans provisional decision, that: 
The provisional decision  dated 24 June 2019  went on to explain that all parties agreed that 
this decision will consider  only the events up to and including Amtrusts last final response 
letter of 4 December  2018. Mr B and Mr J have since made a separate complaint about 
Amtrusts actions beyond this date,  which were investigating separately  at this service.
Ref: DRN38096793The provisional decision explained that the ombudsman  was intending to uphold 
Mr B and Mr Js complaint and to direct Amtrust to:
Pay the professional  fees incurred by Mr Hs work on this claim from the beginning of his 
involvement up to and including 4 December  2018.
Pay Mr B and Mr J £2,500 for trouble and upset theyve experienced.
Review  the information it has about  the apex window, including  arranging a further 
inspection if necessary, and consider the claim under  the defects insurance period.
The ombudsman who issued this provisional decision is now away from our service  for an
extended period.  So the case  has been  passed  to me to decide.
Since the provisional decision  dated 24 June 2019:
Amtrust  has instructed  a technical survey  of the apex window, which went  ahead in 
July 2019. Following this, Amtrust  has said that it accepts there  is a defect. But it says its 
minor and that the disturbance caused by resetting the frame within  the existing brick 
aperture would  be disproportionate to the margin gains in reducing the gap between the 
side apertures.  So while  Amtrust  accepts that its necessary to apply external sealant to 
make the window watertight, it considers this to be the extent of its liability  it says it 
wouldnt be reasonable to carry out further works regarding the apex window and it has 
pointed to a particular part of the warranty that it says supports this.
Mr B and Mr H feel strongly that I should consider Amtrusts general conduct,  including 
since Cara Goodbodys second  provisional  decision dated 24 June 2019, when deciding 
compensation. Theyve also said that they believe  the apex window, comprising two 
windows stacked  on top of each other, doesnt  have a lintel.
My provisional decision of 18 October  2019 then went  on to explain to Mr B and Mr J and 
Amtrust why I was intending  to uphold Mr B and Mr Js complaint in part, and the direction  I 
was intending  to make. And I invited  the parties to provide further  comments, which theyve  
now done, before I made my final decision.
Amtrust has said it agrees  with my provisional  decision dated 18 October  2019 and that it 
has no further comments. 
Mr B and Mr J have  said that they will accept my provisional decision dated 18 October  2019  
albeit they still have remaining concerns which I have addressed below in my findings. 
All parties  have agreed that this decision will consider only events  up and to and including 
Amtrusts final response letter of 4 December 2018.  So I have largely only considered issues 
up until this point. There were some actions following  this  particularly in relation  to the 
misalignment of the apex window I have needed  to consider  to give a full and relevant 
determination of the complaint points raised  before the final response letter. And I have 
considered whether Amtrust caused any additional  trouble and upset in respect  of this 
complaint point. But, beyond that Mr B and Mr J have a separate  complaint about Amtrust 
following its final response. And those things are being dealt with separately  at this service.  
So, I wont be making a decision  on those other  points.
Ref: DRN38096794my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file. 
Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific  point, 
its not because  Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it, but because  I dont think  I 
need to comment  on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reached materially  the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision dated  
18 October 2019, and for the same  reasons. Ive explained my reasons again below, with 
further comment where appropriate, to address Mr B and Mr Js recent points.
the apex window
Amtrust instructed a technical survey, which I understand went ahead  in July 2019. I also 
understand that Amtrust  has reviewed  the information and the claim. And based on this, its 
told us that it accepts there is a defect here. 
But it says its minor.  And that the disturbance caused by resetting the frame  within  the 
existing brick  aperture would  be disproportionate to the margin gains in reducing the gap 
between the side apertures. Amtrust accepts that it needs to take some steps to remedy this 
problem. But it says it is only necessary to apply  external sealant to make  the window 
watertight. It considers  this to be the extent of its liability. It says it wouldnt be reasonable to 
carry out further works regarding the apex  window and it has pointed to a particular part of 
the warranty that it says supports this.
The warranty includes  the following clause:
9. REASONABLENESS
In the event of a valid claim under  the Policy the Underwriter shall only be responsible for 
costs and expenses  that a reasonable  person  would  incur if spending their own money.  
Whenever possible  if items  can be found  to match existing items  at a reasonable cost the 
Underwriter will endeavour to facilitate this. However the Underwriter  will have no liability 
and will not be responsible for any additional costs if a similar match  is not possible at a 
reasonable cost.
Its clear the issues with the property have affected  Mr B and Mr J greatly, and I sympathise 
with what theyve been through. But in terms of the cover the warranty provides, this term 
means Amtrusts liability is limited to what a reasonable person would do to remedy  the 
problem. So Ive needed to consider whether its likely a reasonable person would pay the 
costs and expenses  of re-aligning the window.
Having done so, Im not persuaded a reasonable person  likely  would pay the costs and 
expenses of re-aligning the window to remedy the issue. I said in my provisional decision 
dated 18 October 2019 that I found  the surveyors report  completed  in July 2019  persuasive 
on this point. Im aware that Mr B and Mr J said in response that had Amtrust given them the 
chance to respond  to this report then they would have  done  so rigorously. The report  has 
been shared with Mr B and Mr J though. Theyve  been given the chance  to comment  on it. 
And nothing  Ive seen  leads  me to change  my mind  that I still find the July 2019 report  
persuasive on this point. 
Ref: DRN38096795The report  agrees that the window frame is out of square in the brickwork opening, and that 
this is inconsistent with the functional requirements  of chapter 7 of the technical  manual. It 
explains this is probably a defect under the defects insurance period.
But the report also states that this isnt affecting the performance of the frame. And that it 
would be impossible to achieve a perfectly square frame inside a preformed brickwork 
opening. Substantial work  would be needed. The surveyor has said it would need to remove  
the existing frame and reinstall  it, but there would probably still be a problem with the visual 
distortion of the brickwork.  And it would probably be necessary to take down the whole bay 
and rebuild it too if the expectation is zero tolerance  in equal gaps between the brickwork 
and the timber jambs.
There is also another surveyors report from last year,  dated  July 2018, which suggests its 
unwise to attempt  to rebuild the brickwork;  but that the approach should be to bring the 
window frame on the right hand side forward to more closely resemble that of the left hand 
side. But from what Ive read in the most  recent engineers report, I think  this would be 
substantial work also, which could, as I understand the report  of July 2019, simply move the 
visual distortion from the outside to the inside.
Nothing in this July 2018 report leads me to doubt the more recent report of July 2019. I 
think it credibly explains that the disturbance  caused  by the above suggestion  resetting the 
frame within  the existing brick aperture  would be disproportionate to the gains in reducing  
the gap between the side apertures. So I dont think a reasonable person would go to this 
depth of work, which would be very disruptive, to resolve something that isnt causing  a 
problem with the performance of the property.  Given this, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Amtrust  to rely on the policy wording and to say it wont  do anything  more 
here, beyond applying the external sealant  to the appropriate  parts of the window  as 
Amtrust has agreed to.
Im aware Mr B and Mr J have recently  raised a question of whether the apex window, 
comprising two windows  stacked on top of each other, has a lintel. And in response to my 
provisional decision dated 18 October 2019 theyve said there is no lintel between  the 
stacked front window  frames (of the apex window) as supported,  they say, by evidence of an 
identical house where investigations have  taken place and shown the property doesnt have 
a lintel. Theyve also said that they understand from neighbours that surveys have been 
conducted by Amtrust  and the manufacturer confirming a totally defective installation.  
I understand Mr B and Mr J have  said they reserve the right to pursue this in due course if 
necessary. But I have reached  the same conclusion  on this point as explained in my 
provisional decision. Ive not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the window 
doesnt have a lintel. But if Mr B and Mr J can provide  evidence  this is the case, then they 
should provide  it to Amtrust to consider.
On the remaining issues, Ive reached  the same conclusions, and for materially  the same 
reasons as previously  explained. 
television aerial
The building warranty only responds  to issues that are considered defects under the 
technical manual.  And as theres no requirement in the manual to provide  a television aerial, 
I cant say that incorrect positioning is a defect.  So Im not directing Amtrust  to take any 
further action  in relation to the aerial.
Ref: DRN38096796Mr Hs fees
Its my understanding that Mr B and Mr J and Amtrust have agreed Mr Hs fees at £641.25. 
So I havent needed to consider this any further.
trouble and upset
In terms of the distress  and inconvenience Amtrust has caused, its a natural consequence  
of building  claims that homeowners will need to make themselves available for site visits, 
provide keys to contractors, and so on. But Amtrust  hasnt dealt with the claim as efficiently 
or as well as Id expect.  This has resulted in greater impact on Mr B and Mr J than would 
usually be expected. And Im still satisfied, as I explained in my provisional decision, that 
Amtrust should pay Mr B and Mr J £2,500 for the considerable amount of distress  and 
inconvenience its caused them. 
I understand that Mr B and Mr J have said this doesnt cover their direct financial losses,  lost 
working days and the overall distress caused by the claim,  and I have considered this. But 
claims of this nature will always involve some disruption and stress.  
Mr B and Mr J have  also invited me to consider Amtrusts general  conduct, including since 
the complaint  was referred to this service, and also that the apex window frame has 
remained unsealed to the brickwork for, they say, approximately 12 months and still is now.  
However, the parties have been  in dispute about the correct remedy  for some time.  So Im 
not surprised the issue still remains unresolved. And whilst the complaint was at this service 
it was agreed Amtrust  would complete  a further inspection, and the findings would be 
provided to this service  to consider.  
Amtrust arranged the suggested inspection of the apex  window for July 2019 and reviewed 
its position on this. It then provided the report for this service to consider, as was agreed with 
all parties. Im satisfied that once  it was agreed an additional inspection would take place, 
Amtrust took action  to complete  this, and provided  it to us promptly. So, Im satisfied it acted 
reasonably here. It also agreed to pay the suggested compensation, and professional fees. 
Amtrust and Mr B and Mr J could have  settled the compensation and professional  fees in 
July 2019, but because  the matter of the apex window remained in dispute, full settlement 
wasnt agreed. I dont  think  it was unreasonable for Amtrust, in these circumstances, to await  
the final decision on this complaint before completing settlement. So whilst there is no doubt 
Amtrust has mishandled the claim from Mr B and Mr J  as Ive explained above  I dont 
think it would  be fair for me to say Amtrust  has acted unreasonably whilst carrying out and 
providing the independent inspection. So Im not persuaded this means  an award  greater 
than £2,500 is warranted here. 
Ref: DRN38096797my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr B and Mr Js complaint in part and I direct 
Amtrust Europe Limited to:
Pay Mr B and Mr J £641.25 to reflect the fees incurred by Mr Hs work  on this claim from 
the beginning  of his involvement up to and including  4 December 2018.
Pay Mr B and Mr J £2,500 for distress and inconvenience.
Apply a new suitable external sealant  to repair the window, if it has not done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809679