K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited  has declined  his claim for damage to 
his carport, as it says it was due to wear and tear rather  than the weather experienced at the 
time.
background
Mr S has said that on a day in the middle of December 2017 there was a squall, which  
involved strong winds and heavy sleet, causing thick ice to form on the roof of his carport.  
This caused part of the carport to fall to the ground. This then damaged an external light and 
the guttering on the bungalow. He made  a claim to CIS.
CIS called up a weather report for Mr S home for the week the damage  occurred. This 
showed the weather the day before Mr S reported  the damage, which  is when he thought  it 
had occurred, involved only moderate  winds of 21 mph. 
CIS sent out a loss adjuster to assess the damage  to Mr S carport. Several photographs of 
the damage were  taken.  The assessor  concluded the wood, which  the frame of the carport  
was made  of, had rotted. That, along with the effect of the ivy, both its growth and weight, 
had caused the collapse. The claim was declined.
Mr S didnt accept CISs decision. He said the collapse  of the carport  roof was not caused by 
ivy growth. He stated he considered the deterioration of a small part of the timber was minor 
 the remainder of the structure was in excellent condition and remained intact and 
unaffected by the ivy. He reiterated  his belief that the damage  was caused by heavy sleet,  
thick ice and strong  winds, not by normal wear and tear. 
CIS didnt  change its decision. It reiterated that there  hadnt  been a storm around  the time 
Mr S believed the damage to have occurred. It said it considered  the underlying cause of the 
damage was general deterioration over time and a lack of effective maintenance, which was 
excluded under the policy terms. In relation to the guttering it considered  this had bowed 
over time and the electrical light had been  damaged when the roof and attached ivy had 
fallen. It didnt consider  any of the damage  was consistent with what would be expected  to 
be caused by a storm.
Mr S didnt accept that there hadnt  been  a storm and referred  his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and she concluded there hadnt been  a 
storm at the time the damage had occurred. As such, there was no cover available under the 
policy and CIS hadnt acted inappropriately when it declined the claim.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators view. He responded explaining the letters  from CIS had 
been riddled with errors (he enclosed copies of his previous letters explaining the errors). He 
reiterated that a squall had occurred on the date of the damage. He also pointed out these 
can be isolated and occur outside of normal weather  patterns. As agreement couldnt  be 
reached, the complaint  was passed to me to consider.
I issued my provisional decision on 11 April 2019,  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
When a claim  is made for storm damage, the first thing  we will consider is if the weather 
conditions were extreme enough to be considered a storm. Whilst bad weather including 
Ref: DRN32366462high winds  is not uncommon in this country, winds of storm force  are unusual. In addition,  
even where storm does exist, the wind speeds  will vary around  it  so at the edge  of the 
weather event, the winds may not be high enough  to be considered a storm.
The reason  it is important whether the winds are considered high enough  to be a storm is 
because it determines  whether the wind, on its own, is capable of causing damage to a 
structurally sound building. Lower wind speeds  can cause damage, but that will usually be 
because there is a weakness or vulnerability in the building that the high winds highlight. 
The weather  records for when Mr S says the damage happened  to his carport  dont support 
there being a storm at the time. Without  independent evidence showing that there were 
storm conditions at the time of the damage,  I cant say that CIS was wrong to decline  the 
claim for storm  damage.
I have noted Mr S comments about  a squall happening locally and that this might not show 
up on more general  weather  records. I accept that might be the case. However, even if I 
were to accept that there were storm conditions at the time of the damage to Mr S property,  
I wouldnt be telling CIS to pay the claim for damage  to the carport  roof. To do so I would 
need to be persuaded that the storm was the dominant cause of the damage.  Having looked  
at the remains  of the timber frame for the part of the carport  that collapsed  there  is clear  
evidence that the frame  had deteriorated and to some  significant  degree in places. In such  
circumstances, where  winds cause damage because  of existing problems with a structure,  
we wouldnt consider the winds to be the dominant  cause  of the damage.
In relation to the lighting and the guttering Mr S has highlighted as being  damaged,  I think  
the evidence indicates that these items were damaged by the partial collapse of the carport 
roof. As the collapse wasnt caused  by an insured  peril, any damaged caused by its collapse 
also wouldnt  usually be covered by the policy. The only possibility of it being covered would 
be if the policy included  accidental damage to buildings cover and the events  fell within  that 
cover. 
Having reviewed Mr S policy it does include accidental damage  to buildings  cover. It is 
unfortunate that CIS didnt  highlight  this to Mr S at the time it declined his claim. As such, 
Mr S may have a valid claim  for the guttering and the broken light should  he want  CIS to 
consider it. I have said CIS is to consider such a claim if Mr S wants  it to, as I cant  make  a 
policyholder make a second claim.  In addition, given the relatively small amount of damage,  
Mr S may wish look into the costs of doing so and compare them with any benefit  he might  
receive.
Mr S didnt accept my conclusions. He repeated  that if it hadnt  been for a squall  with heavy 
ice and sleet the carport structure would  not have been damaged.  He reiterated that the 
letters from CIS were riddled with errors and asked whether  these fundamental mistakes  
were to be swept aside.  Mr S also commented there was only minor rot to the frame  of the 
carport. Given these  mistakes,  he considers  CIS stance as a whole is flawed and hoped my 
decision would be revised and the claim allowed as a whole,  in accordance  with fairness. He 
said he had been  caused considerable upset by CIS not dealing with the claim properly.
CIS told us it had no comment to make  in response  to the provisional  decision. 
Ref: DRN32366463my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has pointed  out CIS letters were riddled with errors and how he thinks this should 
affect the outcome of the claim.  I can understand Mr S point of view,  but I was aware of all 
of the issues he had with what CIS had said and its conclusions when I considered  the 
complaint before issuing my provisional decision.  The fact a business has made an error 
doesnt mean a claim should be accepted. 
The core point of CIS reason to decline the claim was twofold. These  reasons  firstly  being  
the weather reports  didnt  support Mr S recollections and secondly  because the fabric of the 
carport had deteriorated,  making it susceptible to weather damage. I accepted CIS was right 
on these points and as such,  its declinature of the storm claim wasnt  unreasonable. Whilst I 
have considered Mr S further comments, they havent changed my conclusions  about this 
matter.
I remain satisfied that Mr S may have a valid claim for the guttering  and broken light under 
the accidental  damage cover  on the policy. If he wishes to pursue this claim, he should 
contact CIS to arrange for it to be looked into.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint. If Mr S wishes to pursue an 
accidental damage  claim,  he should  let CIS know and it should consider the claim 
accordingly. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3236646