K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out on the phone  in 2010 when Mrs M 
called to activate  her credit card. The policy gave Mrs M accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint,  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she didnt  know  she was being charged for PPI. But I think Tesco  made 
Mrs M aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. I say this after listening 
to the call recording of the sale. Mrs M asked  for information on the policy. The 
adviser told Mrs M PPI was an optional service,  checked her eligibility, and told her 
how the policy worked and what it cost.  The adviser  then checked  if Mrs M wanted to 
add the cover to her account and Mrs M agreed  she did.   
Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt need to check  if it was suitable 
for her. This means  it was up to Mrs M to decide whether the policy  was right for her 
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit  card repayments if she was unable to 
work or lost her job. 
Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mrs M chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover.  She wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations. 
And the PPI was competitively priced and was apparently affordable.  
She wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 
months for all successful accident and sickness claims. Mrs M had £750 in savings 
but the PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover other living expenses whilst 
not working, or to keep them intact. She said family would have helped  but thats  not 
suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can 
change. She also told us she could have sold her car but the PPI would have 
prevented her from having to take such an extreme measure at an already difficult 
time. 
Overall, based on her circumstances and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely 
Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better  information had been provided. I 
think she would still have  taken out the policy.
This means  Tesco doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN30185212But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  Tesco  didnt tell Mrs M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs M any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs M the difference between  
what Mrs M owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs M 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off their credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3018521