K821x#15complaint
The complainant is a trust (the Trust). The Trust is represented by its Lead Trustee (who is 
also a beneficiary  of the Trust). Its complaint is about Halifax  Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) 
and it mainly relates to the following:
Its trust based share  dealing/investment account which  was transferred to HSDLs  
administration in 2006 (account 1).
A separate but similar  account administered by HSDL  from 2009 (account 2). 
Account 1 was subsequently transferred into account 2.
A separate Barclays  Stockbrokers portfolio  (the Barclays account), belonging to the 
Trust, which was also transferred into account 2 (in 2017).
The complaint is mainly about account  2 (the Trust account);  it is that HSDL  wrongly  
changed its name and status  from the Trusts name and a trust based  status  to the 
Trustees individual names  and a jointly personal  status  in July 2018; and that it unjustly 
imposed dealing and withdrawal restrictions upon it. HSDL says it does not offer a trust 
based account service  and the restrictions are needed to ensure  the Trustees cannot deal in 
and withdraw from the account as a trust.
background
On 16 January 2020 I issued a detailed provisional decision (PD) to address the complaint. 
I said it was required in order to update  the investigators previous findings. A copy of the PD 
is attached below, so I will not repeat its contents.  Both parties were invited to submit 
comments and/or evidence in response  to the PD. HSDL does not appear to have 
responded but the Lead Trustee submitted comments and evidence. She mainly addressed 
the following:
Submissions and evidence to support  the merits of the complaint  including  an 
update on recent correspondence from HSDL. [comment 1]
The argument that HSDLs ability to unilaterally change the status of the Trust 
account ought to be matched by an ability to return it to its original status in order to 
aid a transfer-out of the account.  [comment 2]
Submissions about Contingent Value Rights (CVRs) related to a particular holding 
and about a lack of notice, from HSDL, in this respect. [comment 3]
Submissions about the PDs findings  on redress, featuring the following  
oReasoning behind  the claim for personal  compensation   for the Lead Trustee  
in relation to trouble and upset  the matter has caused her. 
oAgreement with the PDs  explanation of redress and presentation of information 
about transferring  the Trusts invested  assets to its chosen  new account provider.
oComment that there is some uncertainty  about any legal issues that might arise in 
the context of transferring the jointly personal  account from HSDL into a newly 
created trust based account with the new account  provider; and that, in this 
respect, reinstatement  of the original trust name in the Trust account  could  help.
oComment that the benchmark  used  for calculating redress for the invested assets 
is based on an even  mix of equities  and bonds, but the invested  assets  are 
Ref: DRN33813032entirely in equities.  Within  and beyond this context, the bonds element of the 
proposed benchmark is unclear.
oComment that HSDLs ex gratia payment for the 2019 Witan Investment Trust 
corporate action  matter  which HSDL concedes  has not been made; and that 
the Trust has been deprived  the use of (and interest on) its frozen cash assets.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including the submissions 
from the Lead Trustee in response  to the PD  to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I retain the conclusion on merits expressed 
in the PD. In the main, I do the same with regards to the PDs findings on redress.  
I address the Lead Trustees comments as follows:
As reflected in the PD, HSDL did not appear  to dispute the body of evidence the 
investigator referred to in upholding  of the complaints  merits. It also does not appear 
to have commented on the PD in this (or any) respect, which  suggests the same. I 
retain, and incorporate into this decision, the PDs findings on merits and conclude 
that the complaint is upheld. In this context, and whilst I appreciate  the points made 
and information  given under comment 1, I consider that the matter of merits has been 
concluded, in favour  of the Trust.
I understand the point made  under comment 2, but I retain the following finding  from 
the PD  
 the reality of the present circumstances is that HSDL cannot reinstall the Trust 
into a trust based account because it does not provide that service.  It cannot be 
forced to provide  a service that does not exist at present  even if it previously 
existed.
With regards to the invested assets in the Trust account, it appears that the Trustees 
will need  to establish  a new trust based investment account elsewhere,  into which 
the assets can be transferred. It does not appear  possible  to transfer them  from 
HSDL with a trust based status, so the Trustees will have to establish such an 
account (elsewhere)  afresh.  
The matter about the CVRs in comment 3 appears to be new to the present 
complaint and the Lead Trustee  says a complaint  has been presented to HSDL  about 
it. I consider the matter beyond the remit of this complaint and of this decision.
 I address the comments  on redress as follows  
oThe Lead Trustee has competently pursued  and managed the complaint and the 
different issues within it. The PDs  finding on personal compensation for the 
trouble and upset  the matter has caused  her was not intended to be dismissive of 
this. However, the complaint was made and pursued in the name of the Trust. I 
note that part of the complaints submissions referred to the Lead Trustees 
personal claim, but that did/does not alter the Trusts status as the complainant in 
this matter. It was in this context  that the PDs  finding, on her personal  claim, was 
made and it is in the same context that I retain  that finding. However if, in the 
Ref: DRN33813033spirit of goodwill, HSDL considers that it will pay the Lead Trustee the £700 
previously proposed by the investigator, it is invited to do so.
oI welcome the information  provided by the Lead  Trustee with regards to 
transferring the Trusts invested assets to the new account provider. As instructed 
in the PD, I expect  that the same information has been shared with HSDL.  I 
understand her point  about uncertainty over any legal  issues that might arise  in 
the course of the transfer. I consider  that the PDs provisions for redress  in 
relation to the transfer, and as reflected in the orders below, is sufficient to cater 
for any reasonable costs arising from any such relevant legal issues. The 
provisions aim to ensure that HSDL is responsible for  The total cost related to 
the complete exercise  up to and including  the complete establishment  of a 
trust based account for the Trust with a new chosen provider  [my emphasis]
oHSDL will be ordered, below, to reinstate the original trust name in the Trust 
account if it has not already done so, given that it previously offered to do this.
oHSDL will also be ordered to conclude  the ex gratia settlement with regards to 
the 2019 Witan Investment Trust corporate  action  issue.
oThe benchmark used  below, for redress related to the invested  assets,  has been 
adjusted to reflect  more closely  the nature  of the invested assets. In addition,  
I have also provided additional  explanation of how redress for the Trusts cash 
assets should be concluded.
what must  HSDL  do?
I order HSDL  to do the following:
Reinstate the original trust name  in the Trust account, if this has not already been 
done, within seven  days of being notified of the Trusts acceptance of this decision.
Undertake and meet  all costs  (including  reasonable legal costs  and costs related to 
any and all relevant  regulatory requirements (including the LEI requirement)) 
associated with everything the Trust/the  Trustees/the Lead Trustee must do to 
initiate, process and complete the transfer of the invested assets from the Trust 
account to a new account with the new provider, in order to establish a new trust 
based account with the new provider. The Trust should share information about all 
such costs with HSDL. In addition, I order HSDL  to waive any of its fees or charges 
related to the exercise and to cooperate meaningfully with the Trust/the Trustees/the 
Lead Trustee in the exercise.
Conclude the settlement  of the 2019  Witan Investment Trust corporate action issue, 
based on its ex gratia  payment offer, within seven days of being notified of the Trusts 
acceptance of this decision.
Remit the cash balance in the Trust account to the Trust accounts  nominated  bank 
account within seven  days of being notified of the Trusts acceptance of this decision. 
HSDL is ordered to lift the restriction in this respect and to pay interest on the cash  
balance, at the rate applied within the nominated  bank  account, starting from when it 
first declined  remittance to the nominated  bank  account and ending on the date of 
the remittance  I have ordered. I understand the Trusts argument  for lost 
opportunities in relation to this cash holding. However, on balance,  I do not consider 
it sufficiently established, but I accept a claim to any interest  that would have been 
earned in the nominated bank account had the remittance  not been  delayed.
Ref: DRN33813034In terms of the restriction on trading in the Trust account, from July 2018  to date, I do 
not consider it possible to say precisely  what the Trust  would  have traded, but for the 
restriction. In the alternative, a basis for fair compensation is to compare 
performance of the investments in the Trust account during the restriction period with 
a suitable performance benchmark. I order HSDL to use this basis  and to use the 
single benchmark  provided below which, I consider, reflects  as closely as possible 
the Trusts equities investments. I also retain  the reasoning, explained  in the PD, 
behind the end date stated below.
oI order HSDL  to compare the performance of the Trust accounts investments 
with that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference  between the fair 
value (what the investments would have been worth  at the end date had they 
produced a return using the benchmark) and the actual value (the actual value of 
the investments  at the end date). If the fair value is greater than the actual value 
compensation will be payable, otherwise  no compensation is payable.  
oI order HSDL  to pay interest as provided below. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded. 
investment Benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional  interest
Investments 
in the Trust 
accountthe FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index  
(prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  
Income  Total Return 
Index)17 July 
2018 (when  
the 
restrictions  
began)date of 
this 
decision8% simple per year from the date 
of this decision  to the date of 
settlement (if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of HSDL 
being  notified of the Trusts 
acceptance of this decision)
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in the PD, I uphold the Trusts complaint and I order 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited to compensate the Trust and provide redress  as detailed 
above. Halifax Share  Dealing  Limited  must also provide the Trust with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask the Trust to accept or reject  my decision before  5 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
The Trust  is represented by its Lead Trustee (who  is also a beneficiary of the Trust). Its complaint 
about Halifax Share Dealing  Limited (HSDL) mainly  relates to the following:
Its trust based share dealing/investment account which was transferred to HSDLs 
administration in 2006 (account 1).
A separate but similar account administered by HSDL from 2009 (account  2). Account 1 was 
subsequently transferred into account 2.
A separate Barclays Stockbrokers portfolio (the Barclays account), belonging to the Trust, 
which was also transferred into account 2 (in 2017).
Ref: DRN33813035The Lead Trustee  says, in the main,  that HSDL wrongly  changed the name and status of account  2  
from the Trusts name and a trust based  status  to the Trustees  individual names and a jointly 
personal status  in July 2018 and unjustly  imposed dealing and withdrawal restrictions on the 
account from then. In the main, HSDL says the changes are necessary  because it does not offer a 
service for trust based accounts and that the restrictions are also necessary to ensure that the 
Trustees cannot deal in and withdraw from the account as a trust  given that it cannot provide 
account services for trusts.
background
The complaint is mainly about account 2, which I shall also refer to as the Trust account.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  She made  
the following main findings:
There is evidence that the Trust account was in a trust based investment account  prior to 
being transferred  to HSDL  in 2009.
There is evidence from 2009 which  shows HSDL  was aware that the Trust  account 
transferred to and accepted  by it in that year was a trust based  account.
A problem  with the status of the Trust account arose in 2016 and in the course  of HSDL 
addressing the problem it wrote to the Lead Trustee (in October that year) and affirmed that 
the Trust account was a trust based account  for which it arranged for all of the Trustees to 
complete, sign and return a non-personal  Customer Application Form (CAF) along with the 
Trust Deed  in order  to administer the account for the Trust. It could  not explain  how the 
problem had arisen between 2009 and 2016 but undertook responsibility  for the matter  from 
then onwards.
There is evidence of the Lead  Trustees  correspondence  with HSDL in August 2017 with 
regards to the transfer of the Barclays account into the Trust account and in which she 
referred to the latter as a trust based account; evidence of the transfer form which repeated 
the same and featured signatures from all of the Trustees; and evidence from Barclays 
confirming that it completed the transfer to HSDL as a transfer of a trust based account.
Overall, evidence  supports the conclusion that until July 2018 HSDL administered  the Trust  
account as a trust based account, led the Trustees to believe it could  and was providing  that 
service and accepted transfers into the account on this basis. Its actions in July 2018  
were/are unfair and the Trust is due redress to cater for the results  of those  actions.  In 
addition, the Lead Trustee should receive  an award  too.
Both parties submitted comments about the investigators  view and with regards to:
The complaints facts.
Redress for the complaint.
The complaints facts
The Lead Trustee  says clarification of the following is required:
With regards to the claim about restriction of the Trust account, by HSDL,  the Trustees 
participated in the two corporate actions  mentioned  in the view.  However,  a complaint issue  
remains in terms of the Lead Trustees inability to reinvest cash that resulted from the 
corporate actions due to the restriction  upon the Trust account. From  July to December 2018  
she could neither  buy nor sell in the account and in December 2018 she was restricted to 
selling only. Another  issue is that the Trust was prevented, in 2019, from acting on the 
corporate action of the Witan  Investment  Trust (which HSDL concedes  and for which  it has 
offered an ex gratia payment).
HSDL has not provided the Trust with Legal Entity Identifier (LEI) for the Trust  account  but 
this is not the complaint. The Trustees are responsible  for obtaining the LEI. The complaint  is 
that the provider of the Trust account (that is, HSDL)  must register the LEI on the account and 
Ref: DRN33813036the account has to be set up as a trust based account.  HSDL is refusing to do both and 
without a trust based account an LEI will not be issued to the Trustees.
The Lead  Trustees  complaint in 2016 was about  HSDL incorrectly  addressing documents 
related to her account  and the Trust account,  and about the status of the Trust account.
With regards to the restriction on the Trust account,  HSDL cannot reasonably question  the 
bank account nominated  for the Trust account. It and/or its parent company  had details  of the 
nominated bank account  since 2006  and it had those details since the transfer of the Trust  
account to HSDL in 2009.  Dividend  income  from the Trust account  has been paid to the 
nominated bank account  since then.
The Lead  Trustee  does  not say she is unable to open a new Trust  account  elsewhere  
because of trust size and LEI requirements  arising from the Markets in Financial  Instruments 
Directive II (MiFID  II). She is unaware of any such trust size requirements  and the matter 
about the LEI is as she has explained.
HSDL gave the same  clarification about the LEI matter as summarised  above.
Redress for the complaint
The investigators  view proposed the following redress:
HSDLs removal  of the restrictions on the Trust account, HSDLs commitment to assist  the 
Trust/the Lead Trustee to acquire  LEI status  for the Trust account and HSDLs commitment to 
assist the Lead Trustee to transfer out the Trust account (with a waiver of any associated  
transfer costs within HSDL, with responsibility to pay any transfer  costs beyond HSDL  and 
with responsibility to pay any costs associated  with ensuring that the account is a trust based 
account).
HSDLs engagement with the Lead Trustee for the purpose of calculating  any financial loss 
caused to the Trust as a result  of the upheld  complaint  mainly  compensation  for the 
Trust/Trustees inability to trade,  react to corporate actions and/or use funds  in the Trust  
account because of the restrictions on the account.
HSDLs payment of £700 to the Lead Trustee for the personal impact upon her beneficial 
interest in the Trust  caused  by its restrictions on the Trust account.
HSDL says the following  cannot reasonably be ignored:
It cannot remove the restrictions on the Trust account because  the account presently  has a 
personal status (in the personal and joint names of the Trustees)  and it does not have LEI 
status. Removing the restrictions potentially  allows the Trustees to trade in the account in a 
non-personal capacity  (that is, as a trust)  without an LEI and that would  breach transaction  
reporting.
It does  not offer a service to trust accounts so trust status will not be achievable within its 
service. If it helps, the title of the Trust account could  be changed  to reflect  the name of the 
trust but the account cannot be changed  into a trust based account  because  it does not offer 
such a service.
The Lead Trustees  main  comments  on the proposed redress are:
£700  is insufficient compensation  for the impact of the restrictions upon her beneficial interest 
in the Trust  account,  but she accepts it in order to draw a line under the matter.
She is concerned  about how certain (or otherwise)  execution  of the proposed compensation  
for financial  loss will be, if left to negotiations between the parties. She is also concerned 
about resolving  the transfer of cash (a mix of income for her and capital for the Trust) 
accumulated in the Trust account   it is essential that the cash  is transferred to the nominated 
bank account (for the Trust account) which HSDL has used since  2006 and 2009 but 
presently disputes.
Ref: DRN33813037my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
For the reasons  given  by the investigator,  I provisionally  conclude that the complaint has merit  and is 
upheld. HSDL  does not appear to have presented  a meaningful challenge against the investigators 
findings on merit and the implication appears to be that it does not dispute the evidence she referred 
to in this respect. 
I have reviewed said evidence and they create substantial support for the conclusions that  HSDL  
administered the Trust account as a trust based account (including transfers into, dealings within and 
withdrawals from it) from 2009 to July 2018; it provided  a trust based service  throughout that period; it 
remains arguably unclear  why it seemingly suddenly  decided,  in July 2018, that it could no longer 
provide that service despite having done so previously, despite having affirmed  the service less than 
two years earlier in October 2016 and again less than a year earlier around August 2017;  its decision 
in July 2018 and the restrictions it imposed from then to date are unfair  in the circumstances  of the 
case and the Trust is entitled to redress on this basis.
My provisional  findings on Redress
The complaint appears to be in the name of the Trust,  not the Lead Trustee.  Any 
compensation arising from it should relate to the Trust only. I agree  with the suggestion  that 
any detriment caused by the restrictions and to benefits  arising from the Trust  should  be 
compensated for, but any such compensation should be done  in the context of the Trust.  I 
consider it beyond my fair and reasonable remit to award  personal compensation in a trust 
based complaint.
The primary  task appears  to be resolution of the Trust account.  As the investigator found, 
HSDL is responsible for wrongfully leaving  this account in a personal status at present having 
previously treated it as a trust based account  and having had previous opportunities   which  it 
did not use  to clarify that it could not (or could no longer)  continue to do so. 
Nevertheless, the reality  of the present circumstances is that HSDL  cannot  reinstall the Trust  
into a trust based account because it does not provide that service. It cannot  be forced to 
provide a service that does  not exist at present  even  if it previously existed.  Evidence from 
the complaint file shows that the parties have agreed to return  the Trust accounts  title back  to 
the original Trust name. That is welcomed  but it does not resolve the objective of the 
complaint  that is, to reinstate a trust based account in order  to transfer it, as a trust based 
account, elsewhere.
An alternative resolution  appears to be necessary. One that does not involve  reinstatement of 
a trust based  account within  HSDL  because that is not possible. 
The Trustees,  on behalf of the Trust, are entitled to have the Trust  account they transferred to 
HSDL in 2009  and that was in operation from then until the problems that arose in 2018.  
They, on behalf of the Trust, are also entitled to remittance of cash  belonging to the Trust (in 
the HSDL account)  to the nominated  bank  account.
Addressing the cash matter first, my Order will be that HSDL remits  the cash  balance  within 
the Trust account to the nominated bank account as described by the Lead Trustee and, as 
evidence supports, as HSDL has used for remittances from the Trust account since 2009. 
HSDL will be ordered to lift the restriction in this respect and to make this remittance without 
undue delay.
With regards to the invested assets in the Trust account, it appears that the Trustees will 
need to establish a new trust based investment account  elsewhere, into which the assets can 
be transferred. It does not appear possible to transfer them  from HSDL with a trust based 
status, so the Trustees  will have to establish such an account  (elsewhere) afresh. My Order  
will be that the Trustees  obtain detailed information/documentation from their chosen provider 
about everything that needs to be done and all costs associated  with everything that needs to 
be done  to initiate, process and complete a transfer of the invested assets to a new account 
with the chosen provider and to establish  a new trust based account  with the chosen  provider. 
Ref: DRN33813038For the sake of clarity, this information must include  any and all regulatory requirements  
(including the LEI requirement) for this purpose(s) and must include the costings for 
compliance with such requirements. This body of information should be shared with HSDL  
and this service before the deadline above in order for it to be reflected within the final 
decision. The total cost related to the complete exercise described above  up to and 
including the complete establishment of a trust based  account  for the Trust  with a new chosen 
provider  is the first basis for financial compensation to be paid by HSDL to the Trust. In 
addition, my Order will be that HSDL waives any fees or charges at its end related  to the 
exercise and that it cooperates meaningfully with the Trust  in the overall process described 
above.
If the Trustees assert that the above alternative is not feasible they must give a meaningful 
explanation why and details of another alternative  other than transferring a trust based 
account from HSDL  to a new provider (which does not appear possible)  for this service to 
consider. Unless both change  my mind, the above alternative  is likely to be reflected in the 
final decision.
The next basis for financial compensation relates to the restriction on trading within the 
account from July 2018 to date,  and to the missed opportunity to participate in corporate 
actions. The investigator also referred to restrictions on withdrawals in this respect,  but I 
consider that the intended Order stated above about remitting cash from the account 
addresses that. In terms of the missed opportunity to participate in corporate actions,  this is 
limited to the event in 2019 that the Lead  Trustee has confirmed. I consider that HSDL has 
addressed this matter sufficiently with its concession  and ex gratia offer. The Lead Trustee 
has highlighted the inability to reinvest money from some of the relevant  corporate actions, 
but I consider that relates to the restriction on trading within the account which  I address 
directly below.
In terms of redressing the restriction on trading  in the Trust account,  I do not consider it 
possible to say precisely what  the Trust would have traded, but for the restriction.  In the 
alternative a fair basis for compensation  is to compare performance of the investments in the 
Trust account during  the restriction  period with a suitable performance benchmark. This 
comparison of performance would  also fairly capture  reinvestment  and reinvestment 
performance.
I intend  to Order  HSDL to compare  the performance of the Trust accounts investments  with 
that of the benchmark  shown below and pay the difference between the fair value (what the 
investments would have been worth at the end date had they produced a return using the 
benchmark) and the actual value (the actual  value  of the investments at the end date) of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  for financial loss 
is payable. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded. I have  used a benchmark 
based on a balanced investment profile, which is commonly the profile used for trust based 
investments. I have set the end date as the date of the final decision.  The Trustees might  be 
concerned by this, as it appears  that the restriction on their trading  is likely to continue beyond 
the final decision and until the Trust account is transferred out. However, without knowing 
when such a transfer  will be completed I consider it broadly reasonable to provide  for a 
definitive end point for the calculation  of redress in this respect.
investment benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Investments 
in the Trust 
accountfor half of the 
investment, the Bank 
of England  average 
return from fixed rate 
bonds and for the 
other half, the FTSE 
UK Private Investors 
Income total return  
index (prior  to 1 
March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock 17 July 2018 
(when the 
restrictions 
began)date of 
the final 
decision8% simple per year from the 
date of the decision to the 
date of settlement (if 
compensation  is not paid 
within 28 days of HSDL  
being notified of the Trusts 
acceptance)
Ref: DRN33813039Market Income Total  
Return Index)
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3381303