K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint because Santander recommended the 
policy to Mr and Mrs M but I dont think it was right for them.  Mrs M was on a fixed  term 
contract and the policy included  conditions  which made it harder for people on this sort of 
contract to claim unemployment benefit. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had made clear it wasnt 
right for them. So, I think Mr and Mrs M has lost out because of what Santander did wrong. 
Ive taken into account Santanders comments,  including what  it said about how this 
wouldve been covered during the sale and the recommendation  only made if it was suitable. 
Santander hasnt  provided any evidence that shows the sales process or what  was 
discussed during  this specific  sale.  So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is and 8% a year from then on. 
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN34718392my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019. 
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3471839