K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited  (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store account in 2002.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100  Mrs S owed on her store card.  The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs S couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also provided life 
cover as well as price and purchase  protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs S that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs S says she cant  recall any discussion about  PPI.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed at the time of the sale and I can 
see that there is a section  to apply for Account  Cover  the name  used by FICL for PPI. In 
this section it says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover. 
Mrs S has signed the section to confirm she wanted  the cover. If Mrs S didnt  want to take 
out the PPI she could  have left this section  blank. And Mrs S has signed the overall  
application form which suggests it reflected what she wanted. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mrs S chose  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs S and, as I havent seen anything to 
make me think otherwise, I think thats  likely  to be right. So it didnt have  to check if the policy  
was right for her. But FICL  did need to make  sure it gave Mrs S clear  enough information 
about the policy to enable  her to decide for herself  if she should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL  gave  Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But even if FICL had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would  have taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs S 
Ref: DRN38835412was eligible for the policy and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  a medical condition of which she was already aware.
Mrs S has told us she was self-employed and therefore the policy shouldnt have been 
sold to her. Ive looked  at the policy and the terms say that, if you are self- employed, in 
order to make a claim for unemployment your business must;
    have stopped  trading  and/or be in the process of being wound  up; or
    be put into the hands  of an insolvency practitioner; or
    be a partnership which has been  or is in the process of being dissolved.
Based on these terms listed above, I dont think it would have been difficult for Mrs S to 
make a claim as a self-employed person  she just had to stop trading. So her 
employment status didnt  mean that she shouldnt have been sold the cover.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont think Mrs S has lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3883541