K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mrs A says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs A says that she had to accept the PPI being added to her mortgage. But 
because of the amount of money  that Mrs A was borrowing  compared to the value of 
the property she was buying, it was a condition of the mortgage she was applying  for 
that she take out PPI. Nationwide was entitled to apply  such conditions to mortgage 
offers, so I dont  think it was wrong  to have required Mrs A to get PPI. But I do think 
that Mrs A was in all likelihood aware  that she couldve applied for other mortgages, 
with other lenders,  if she did not want to take out PPI. So even if Mrs A didnt initially  
intend to get PPI cover when she went to get a mortgage, I think  that she was willing  
to pay for it so that she could  get the mortgage  offered  to her by Nationwide.  
Nationwide didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs A got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits  on, the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she said about her employers 
sick pay policy. However, the PPI wouldve been paid out in addition  to any sick pay. So Mrs 
A couldve used any sick pay to cover other outgoings, if she was unable  to work due to 
sickness. 
Mrs A also says that she had jewellery  to sell and could rely on family members to cover  her 
mortgage repayments if she was unable to work.  But her familys circumstances couldve 
changed which meant their financial support couldnt  be guaranteed.  And selling her 
jewellery may not have been enough  to meet her mortgage repayments as well as other 
outgoings, if she was unable to work for a prolonged period of time. 
So I still think Mrs A couldve benefited  from the PPI if she needed to claim.  And it may have 
given Mrs B peace of mind knowing that her mortgage repayments would still be paid for up 
to 24 months per claim,  if she became unemployed. So these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN38359682my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835968