K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Metro Bank PLC refuse to refund £4,200 that they say was 
taken from their account, without their knowledge,  by fraudsters. Metro Bank has agreed  to 
refund £889.96   money taken from Mr and Mrs Fs overdraft  facility. They want  the 
remaining £3310.04  refunded.
background
To begin with, its important to note that its not in dispute that Mr F was the victim of a scam 
here, so Ill use the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party involved.
On Saturday, 19 August  2017 Mr F received a phone call from a fraudster claiming to be 
from the fraud department at Metro Bank. The fraudster asked Mr F some  security questions 
(he recalls  being asked  to confirm personal details  such as his date of birth and address), 
and referred Mr F to a text message he said Metro Bank had just sent asking if Mr F had set 
up a new payee.  Mr F had received this text, which appeared  to come from Metro Bank, but 
he hadnt seen  it until the call because he was gardening and hadnt  been  looking at his 
phone. He told the fraudster he hadnt set up any new payee.
The fraudster told Mr F that they monitor accounts  and had noted  that Mr F didnt do much  
activity online on his account, especially at the weekend. He told Mr F thats how theyd 
picked up on this unusual  account activity. This sounded accurate; Mr F usually only did 
online banking at work during the week. The fraudster told Mr F that theyd cancel the new 
payee for him. He said he would send Mr F a one-time  passcode (OTP) by text message to 
his mobile phone, and that Mr F would  need to read the code back to the fraudster to get the 
new payee cancelled.
Mr F has said that he wanted to check that he was speaking with a member of Metro  Bank  
staff; so when the OTP came through he told the fraudster it hadnt, and asked him to call 
back in a few minutes. The fraudster said theyd  resend the OTP and agreed to call back.  
When he did so he took Mr F through security again.  Mr F has said this reassured  him that 
he was speaking to Metro Bank staff  he thought a fraudster wouldnt call back  like that.
When the OTPs came through, the text messages appeared to come  from the same source 
as the previous message  which had asked if Mr F had set up a new payee. The previous  
message hadnt,  in fact, come from Metro Bank;  it had been  sent by the fraudster whod 
spoofed Metro Banks phone number. The genuine  OTP message read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode  to setup a new payee is XXXXXXXX. If you did not 
setup a new payee, then please call us on 03** ** ** *00.
Mr F has said that he didnt read the full text message because hed been gardening and 
didnt have his glasses on. So he just read the highlighted OTP out to the fraudster as 
requested. Hes said the fraudster convinced me that this was necessary to put a stop to 
and cancel the payee from going any further . He says he was also told by the fraudster that 
he needed to act quickly.
The fraudster then told Mr F that the new payee  had been  successfully cancelled and that 
hed need to reset his online banking. Mr F said he wouldnt be able to do this until he was in 
work on Monday  as he doesnt have a home  PC, and he asked the fraudster if hed be able 
Ref: DRN37277552to help him with this. The fraudster agreed to call Mr F at 9:30 am on Monday, 21 August 
2017.
When he didnt receive the arranged phone  call on 21 August 2017,  Mr F went to his local 
branch to reset his online  banking. It was only when Mr F checked his balance in branch  that 
he discovered hed been scammed. It became clear that while  hed been on the phone  to the 
fraudster on 19 August, the fraudster had logged in to Mr Fs online banking  and used the 
OTP code read out to him by Mr F to set up a new payee. The fraudster  had then transferred 
£4,200 to the new payee; clearing Mr Fs account and taking it into overdraft by £939.96.
Metro Bank  contacted the bank holding  the beneficiary account but it confirmed that the 
funds had been withdrawn shortly  after receipt  on 19 August  2017.
The following  table lists the events relevant to this case, and has been compiled using Metro 
Banks internet  banking  audit, its OTP audit, the statement for Mr and Mrs Fs account, and 
screenshots provided by Mr F of the text messages he received.
Date and time What happened?
04/08/2017 Payment of £1,500 received into Mr and Mrs Fs account.
09/08/2017  14:47 Account logged into and viewed.
14/08/2017  13:16 Account logged into and viewed in Metro Bank branch local 
to Mr and Mrs F.
16/08/2017  00:03 Account logged into and viewed.
17/08/2017  12:17 Account logged into and viewed.
19/08/2017  12:15 Mr F received a text message from the fraudster, but 
appearing to come  from Metro Bank, which  read:
Mr F, youve  successfully  added a new payee. If you did 
not set up a new payee, then please call us on 03** *** 
**88.
19/08/2017  time uncertain Mr F answered a telephone call from the fraudster, posing 
as Metro Bank staff.
19/08/2017  12:16 Account logged into and viewed.
19/08/2017  12:19 Mr F received a text message from Metro  Bank  which read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee 
is XXXXXXXX. If you did not setup a new payee, then 
please call us on 03** ** ** *00.
19/08/17 12:19 New payee created.
19/08/17 12:22 Mr F received a text message from Metro  Bank  which read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee 
is XXXXXXXX. If you did not setup a new payee, then 
please call us on 03** ** ** *00.
19/08/17 12:22 New payee created.
19/08/17 12:28 New payee created.
19/08/17 12:29 Faster payment for £4,200 made  from Mr and Mrs Fs 
account to a newly created payee. This transaction left the 
Ref: DRN37277553account £939.96 overdrawn.
19/08/2017 12:31 - 32 3 failed log in attempts locked account.
19/08/17 time uncertain Mr F received a text message from the fraudster, but 
appearing to come  from Metro Bank, which  read:
Thank you for completing  the restoration  process.  Your 
account is now under safeguard and you will be issued with 
a new customer number  within 24 hours.
21/08/2017 Mr F went to his local branch to reset his online banking - it 
comes to light that hes been  the victim of a scam.
21/08/2017 11:18 Account logged into and viewed in Metro Bank branch local 
to Mr and Mrs F.
21/08/2017 12:01 Branch staff notify Metro  Banks fraud department  by email 
about whats happened.
21/08/2017 12:15 Mr and Mrs Fs account is restricted.
Metro Bank  investigated  what  had happened  but refused  to refund Mr F on the basis  that he 
had not taken  adequate care of [his] security details. It explained  that in order  to log in to 
online banking the fraudster would have needed:  Mr Fs 12 digit customer number; 3 digits  
from his security number; and 3 characters  from his password. It also explained  that in order  
to set up, and make  payments to, a new payee  online,  an OTP sent to Mr Fs registered 
mobile would need  to be inputted along  with randomly generated numbers from the Primary 
Account Number (PAN) on his debit card.
Mr F said that he couldnt understand how the fraudster  was able to login to his online 
banking because he didnt  give the fraudster anything other  than the OTP. Hes said the 
fraudster did not at any stage ask me for any personal security  numbers  letters or anything  
like that.
Mr F also said that the last time he logged into online banking prior to the disputed 
transactions was on 4 August 2017, to check that a £1,500 payment had gone in, and once 
during week commencing  7 August, but he couldnt  remember the exact date.  Mr F has said 
that prior to the fraud when he used online banking he used to enter his full eight digit 
passcode and password. He thinks the process  has since changed and now only asks for 
partial digits/characters.
Metro Bank  has confirmed that its online banking process has changed over time. The 
original process was to enter the full 12 digit number, partial security number and full 
password. This was then changed  to full 12 digit number, partial security number and partial 
password.
Metro Banks response to Mr Fs complaint
In response to Mr and Mrs Fs complaint Metro Bank made a detailed  6 page submission. It 
accepted that Mr F did not authorise  the disputed transaction and, recognising  its obligations 
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  s.83 (Liability for misuse of credit facilities), Metro  Bank 
offered to refund Mr F the money taken  from his overdraft facility,  less £50. But said it 
wouldnt be refunding  the remaining £3310.04 because  Mr F had acted with gross 
negligence in failing to protect  his security details.
Ref: DRN37277554Metro Bank  said that a customer is grossly negligent  if they, have revealed to someone  
else, or written down, [their] PIN number or other  security details used for online, mobile and 
telephone banking.  It said Mr F is liable  for the loss because the transfer has come about 
from him receiving a call from an unsolicited and unverified third party.  It also suggested 
that the wording  of the text message containing  the OTP should  have alerted Mr F to 
something being amiss. It said, Mr F has acted with gross  negligence  in providing the one-
time passcode to the scammers without questioning it first.
With regard to how the fraudster was able to access Mr Fs online banking, Metro  Bank  put 
forward two possible scenarios: either Mr F has been the victim  of a phishing  attempt and 
perhaps entered his login information into a fake Metro Bank login page; or Mr F has allowed 
the fraudster remote  access  to his computer and the fraudster has captured  his login details 
that way.
Metro Bank  also said that it displays  security warnings on its website, and its provided 
screenshots of what those  warnings look like. On the section of its website entitled Ways to 
bank  banking  securely, under the heading Passcodes and alerts, the following 
information is displayed  if a customer clicks on an arrow to expand  the view:
One time passcode to your mobile
To keep  you safe well send a unique code to the mobile phone youve registered with us:
to confirm when  you set up a new payee using internet banking
to confirm a payment
for setting up your security  information
Well never ask for this code at any other time and you should never share  it with us or 
anyone else if its not for the reasons above.
Its really important you tell us if your mobile  number changes. And if you get a one-time 
passcode message youre not expecting let us know by calling 0345 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. He agreed with Metro  Bank  that Mr F had 
been grossly negligent  by giving the OTP to the fraudster; he said an OTP is not needed  for 
cancelling suspicious payees/payments. He also thought it likely that Mr F had given  the 
fraudster enough  information to login  to online banking when he was speaking with him on 
19 August 2017,  but just didnt remember doing  so because he didnt suspect anything at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the investigators view and their complaint was passed to me. I 
came to a different  conclusion to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision on 
22 January 2019  setting  out my thoughts.
In that decision  I acknowledged  that when considering what  is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.  I remain  of the view that these considerations are the 
relevant ones. I set them out below:
relevant considerations
Ref: DRN37277555Metro Bank  is a Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) regulated firm, and was carrying out 
regulated activities. As such the FCAs overarching Principles for Businesses apply including  
the requirement to pay due regard to a customers interest and treat them fairly (Principle  6).
The transactions from Mr Fs account  were made in August 2017. So the relevant legislation 
is that set out in the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSR  2009)1. I think the following 
sections of PSR 2009  are of particular relevance  here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
1 The Payment Services Regulations 2009 were replaced in January  2018,  which resulted  in some 
regulations now carrying different numbers. All references in this decision  to the Payment Services 
Regulations mean  the 2009 regulations.
Ref: DRN37277556(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transaction
62.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 doesnt elaborate on what constitutes  consent beyond saying that it must be 
given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its 
payment service provider. The payment  services directive itself (which  the PSR 2009 
implement) doesnt explain what consent means  here, but says In the absence  of such 
consent, a payment transaction shall be considered  to be unauthorised. The FCAs 2013  
guidance on the PSR 2009  also said nothing further about what consent means.
So I think its fair, when  considering whether  consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
credit facilities
As Mr Fs account  was taken into his overdraft facility by the fraudulent transfer its 
necessary to take into consideration  the provisions of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. PSR 
2009 Regulation 52 (Disapplication of certain  regulations in the case  of consumer credit 
agreements) includes the following:
The following provisions  of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 shall apply  in relation to contracts 
for the provision of payment  services which are regulated agreements for the purposes  of 
that Act in place  of the following provisions  of these Regulations 
(c) section 83 (liability for misuse of credit  facilities) in place of regulations  59, 61 and 62;
Ref: DRN37277557The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 s.83 (Liability  for misuse of credit facilities) says:
(1)The  debtor under a regulated consumer  credit agreement shall not be liable to the 
creditor for any loss arising  from use of the credit  facility  by another person  not acting, or to 
be treated as acting,  as the debtors agent. 
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 s.84 (1) does provide that a debtor can be made liable to the 
extent of £50 for loss arising from use of a credit-token (such as a debit or credit card)  by 
other persons, but I note this case  involves a credit facility, not a credit-token.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, theyre of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care, but as I have 
described above gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether Mr Fs actions fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed with gross negligence 
Ref: DRN37277558to keep his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
the terms and conditions of Mr Fs account
Metro Banks terms and conditions (Our service  relationship with personal customers   
June 2016) contain the following sections of relevance to this complaint.
5.2 Keeping your  security information safe
You will be responsible for any instructions given by you, or anyone authorised to act on 
your behalf,  from the time that you successfully pass through security to the time that you 
leave the relevant service. It is your responsibility  to keep details of your cards  and security 
details, including  PINs, security numbers,  access codes or passwords, safe and to make  
sure they cannot  be used  by anyone else or for fraudulent purposes.  For example:
 you must not reveal your security  details to any other person; 
 you must not respond to an email asking  for your security details, even if it looks like the 
email is from us (we will never send you an email  like this so you should report this to us at 
phishing@metrobank.plc.uk);
5.4 Internet banking
Protecting you when  you are using internet banking is our priority 
 We will ask you to confirm your identity using our current security procedures.  We will 
never ask you for more  than three digits of your password 
 We use two types of authentication for setting up any new payees. If you receive a code on 
your mobile and you did not set up a new payee,  do not enter the code into internet banking 
and contact us immediately 
8.1 Transactions  you didnt authorise
We will be responsible for any payment transaction that you did not authorise,  unless:
 you have  acted fraudulently; 
 you have  revealed to someone  else, or written  down,  your PIN number or other security 
details used for online, mobile and telephone banking; 
8.4 Claiming back  a loss from us
If you suffer a loss because of something we have done or failed to do, you will usually be 
entitled to claim back that loss from us. However,  there are some  exceptions where you will 
not be able to claim from us and they are as follows 
2. Loss where you have acted fraudulently or negligently.
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision I made the following 
findings:
I think the above relevant considerations mean  that, if the transaction  Mr and Mrs F 
dispute was unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable  for Metro Bank to refund the 
amount stolen from their credit facility. And refund  the full amount taken from the balance 
of their account, unless,  with intent or gross  negligence, Mr F failed to comply  with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Ref: DRN37277559I think there are a few key questions that are relevant to my consideration about  what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Mr F? and;
2.If they werent, can Metro Bank demonstrate that Mr F acted with gross 
negligence  particularly taking into account the terms and conditions  of the 
relationship with Metro  Bank  and the obligations  set out in Regulation 57 of the 
PSR 2009?
were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr F?
Metro Bank  accepts that the payment in dispute was unauthorised  by the account holder, 
Mr F. But in the interests of completeness, Ill briefly set out why I also think  the payment 
was not authorised.
As Ive said above,  the payer  must have consented  to a payment transaction taking 
place, before the bank is entitled to debit the account (PSR 55). Its commonly  
understood that giving  consent means  giving permission for something to happen. It 
follows that, in the context  of payment transactions, consent requires the payer to have 
knowledge that a payment transaction will be executed. An account holder who is 
unaware a payment is being made, cant rightly be said to have given their consent to 
make a payment.
There is no evidence that suggests Mr F knew a payment was being made from his 
account on 19 August  2017. I dont think it would be correct to say that by disclosing the 
OTP, Mr F authorised or consented to payments being made  from the account. On the 
contrary, Mr F believed that the fraudster was helping him cancel a new payee and so 
prevent the potential  for fraudulent payments to leave his account.
So my starting point is that I dont think Mr and Mrs F should be held liable for the part of 
the transaction which came from their overdraft  facility  (£939.96).  And I dont think they 
should be held liable  for the rest of the transaction  (£3260.04) unless it can be said that 
Mr F failed  with intent or gross negligence to comply  with the terms and conditions of the 
account, and the obligations set out in the PSR 2009.
Can Metro Bank demonstrate that Mr F acted with gross negligence?
The principal  obligation relevant to this case is Mr Fs obligation to take all reasonable 
steps to keep safe the security features  of the account. The account terms and 
conditions explain what this means in practice. I think  Mr F was under  an obligation not 
to reveal his security  details, including OTPs, to any other person.
Unfortunately, the circumstances were such that, when comparing Mr Fs actions against 
the terms and conditions of the account,  its fair to say he didnt comply with them 
because he shared an OTP with another person (the fraudster). But simply failing to 
comply with the accounts terms and conditions is not what  the PSR 2009  say makes Mr 
F liable for the losses.
Metro Bank  hasnt suggested  that Mr F intentionally  failed  to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account, or with the other  relevant obligations set out in PSR 2009 
Ref: DRN372775510Regulation 57. And Im satisfied that he didnt fail to comply intentionally. Metro Bank 
does, however, consider that Mr F was grossly negligent. But on the evidence  I currently 
have before me, I dont think this is a fair conclusion in all the circumstances. Ill explain 
why.
Scams such as the one experienced by Mr F are very sophisticated. And its likely the 
fraudster used a range of persuasive techniques  to trick, deceive and manipulate Mr F 
into doing what he did (this is called social engineering). The fraudster set up the scam 
by first spoofing Metro Banks  phone number and sending Mr F a text message  
suggesting there had been unauthorised  activity  (the setting up of a new payee) on his 
account. This text was quickly  followed up by a phone call where  the fraudster enhanced 
his credibility by talking to Mr F about  his typical account activity. The fraudster then told 
Mr F that hed send him an OTP to cancel the new payee and, sure enough,  a genuine 
text from Metro Bank came  through joining the thread with the fraudsters previous text 
message. I dont think Mr F had any reason to think that the fraudsters text message 
wasnt genuine, or that the person he was speaking with wasnt from Metro  Bank.  Any 
doubt he might have had at the very start of the call ended when the fraudster  followed  
Mr Fs request to call him back.
In these circumstances I dont think Mr F acted unreasonably by reading  out the 
highlighted OTP to the fraudster. I dont think what he did fell so far below the standard  
of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say he failed with gross negligence to keep 
his security information safe.  And Im currently minded to find that what he did, sharing 
an OTP with someone who he was entitled to believe was calling  from his banks fraud  
department, doesnt amount to a very significant degree of carelessness.
I think its clear  that Mr F didnt appreciate any risk in what  he was doing. He was so 
satisfied that he was speaking with a member of staff from Metro Bank that he even 
made arrangements for a call back on the following Monday morning. And I think, given 
the convincing  nature of the text messages  and the social engineering the fraudster 
clearly employed (he successfully made Mr F think that he had information about Mr Fs 
account activity  and that Mr F needed  to act quickly to secure his account against  a 
current threat), that many people would have acted as Mr F did.
Metro Bank  has explained  that in order to log in to online banking, set up a new payee 
and make payments,  the fraudster would have  needed more  than the OTP that Mr F 
acknowledges he shared. It says the fraudster would have needed Mr Fs 12 digit 
customer number, digits from his security  number, characters from his password, and 
the PAN from his debit  card. Metro Bank doesnt suggest  that Mr F compromised these  
security details during  the call with the fraudster  on 19 August 2017.  It suggests he either 
unwittingly entered these details into a fake Metro Bank login page, or allowed the 
fraudster to capture  these  details by giving remote access  to the computer he uses for 
online banking.
I dont think its possible to know for certain how the fraudster obtained all the security 
details that were necessary for this scam  to be successful.  However,  Ive considered  the 
possible scenarios  and what I think is most likely,  and thought about whether Metro  Bank  
has provided any evidence that Mr F failed  with gross negligence to keep these security  
details safe.
To start with, Ive not seen any evidence to support the theory that Mr F gave the 
fraudster remote access to his computer. Im satisfied that this is unlikely to explain how 
Ref: DRN372775511these security details were compromised. I also dont think  its likely  that Mr F divulged 
these details during  the call on 19 August 2017. I say this because Mr F has been 
consistent in saying that he wasnt asked  for such details, and because it appears that 
someone other than Mr F was able to login to the account online before the fraudster 
called him. The account was logged  into and viewed (from unusual IP addresses  for the 
account) on 16 and 17 August 2017. Metro  Bank  has acknowledged  that its possible 
these logins relate to the fraudster, because the IP addresses  are very similar to the 
one used on 19 August.
This leaves  me to conclude that the most likely  point  of compromise for these security 
details was a fake Metro  Bank website (a phishing site). I note that Mr Fs recollections of 
when he last logged  in to online banking before the fraud, and Metro Banks internet 
banking records, dont  completely tally up. Indeed, Metro Bank has confirmed to me that 
it has no record of a login on 4 August 2017.  Its said, its possible this may have been 
the point of compromise for Mr Fs online banking logon details.
This leads  me to believe  that Mr F might  be recalling logins  which involved a fake Metro 
Bank login page.  I also think its significant that Mr F recalls  times when he has been 
asked at login for full, rather than partial, details.  This suggests to me that its most  likely 
Mr F was the victim of phishing and entered these details into a fake Metro Bank website 
at some point before  16 August.  But falling  for a phishing  attempt doesnt automatically 
amount to gross negligence  on Mr Fs part.
There is no way I can know what the website Mr F used looked like. But Ive seen 
examples of phishing websites  that look strikingly similar to the genuine Metro Bank 
website. And I dont think it would be readily apparent to most reasonable consumers 
entering their details into such a website  that theyre not dealing with Metro Bank. If Mr F 
did compromise these  security details in this way, and at present I think  this most likely, I 
dont think theres enough  evidence to say his actions displayed  a lack of care that goes 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
Metro Bank  has drawn my attention to the security  warnings it displays on its website. Its 
particularly highlighted  the warning it gives about Passcodes and alerts.  From  what  I 
understand of the screenshots Metro Bank has provided, to read this warning a 
consumer would need to go to the Metro Bank website, click on Personal, click on 
Ways to bank, click on Banking securely,  and scroll  down  or expand the information 
under the Passcodes and alerts tab. Its not a warning that a consumer would see 
regularly or at the point of login, and its not a warning that Mr F would have seen when 
he was on the phone  to the fraudster.
I appreciate that increasing public awareness  of fraud is a big challenge  for businesses. 
And its good practice to display warnings about scams, and undertake other  awareness  
raising initiatives, with consumer protection in mind. Increased levels of consumer 
awareness may, in some cases, help to prevent frauds like this from succeeding. And its 
reasonable for Metro Bank to expect that account  holders, including Mr F, will engage 
with its efforts to raise awareness. But not remembering this particular  warning,  which  he 
may or may not have  read in the past,  when he was under the influence  of a 
sophisticated scam does  not, in my view,  mean  that Mr F acted with gross  negligence.
Ive noted that PSR 2009 Regulation 62 suggests  that Mr F can be liable up to a 
maximum of £50 for losses incurred as a result of unauthorised payment transactions.  
But the terms and conditions that applied  to Mr and Mrs Fs account dont make  any 
Ref: DRN372775512provision for Metro Bank  to withhold up to £50. As Metro Bank hasnt  reserved this right 
Im currently  of the opinion that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund the full 
amount of these unauthorised transactions.
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provision findings neither party had anything  to add. Mr and Mrs F said 
they were happy  with the outcome. And Metro Bank  agreed to compensate  Mr and Mrs F in 
accordance with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have  reproduced 
above, and which now form part of my final decision.  In short, I dont  think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that Mr or Mrs F authorised the transaction.  And I dont think, in all the 
circumstances, that Mr F failed with intent  or gross  negligence  to comply with his obligations 
as a payment  service  user.
fair compensation
For the reasons  given,  I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Metro Bank to refuse to 
refund to Mr and Mrs F the amount stolen from their account. To fairly compensate Mr and 
Mrs F, I direct Metro Bank to:
1.credit  Mr and Mrs Fs account with £3310.04 (this being  the amount taken from the 
balance of Mr and Mrs Fs account, plus the £50 of the overdraft facility that Metro  
Bank is currently holding  them  liable for).
I find the bank  is not entitled to withhold up to £50 of this. First, because part of the 
loss involved a credit  facility (not a credit token)  and secondly, in any event, this is 
not provided for in the terms  and conditions of the account.
2.refund  any fees or charges that Mr and Mrs F may have incurred on their account 
that directly resulted  from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
3.pay interest on the amount at 1. at the account  interest rate, from the date of the 
withdrawals to the date of settlement.
If Metro Bank deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr and 
Mrs F with the appropriate tax deduction  certificate.
my final decision
Cases such as this are a good  example  of the kind of finely balanced decisions I have to 
make in circumstances  where  I cant know for sure everything that has occurred  decisions 
that I must make on the balance of evidence, fairly  and reasonably.  But, for all the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think its fair and reasonable to tell Metro Bank PLC to reimburse  Mr and 
Mrs Fs loss.
Ref: DRN372775513Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727755