K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken in 
2001. Mr A says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint but thought  Capital Ones  offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr A paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr As representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Capital One should have disclosed 
the commission it received - but that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Mr A has said the PPI was just included with his card.  But his postal application form for 
the card had a part for the PPI with boxes to select from to say either yes or no to the 
cover  and nothing on the form said the PPI had to be taken.  On Mr As form the yes 
box was selected  - and I think he wouldve known that if he didnt want  the PPI he should 
select no instead. So I think Capital One made it clear Mr A didnt have to take the PPI 
and he chose to take it.
Ref: DRN39117362Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A - so it didnt have to check  the PPI was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr A enough clear and timely information 
so he could decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it and I dont think he wouldve taken it 
without some understanding  of the cover  it provided - so it looks  to me like he wanted  
this type of cover. His job situation wouldnt have made  it hard for him to claim and he 
hadnt any health issues the policy excluded.  He wasnt affected by the significant  
exclusions or limits on the cover  and it wasnt fundamentally wrong for him.
Overall, I dont  think it likely the cover was too dissimilar to what its likely Mr A, from the 
information he had, thought he was buying.  From what  hes told us, he wouldve only got 
statutory pay from his employer for sickness or redundancy  - and didnt have anything 
else, like savings, to pay his card if he couldnt work. So the PPI benefit wouldve been 
useful for him. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  
With all this in mind, I dont think Mr A wouldve declined the cover had Capital One done  
anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations or exclusions on claims relating to back and mental 
health conditions,  in light of Mr As circumstances at the time of sale, and despite its 
limitations and exclusions, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for him  as discussed  
above. So, I think he wouldve still thought he had some good reasons  to take the policy.
Overall, I consider Mr A wouldve still taken  the PPI. It was sufficiently  close  to what  its likely 
he thought he was getting and given his circumstances  it couldve provided  a useful benefit 
at a difficult time if he couldnt work.  And in those circumstances,  I think he wouldve taken 
the policy in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Capital One should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  
the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of 
making a claim.
Mr As representative hasnt said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold  the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN39117363Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Capital  One should have disclosed the commission it received  
and that Capital Ones offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate  for the 
unfairness caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Capital One didnt tell Mr A about the high levels of commission and profit  share paid in this 
case. So taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Capital One and Mr A was unfair  under section 140A  of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
because Capital One didnt tell him about the high levels of commission  and profit  share 
in this case 
I dont think Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr A because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr As representatives have made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr A should get back all the money he paid for the policy  
because: Capital One failed to tell Mr A about the high commission  and profit-share rates 
paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say 
that meant  the policy was poor value,  they say I should find Mr A wouldnt have taken the 
policy had he known  about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN39117364commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a court  
would automatically  order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude  that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission  been disclosed; and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence  the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused  by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr A 
in order to remedy the unfairness  caused by Capital One not disclosing the high level of 
commission to him before  he purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr As representative suggests, driven to conclude  that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Capital  Ones failure to disclose  the level of commission for 
the reasons Ive given above.
I think it was fair for Capital One to calculate  compensation in line with the FCAs guidance 
and return some of the money Mr A paid for his PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr A 
with the policy Ive concluded above he wouldve still taken if Capital  One had done 
everything it should have done   but with lower commission and profit  share levels.
So I consider that Capital  Ones offer of payment  of an amount equivalent  to the commission  
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest  where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr As complaint  or make any award  in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Capital One (Europe) plc should pay Mr A an amount equivalent to the commission  and 
Ref: DRN39117365profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911736