K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M remortgaged their home in 2006. At the same time they were  sold a PPI policy  
which would have covered the repayments  on their mortgage  for up to a year at a time if Mrs 
M couldnt  work.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt know they had the PPI. They say there wasnt  any mention of 
it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken it 
into account when  deciding this case. Having done  so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage during a face to face meeting.  Santander has 
provided copies  of the application form that was completed at the time.  There  is a separate 
section for PPI which makes it clear  theres  a choice about buying it. There is a tick in the 
box to agree to buy the PPI and Mr and Mrs M both signed the form. And when the mortgge 
offer was sent it stated clearly that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to buy any insurance other than 
buildings and contents cover. So I think its clear Mr and Mrs M had a choice about it. 
Mr and Mrs M had to complete another  form to apply for the PPI which was sent to the policy 
administrators. This included a separate direct debit  mandate for the premiums to be 
collected. I dont  think this could have happened without Mr and Mrs Ms input. And 
Santander has provided evidence that Mrs M contacted the administrators  in 2007 with a 
query about the policy.
In light of this information  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M bought the policy  knowing they had 
a choice about it. 
Santander gave  Mrs M a recommendation to buy the PPI, so it had a duty to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was right for her. 
Looking at Mrs Ms circumstances at the time I think it was right for her. I say this because:
Mrs M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any terms which mightve 
made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those related to 
existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs M told us she had some sick pay entitlement from her employer. But the PPI 
would have  paid out in addition to this and potentially  for considerably longer than her 
Ref: DRN35208152full sick pay would have lasted. After we sent our view to Mrs M she told us she had 
an income  protection  policy  too, but she hasnt been able to provide any evidence of 
this so I havent taken  it into account;
Mrs M would have  likely received some redundancy pay. But, again, the PPI would 
have paid out in addition to this, leaving Mrs Ms redundancy pay to cover other 
uninsured expenses;
Mr and Mrs M didnt have any savings they could  have used to meet their 
repayments in an emergency, so I think the PPI would  have offered a useful  benefit;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other similar policies on the market around 
the same time. It was flexible as it could be amended  or cancelled at any time.
Its possible  Mr and Mrs M werent given all the important detail about the policy. But I dont 
think even if Mr and Mrs M had received all the information they needed that it would have 
made a difference to their decision to buy the PPI, because it was suitable  for Mrs M in the 
way Ive already  described. 
So, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M lost out as a result of anything Santander might have done 
wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It follows that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3520815