K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Kensington Mortgage  Company Limited  took possession of his house 
and disposed of his belongings. Hes unhappy about  how Kensington administered the 
arrears on his mortgage. 
He says that Kensington didnt offer any assistance  with payment arrangements to allow him 
to keep the property,  that it treated him unfairly  during the repossession  of his property, and 
that it didnt communicate effectively making  him aware of its actions.
Mr N also feels  he was overcharged  fees which increased the arrears.
background 
Mr N took out a mortgage in 2004.  At some point after this, ownership of the mortgage 
passed to Kensington. I will use that name  to include  its predecessors and their managers.
Evidently Mr N got behind  with his repayments because in 2007 Kensington issued court  
proceedings seeking possession of the secured property. The hearing  took place on 
11 April 2007. The court made a possession order but suspended it provided Mr N made  his 
contractual monthly payment  (CMP)  plus £100  per month off the arrears. The court  was 
informed that Mr N had previously agreed to pay the arrears at £400 per month, which  would 
take just over one year,  implying that the arrears were then about £4,800.
In June 2009 there was a further  hearing at which time the arrears were said to be 
£7,897.70, albeit that this figure was challenged by Mr N. That hearing seems to have  
followed the issue of a warrant of possession by Kensington, because the court  suspended  
any warrant and ordered that none be issued, again provided Mr N made  his CMP plus £100  
per month off the arrears.
In March 2017 Kensington applied to the court for permission to enforce  the possession  
order, which had by then expired. Permission was granted.
On 14 December 2017 Kensington wrote to Mr N confirming a payment arrangement  which 
had been made. This was that he would pay £1388.49, make  his CMPs by the 21st of each 
month, and pay £100.00 by 21 January  2018, then monthly for the next 88 months.
On 13 June 2018 Kensington wrote to Mr N saying  he hadnt made the agreed  payments so 
it had cancelled the arrangement. It said:
Please contact us now on the telephone number shown above to let us know what payment 
you can offer to us. If you are not able to make a payment, we have a team of experienced 
staff to help you and they will take the time to understand your personal circumstances and 
see what can be done to find a solution.
On 12 July 2018 Kensington wrote to Mr N again. It appears from that letter that the arrears 
had increased. Kensington said:
A court order has been given to us to take possession of your property. We have  instructed  
our solicitors  to get an eviction date from the court so we can repossess your property. We 
will cancel this eviction if we can make  an agreement with you to pay the payment arrears. 
Ref: DRN39861152Please contact us now on the telephone  number shown above to discuss your payment 
offer.
On 8 August  2018 Kensington wrote to Mr N:
The court  has confirmed  that we can repossess your property on 17 August 2018.  
Repossession will go ahead unless we are paid the full payment arrears  as shown above in 
cleared funds before this date.
We want to avoid repossessing  your property. If you can clear the overdue payment arrears 
as shown above and show you can make acceptable payments in the future, we may 
consider not taking this action.
If you are not able to pay this amount,  please call us now so we can discuss  your 
circumstances and other options that may be available  to you.
.If you are not able to make an acceptable  offer to us, please make sure you remove  all 
personal possessions  from the property by the eviction date. Any items left in the property 
will not be insured  or placed in storage. The property will be cleared 14 days after the 
eviction.
On 17 August 2018 Kensington wrote to Mr N confirming it had taken possession  that day. It 
said:
There is a 14-day  notice  shown at the property giving you 14 days  to remove your 
possessions. This does not include  fixtures and fittings. Any items left in the property will not 
be insured or placed in storage. The property will be cleared 14 days  after the eviction.
Please contact us to arrange access to the property or if you need any further information 
about this notice. 
Please tell us your new address and contact details so we can keep our records  up to date. 
We will contact  you once the sale has completed or sooner if needed.
On 1 January  2019 Mr N wrote a letter of complaint to Kensington. He said that it had taken 
possession of his house whilst he was away and that hed never received any 
correspondence. He said hed spoken  to Kensington on 23 July 2018 and made an 
arrangement to pay £2,000, which he did, and to clear the balance by the end of August.
He said hed returned on 2 September and spoken  to Kensington on 3 September. He said 
he was told he wouldnt get his house  back unless he cleared the arrears which then 
amounted to £12,232.19. Hed paid this sum on 18 September and was then told hed have 
to redeem the mortgage.
On 1 October Kensington had instructed a contractor  to remove Mr Ns belongings. He said 
Kensington had never told him to take out his belongings  or that it was planning to get them  
removed.
Mr N didnt understand how hed been mistreated all along. He wanted his house  and 
belongings back.
Ref: DRN39861153Kensington replied  to Mr N on 6 March 2019.  It said it had written to him on 13 June 2018  to 
ask him to make contact, as he hadnt  maintained the payment arrangement. It had written 
to him again  on 12 July 2018 to tell him that it would be instructing its solicitors to obtain  an 
eviction date from the court. It had written  again  on 8 August 2018  telling him it had received 
confirmation from the court that possession  would be given on 17 August 2018.
Possession was given on that date. Kensington had attached a 14-day  notice  to a window 
giving Mr N 14 days to remove his possessions.  The notice said failure to remove his 
possessions would result  in the property  being cleared 14 days  after the eviction. Kensington 
had reviewed all the notes on Mr Ns account and couldnt see that hed said hed be out of 
the country or for how long. 
Kensington had listened  to the call made on 23 July 2018. Mr N had been  told that the 
shortfall needed to be paid and an arrangement  set, otherwise Kensington would continue 
enforcement action. Mr N had said he would pay the shortfall by the end of August 2018  but 
Kensington had also confirmed that it wouldnt hold enforcement action.
Kensington said Mr N had contacted it on 3 September 2018, and it told him that if he could 
pay the outstanding balance and provide  income  and expenditure details, three months 
bank statements and payslips, Kensington could put a proposal to its management. Mr N 
had said he couldnt  pay the outstanding balance. 
On 17 September  2018 Kensington had received Mr Ns documents and proposal,  which  
was referred to senior management. On 19 September 2018,  Kensington  had made the 
decision that it wouldnt be handing back the property without full redemption of the 
mortgage. This was because there  was no change  in Mr Ns circumstances and just clearing 
the payment arrears  wasnt  enough  to get the property back. In addition  enforcement  action 
had been commenced by the second charge.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  He said hed been  away after 23 July 2018 and 
hadnt received  any correspondence, and that in early  September Kensington had told him 
the only way he could get his house  back was by clearing  all the arrears,  which  he did.
He said Kensington  had failed to address the process under which  it removed and disposed 
of his belongings. He felt his complaint hadnt  been  answered at all and that most of the 
information given  was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Ns complaint be upheld. He said he could  only 
look at transactions  in the last six years  prior to the complaint.  This meant  he could look at 
the conduct of the account  from January 2013  onwards. He could see thered been 
longstanding arrears  before  this.
A payment arrangement  had been made in December 2017 to pay the CMP plus £100  but it 
was broken and Kensington  had a possession order. The adjudicator couldnt say that 
Kensington hadnt offered  Mr N a payment arrangement.
Mr N had complained  about lack of communication which resulted in possession being taken 
while he was abroad. But the adjudicator  couldnt see that Mr N had informed Kensington 
that he would be away, so he couldnt  say it had acted unfairly in the level of communication.
Ref: DRN39861154Kensington had informed  Mr N on 3, 6 and 20 September  and 29 October of the agent he 
needed to contact to arrange  collection of his belongings. The adjudicator couldnt hold 
Kensington responsible for their loss.
Mr N had complained  to Kensington that it hadnt  sent a home  sale pack which hed 
requested in April 2018.  This had resulted in his having to contact Kensington again. In 
recognition of this, Kensington  had offered  him £100.00 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused. The adjudicator thought this was a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr N didnt agree so the complaints been passed to me for review. He said hed spoken to 
Kensington on 23 July 2018, the day before he travelled. While he was away  Kensington 
never contacted him and upon  his return Kensington gave  him access to the house and he 
saw the letter of 8 August 2018.  He then cleared the arrears. He said Kensington had 
promised to give him back the house  but didnt.
The 14-day  notice expired on 31 August and Kensington  didnt  remove  his belongings,  so he 
assumed that was because they were  negotiating  about clearing the arrears.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont agree that Kensington  didnt offer Mr N any assistance. It agreed  to payment 
arrangements which  matched  the terms on which the court  had originally suspended the 
possession order, but Mr N didnt  keep to the arrangements.  
Kensington didnt  succeed in contacting Mr N while he was out of the country. But thats 
because it didnt have  alternative contact details  and didnt know  he was going  away. 
Kensington tried to phone  Mr N, but it says his mobile wasnt answered  and there  was no 
option to leave a voicemail.  
Mr N says he travelled abroad on 24 July. But Kensington had written to him on 12 July 
saying that it had instructed solicitors to enforce the possession  order.  Mr N acknowledges in 
his letter  to Kensington of 1 January 2019  that he received that letter. In these 
circumstances I cant fairly hold Kensington responsible for the fact that the county court  
bailiff attended the property to give possession  when Mr N was abroad.
That the court should enforce the possession order while  Mr N was abroad  was highly and 
extremely unfortunate, but Im not persuaded that Kensington  did anything wrong. It had the 
courts permission to issue a warrant and was entitled to do so, it gave Mr N advance  notice 
of what it was doing, and it didnt know he was away..
Nor can I see that it was Kensingtons  fault that Mr N didnt recover  his belongings. It left a 
notice which  he saw before the belongings were disposed of, and told him who to contact to 
arrange collection. It gave  plenty of notice that the property would be cleared.
Mr N also complains about  overcharged management fees and incorrect  calculation of the 
arrears. Our adjudicator said:
I can see that youve raised concerns over the figures presented to you in July 2018, which 
you say amounted to £3,800. I would like to make  you aware  that we dont  audit accounts  
Ref: DRN39861155and if you wish to dispute how your account  has been administered then this is something 
you may wish to do by appointing  someone  suitably qualified which  may be a cost to you. If 
there are any errors, then you may want to present your findings to Kensington directly  so it 
can investigate the evidence you provide.
Its a matter for Mr N whether he wishes to seek accountancy advice in order to dispute  
Kensingtons calculations. He isnt obliged to. But although this issue was touched  upon in 
Mr Ns complaint to Kensington dated  1 January  2019 and its reply dated 6 March 2019, it 
hasnt been explored. By this I mean that Mr N hasnt said what figures or charges he 
disputes or on what grounds, or where Kensington has got it wrong. In these circumstances 
theres no evidence  on which  I can make any decision on these  issues. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3986115