K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the way U K Insurance Limited recorded  a claim she made under her 
home insurance policy.
background
Mrs S has a home  insurance  policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI) covering buildings and 
contents. She made a claim when water  overflowed  from her neighbours gutters  during  very 
heavy rainfall and damaged her house.
UKI settled  the claim and paid for the damage  to be repaired. 
Mrs S later considered buying her insurance  from elsewhere rather than renewing her policy  
with UKI. 
When she made some enquiries  with other  insurers, she says she was told her premiums  
would be higher because UKI had recorded  the claim as being  due to an escape  of water 
rather than the result of a storm. She says they also said future claims relating to an escape 
of water might not be allowed.
Mrs S was also concerned that her policy with UKI had an excess of £350 for claims relating 
to escape of water, but only £100 for claims relating  to storm damage. She believes the 
damage to her property  was the result  of a storm rather than an escape of water.
At Mrs Ss request, UKI confirmed for her in writing that the claim could have been classified 
as storm damage.  At the time, she wanted  to pass this on to other  insurers  in the hope 
theyd take it into account when giving  her a quote for insurance.
UKI have  admitted this was an error  and that Mrs S was provided with inaccurate  
information at the time. They now maintain that the claim was accurately recorded as being  
the result  of an escape of water.
Mrs S complained to UKI. They upheld the complaint on the basis  theyd  given her 
inaccurate information. And they paid her the difference (£250) between  the excess she paid 
 for an escape of water claim  and the excess she would have paid had the claim been  for 
storm damage.
Mrs S had in the meantime renewed her policy with UKI. And they also pinned  the excess in 
her policy for escape of water claims at £350,  rather than raise it to £450 as they would 
otherwise have done.
Mrs S wasnt  happy with the outcome  because  UKI said they wouldnt also reclassify  the 
claim as a storm-related  claim.  So she complained to us. Our investigator  looked into it and 
whilst she thought the amount UKI had paid to Mrs S was fair  and she agreed with their 
decision to keep the excess on the policy at £350  she thought  UKI should reclassify the 
claim and record it as being related to storm damage.
UKI disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34058052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI have  already refunded £250 to Mrs S  and kept her excess  for escape of water at the 
same level on the renewed  policy. I understand Mrs S is happy about that. So my decision is 
simply about how the claim is classified and recorded.
There are some facts about the incident which led to the claim which  arent disputed. Its 
accepted that there was extreme rainfall  on the day in question.  The area where  Mrs S lives 
was subject to a Meteorological Office  flood warning at the time.
Its also accepted  that the damage occurred  when water overflowed from the gutters above 
Mrs Ss utility  room and infiltrated the property.
Mrs S says this was wholly or primarily due to the excessive  rainfall. She says the gutters 
and downpipe  simply couldnt cope with the volume  of water and this inevitably spilled over 
the edge of the gutters  which  were of the usual open, semi-circular design.
If that were the case then the dominant cause of the damage would be storm and the claim 
should be classified  as such by UKI.
UKI say the overflow was caused by a blockage in the gutters and/or downpipe  caused  by 
debris accumulating there from the roofs  above.
They say this means the dominant cause of the damage was not the storm itself but the 
blocked gutters and/or pipes. The implication being  that the heavy rainfall didnt cause  the 
fundamental problem,  but simply acted to bring  to light a pre-existing issue   the blocked  
gutters / pipes.
Ill come  back  to the evidence for each of these  arguments shortly,  but first Id like to be clear  
about what the policy itself says.
Its very clear from the policy wording  (at Section 1, Buildings) that it covers both storm 
damage and escape  of water (or oil) from fixed water and heating systems. Theres  no 
further definition  of either term that helps me very much  in this case.
UKI have  drawn  our attention to their own internal guidance. This does attempt to define 
fixed water or heating  installations / systems . These, it says,  are systems or appliances 
which use running water  and (are) generally  plumbed in.
The guidance goes  on to give examples of such installations or systems. These include  as 
one might expect  central heating systems,  water supply systems, dishwashers, washing 
machines etc. And also, at the bottom  of this list, gutters / downpipes . 
I have to say, given the definition set out before  the examples, I find the inclusion of gutters 
and downpipes  in this list rather odd. They certainly dont use running water  - and theyre 
not plumbed in. 
Ref: DRN34058053I also bear in mind that this is internal guidance only. Its not available to customers. And it 
doesnt justify  UKI interpreting terms in their policies in a way that wouldnt be understood or 
recognised by customers.
So, Im not entirely  convinced that the most  natural reading of the policy would lead anyone 
outside UKI to the conclusion that Mrs S had suffered  an escape of water from a fixed water 
or heating  system when her gutters  overflowed.
I think its difficult now to determine what caused the overflow  of water.  UKI say they had a 
video film of work carried out after the incident showing that the gutters  and/or downpipes 
had to be cleaned  and unblocked. Thats recorded  in their contact notes, but the video  is no 
longer available. 
They also say Mrs Ss initial call to their claims line was recorded   and in that, she says that 
there is debris from the roofs  in the gutters.  Again,  that recording is no longer available.
Mrs S has told us that she had work carried out the day before the storm which  meant any 
debris was cleared from her own roof  and from the part of her neighbours roof the 
workmen could reach. 
I dont think Mrs S would  deny there may have been some debris in the gutters or 
downpipes, but her view is that this would not have been the primary cause  of the overflow,  
which she states was simply due to the volume of water  entering  the gutters from the roofs.
She points  out that the gutters and downpipes were perfectly adequate to deal with normal  
rainfall prior to the storm and afterwards.  And I note that the work by UKIs  contractors to 
clear the debris  from the gutters and downpipes wasnt carried  out until around a week  after 
the incident which led to the claim.
So, on balance  and in the absence of any definitive evidence  to prove either case  Im 
satisfied that the dominant cause of the overflow  was most likely the very heavy rainfall 
rather than a blockage  in the gutters and/or downpipes.
Bearing this in mind   and taking into account  the fact that UKIs escape  of water cover  is 
defined in the policy as relating to escapes from fixed  water  and heating systems  I think 
UKI should reclassify  Mrs Ss claim as relating to storm  damage.
Ref: DRN34058054my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
U K Insurance Limited should reclassify Mrs Ss claim as being related to storm damage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3405805