K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that A J Bell Management  Limited failed to provide  clear information on what  
documentation was required to open  a Lifetime  ISA (LISA). This led to the account opening 
process being delayed and Mr C missing out on the opportunity to make  a contribution  for 
the 2017/18 financial year and benefitting  from a 25% government bonus. 
background
Mr C approached A J Bell in mid to late March 2018  with some queries concerning its LISA  
product. Once  these  were answered  he started  the on-line application process on 3 April 
2018. He was asked to upload copies of his passport  and driving licence but once hed done  
so he received an email  indicating  that before A J Bell could  complete  the application it 
needed to confirm Mr Cs identity and/or verify  his residence at the address hed provided. 
Over the next few days Mr C spoke with A J Bell about the matter and attempts were made 
to overcome an apparent  problem  with the documents. It seems that an eventual  manual 
check identified that the problem lay with Mr Cs driving licence, as it didnt include his 
address. Once  the issue was rectified the account was opened.  But by this time, 10 April 
2018, the new financial year had started  and Mr C was no longer able to make  the intended 
£4,000 contribution for 2017/18
Mr C made  a complaint  to A J Bell but it didnt uphold it. In short, it felt the information it had 
provided about the account opening  process and associated requirements  was generally 
clear and it had acted in a timely  manner. 
Mr C didnt accept this and referred  the complaint to this service. But our investigator also 
didnt think it should be upheld. He explained that he could see points in the process where 
things probably  couldve  been made clearer. But ultimately he felt A J Bell had not acted 
incorrectly. 
The investigator was also conscious that the application had been submitted at a very busy  
time, allowing very little flexibility  in the event of any problem. So, in any event,  it might  well 
have been the case that the LISA  wouldnt have been opened by the end of the financial 
year. 
As Mr C didnt  agree, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
A J Bell has explained that when Mr L started his application on 3 April 2018  he initially  failed 
a background  credit  reference agency check. As a result, he was asked to electronically 
submit copies of his passport and driving  licence. He did so, but the check  could still not be 
passed. 
Ref: DRN31751682He was then sent an email  that explained what documents were required. Mr L has pointed 
out that receipt of this email  didnt make it particularly clear  what had happened and could 
easily have been  mistaken for a standard automated reminder. But the email did explain that 
the document intended to evidence  residency  needed to show a current address. As 
Mr L was effectively using  his driving license for this purpose this is where the problem lay, 
as the license didnt show his address. 
As a result of the problems he was encountering, Mr C emailed A J Bell on 3 April 2018 and 
over the next couple of days there were a number  of phone calls and emails between  the 
parties trying to sort the matter out. Eventually  a manual check  was carried out and A J Bell 
was able to open the account. However,  by this point  10 April 2018   the new financial 
year had started and it was too late for Mr C to make an ISA contribution  for the 2017/18 
financial year. 
I can understand Mr Cs frustration with the situation. From the information Ive seen  I dont 
think it was always made  entirely clear  what the problem was or what  additional information 
A J Bell required. But that said, on balance, I dont think theres enough  to show that there 
was a specific failure, or failures, on A J Bells part that, had they not occurred,  wouldve 
meant the account  would  definitely have been opened in time. 
A J Bell used an external credit reference  agency to carry out its checks, which  I think was 
reasonable in the circumstances and standard industry practice. Its explained that the 
information it received  from that agency  was restricted to a simple pass or fail. So there  
was a limit on what information it could give Mr C beyond reiterating  what documents  were 
acceptable. 
Mr C was using his passport and an EEA (European Economic Area) driving licence as his 
identity and address  verification documents. The latter  was generally acceptable to A J Bell 
but the information emailed to Mr C did say that where a driving licence was used for 
address verification purposes it must show the applicants current address, which  Mr Cs 
didnt.
Im conscious too that Mr C began the account  opening process on 3 April 2018, only two 
days before  the end of the financial year  a time that is traditionally  very busy for financial 
service providers. While it was theoretically possible for an account to be opened in this 
time, it didnt  allow for much flexibility in the event  of there being a problem. And problems 
with identity/address  verification are very common in this type of situation,  particularly  in light 
of the increasing  stringent money laundering regulations that businesses  have to comply 
with. 
In saying this Im in no way suggesting  that Mr C was at fault.  Im simply highlighting that to 
my mind  the problem was more a series  of unfortunate  coincidences  rather than a result of 
errors by either party. I think  both generally  acted in good faith to try and move the process 
along. And its also worth noting that the account opening process  actually only took a week,  
which is not at all unusual  and at any other time of year would  not have been a problem.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN31751683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3175168