K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that NRAM Limited placed  inaccurate information on her credit reference 
file.
background
Mrs K had two mortgages with NRAM secured  against two properties  she co-owned with a 
relative.
The properties were  rented  out. The monthly rent was paid into the relatives account and 
then used to make the mortgage payments 
Very sadly, Mrs Ks relative died suddenly  and unexpectedly in 2013. It took some time for 
Mrs K to sort out access to her relatives account, which was only to be expected  in the 
circumstances.
As a result, Mrs K missed  payments on both mortgage accounts in September and October 
2013. In November she resumed payments and caught up with the arrears. And in March  
2014 she set up a direct debit to pay the monthly  mortgage payments.
NRAM reported the missed payments in September  and October 2013 to the credit  
reference agencies.  In fact, one account  was in credit prior to September 2013, so this was 
recorded as having one months missed payments (October). The other account was 
recorded as having two months missed payments (September and October).
NRAM also recorded a missed payment on both accounts in March 2014. Mrs K set up the 
direct debit in that month, but the first payment wasnt taken until April.
Mrs K has settled  one of the mortgages.  She wants to settle the other, but says shes now 
struggling to re-finance  the property due to the adverse information on her credit file. Shes 
therefore under pressure  to sell at a time when she doesnt wish to do so given the current 
position in the housing  market.
Mrs K complained to NRA. She said it was unreasonable and unfair to report the missed  
payments taking into account  her relatives death and her circumstances at the time. And 
she pointed out shed called NRAM in September 2013 to explain her position  in full.
NRAM didnt uphold  Mrs Ks complaint. They  said they were obliged  to report  accurate 
information to the credit  reference agencies. And they said that in September  2013 when 
Mrs K called them, they offered assistance  through their financial hardship team, but Mrs K 
didnt want to talk to them at the time.
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this outcome, so she brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought  NRAM  had acted unreasonably in recording two months missed 
payments on one of the mortgages in September and October  2019. He thought  they should  
have recorded  only one months  missed  payments bearing in mind  Mrs Ks circumstances. 
But otherwise he thought  NRAM had done nothing wrong.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. She wanted NRAM to 
remove from her credit  reference file all the information relating to missed  payments in 2013 
and 2014 on both mortgages.
Ref: DRN36775912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  Mrs Ks complaint.  But Im going  to do so for the same reasons our 
investigator upheld  it. I know this will be disappointing for Mrs K, but Ill explain my reasons 
for coming  to that conclusion.
Ill start with the missed  payments in March 2014.  
Mrs K believed shed  set up a direct  debit to make payments  beginning from March.  
However, NRAM have provided a copy of a letter they sent to Mrs K in March 2014.  This 
clearly says that the first direct debit  payment  will be taken  in April 2014 and it clearly states 
that Mrs K should ensure she makes  any payments  due before that date by other means.
I can understand how Mrs K might  have missed this  and why she assumed the direct debit 
might start earlier, given that the correspondence  about this matter  was in March.  However, I 
cant hold NRAM responsible for Mrs Ks misunderstanding. The letter  is absolutely  clear 
about when the first payment will be taken and what Mrs K needs to do before then.
So, I have to conclude  Mrs K did in fact miss her payments  in March, that was Mrs Ks 
responsibility and the information provided  by NRAM to the credit reference agencies  was 
entirely accurate.  To be fair to Mrs K, she accepted this in her response to our investigators 
opinion.
As I understand it, Mrs K may be able to add a note to her credit reference file which  
explains the circumstances  behind these missed payments.  But thats for her to take up the 
the credit  reference  agencies  if she wishes  to do so. Im satisfied NRAM havent acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in reporting  this information  to the credit  reference agencies.
I can understand Mrs Ks frustration about  the missed payments  in September and October 
2013. She was in a difficult position. And she did contact NRAM to explain her 
circumstances, which must have been difficult  for her given her recent bereavement.
I think it might have  been reasonable for NRAM to respond more sympathetically in those 
circumstances and allow Mrs K some time to get her finances in order.  They had an 
opportunity during the phone call  bearing  in mind one of the mortgages  didnt  default  in 
September because  it started that month in credit   to suggest  Mrs K make  some form of 
payment to put the other  account in credit too. 
So I agree with our investigator that NRAM ought  to have agreed a position  with Mrs K which  
avoided her going into arrears in September 2013.
However, I also have to bear in mind that NRAM did offer Mrs K assistance  through  their 
financial hardship team during that call. Mrs K said she didnt feel able to discuss her 
circumstances in that detail at the time  and I understand  that  but she could have 
contacted NRAM  again later when she felt more able to do so. Particularly  bearing in mind 
that NRAM did point  out the mortgages would go into arrears.
Ref: DRN36775913So, I agree  with our investigator that whilst it may have been  reasonable for NRAM to allow 
Mrs K some leeway through September, they might have expected her to contact them 
again by October  to discuss matters. Mrs K was aware at that time that she was missing  
payments and that the mortgages  would be in arrears.
In summary,  I think it would have been reasonable for NRAM to have reported arrears on 
both loans in October   but not on either  loan in September. I understand NRAM have  
altered Mrs Ks credit reference file to this effect  in response to our investigators view. But if 
not, they should do so now.
Mrs K hasnt asked for compensation  for any financial  or other  losses caused by this 
information being on her credit  reference file. Shes said she simply wants the information  
corrected.
I believe the relevant  information is about  to fall off Mrs Ks credit  reference file  after six 
years  in line with the usual credit reference retention  periods. So my decision that the 
information provided by NRAM should have been  slightly different isnt going  to have an 
impact for very long (if at all).
Because Im suggesting a very slight change,  I cant see that the error we say NRAM made - 
recording an extra month of arrears on one of the accounts - would have had any effect at all 
on any assessment of Mrs Ks creditworthiness  by potential lenders  in the period since  2013.
That is particularly so for most of the period in question because  Mrs K was made  bankrupt 
in 2010 and is recorded as entering  an individual voluntary  agreement  (IVA) in 2012. 
Mrs K says she didnt enter  an IVA, but thats  another matter  and nothing to do with 
NRAM. Given the information on her credit  reference files up to 2016 (the bankruptcy) and 
2018 (the IVA), I dont  think  anyone could  reasonably suggest  that NRAM entering six 
months of arrears on her mortgage accounts rather than five would  make  any effective 
difference. 
In fact, Im not sure the marginal difference in what NRAM  in fact reported  (six months 
arrears) and what we think they should  have reported (five months  arrears)  would make any 
substantive difference to a potential  lender  in any case, whether the bankruptcy  and IVA 
information was available  to them or not.
As I say, Mrs K hasnt  suggested shes lost out on any potential loans, mortgages or other 
credit as a result of NRAMs reporting. But for the sake of absolute  clarity, I cant  in any case 
see how she could justifiably make  that argument.  
Ref: DRN36775914my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint  in part.
NRAM Limited should ensure that Mrs Ks credit reference files do not report  arrears  on 
either of her mortgages  for September 2013.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677591