K820x#14complaint
Ms B and Mr H complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) refused to settle a 
claim about a failing locking mechanism made under their buildings and contents insurance 
policy.
background
Ms B and Mr H had a home insurance  policy with RSA. It covered buildings and contents.  
The locking system  on a rear external door stopped  working. The door had been installed by 
the vendors when Ms B and Mr H bought  the flat in 2013. Itd begun to develop a number of 
problems which made it difficult  to open  and close. And theyd recently had to be quite 
forceful when using the door.
Ms B and Mr H said the lock totally failed in June 2018. The door wouldnt lock any more.  A 
locksmith replaced the mechanism and said the fault had been caused  by a failure of the 
lock parts.  It hadnt  been caused  by a person or wear and tear. RSA didnt consider the 
damage to be accidental. But Ms B and Mr H are unhappy with the way RSA has defined 
accidental damage.  They  believe the claim should  be covered. So they want  a full refund of 
the repairs totalling just over £500.
RSA said there wasnt an insurable event.  The policy didnt cover repairs of mechanical 
breakdowns. RSA said the damage  couldnt  be considered accidental. Ms B and Mr H said 
theyd had to open and close the door quite forcefully. So they knew there  was a problem. 
But RSA accepted theyd been  unable to lock the door. And that was a security  risk which  
needed an urgent  response. So itd offered  £200 to Ms B and Mr H under the home  
emergency clause  of their policy.
Ms B and Mr H werent satisfied with RSAs response. So they contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He said RSA had relied on the wording in the policy 
document which excluded certain events from being covered. This included  the cost of 
repairing mechanical breakdown. And he felt Ms B and Mr H were aware there were ongoing 
problems with the lock. Theyd had a specialist try and fix it previously. So although  they may 
not have known the extent of the problem they were  aware there was a fault. 
Our investigator could  see Ms B and Mr H were  unhappy with the definition of accidental  
damage used by RSA.  But he couldnt tell the business to change the wording or their terms 
and conditions. That wasnt  something  our service could do. So he felt the payment of £200  
offered by RSA for the home emergency  cover was an appropriate response in the 
circumstances. Ms B and Mr H didnt agree. They said the ongoing problems with the door 
werent necessarily causally linked to the sudden failure of the locking mechanism. Earlier  
problems had been solved by re-hanging the door. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B and Mr H are unhappy with the way RSA has defined accidental  damage and 
mechanical breakdown.  They argue that accidental damage and mechanical breakdown 
arent mutually exclusive.  The first can lead to the second. They say the failure of the rear 
Ref: DRN35111332door lock was accidental and that its cause was sudden and remains  unknown. It wasnt 
intended or expected. So Ive looked carefully  at everything thats happened to see if RSA 
has made a mistake.  And if so what it needs to do to put things right.
As our investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to tell RSA how to run its 
business. Thats the role of its regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. So I cant look at 
the wording RSA uses in its policy documents. I can only see if RSA has applied  the terms of 
the policy fairly and reasonably.
The policy document states  Ms B and Mr H are covered for accidental  damage to the locks 
of external doors to a limit of £1000. But section 22 of the policy  excludes  the cost of 
repairing mechanical breakdown. And the locksmiths invoice states  the fault in the 
mechanism was due to the failure of parts.
RSA doesnt believe the problem couldve been  caused by accidental  damage.  The policy  
describes accidental damage  as sudden, unexpected and visible  damage which has not 
been caused on purpose. RSA says the damage couldnt be described as sudden  or 
unexpected. Ms B and Mr H were aware  of an ongoing problem with the door mechanism. 
And attempts had been made to resolve  the problem in the past.
I do appreciate that Ms B and Mr H believe the complete failure of the locking mechanism 
was sudden and unforeseen.  And they believe the actual cause of the failure  remains 
unknown. But Ms B and Mr H have acknowledged  they had to apply force  to close  the door 
for a number of months. So they knew there was an issue  which was unlikely to resolve  
itself.
Its possible a long-running problem may have led to the sudden failure of the lock. But I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for RSA to believe the failure was linked to the ongoing 
difficulties. The use of force to close  the door may have caused  the damage to occur or 
increased the likelihood of damage over a period  of time. And I dont think it would be fair to 
say the failure  of the locking mechanism  was therefore unexpected  or sudden.
I do appreciate the difficulties caused to Ms B and Mr H when the door lock failed.  But based 
on everything Ive seen I think RSA has fairly declined the claim. RSA recognises  that when 
the door would  no longer lock it made the house insecure. And its offered to make  a 
payment of £200  under the home emergency  assistance section of the insurance policy. I 
think thats a reasonable response in the circumstances. And I wont be asking  RSA to do 
anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3511133