K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains as director of W, a limited  company,  that it was sold a professional indemnity 
(PI) policy underwritten by Hiscox  Insurance  Company Limited through its broker that was 
substantially more expensive than a policy available online  with Hiscox.
background
In 2010, through its broker, T, W bought a PI policy underwritten by Hiscox.  The initial 
premium in 2010 was £1,656. It had the policy up until 2016 when W paid £1,732.  In 2017, 
W was quoted  £1,762  for renewal. The figures all include a significant  brokers  commission. 
Mr P checked online in 2017 and found that Hiscox  was selling the same policy directly for 
£257. He opted to continue with the policy with Hiscox at the lower price.
Mr P complained to Hiscox that it had overcharged  W for the same policy through  the broker  
when it was offering  that policy online for a considerably lower price. Hiscox  explained  that 
its direct  business and its broker business  are separate, having different underwriting 
acceptance criteria and different pricing  structures.  Its direct  business is offered on a non-
advised basis whereas customers who choose to use a broker  may do so for a variety of 
reasons, including the fact that this is an advised  service. It acknowledged that the premium 
quoted by its direct channel was significantly lower than the premium W had been paying  for 
its broker policy. This was due to a combination  of the different pricing structures  in place for 
broker and direct policy channels and the fact that policy ratings have changed  since  the 
policy incepted.  
Hiscox declined to offer any refund of premiums. It explained  that as a continuous policy  W 
accepted the terms and conditions along with the pricing structure which  didnt alter from 
year to year. Mr P didnt accept that  he pointed out that T had told him it wasnt aware of 
the difference in price between the two policies and that T was astonished when it found out 
what the difference was.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that in light of the great difference between  the 
prices of the broker and online policies, Hiscox hadnt acted fairly in not highlighting the 
availability of the online policy  to Mr P or T. I said that I thought that the two policies  were  
broadly similar. I thought  that the base price of Mr Hs policy should have been £350.  And I 
proposed that Hiscox refund the difference  between that and the premiums  paid by W for the 
years 2010  to 2016, plus interest
Hiscox responded  to my provisional decision, and Ill set out that response in my findings 
below. But essentially as a result of that response I said that my findings would remain the 
same, except that the base price  for the policy should be £500.  Hiscox advised it was 
prepared to agree that.
Mr P queried whether the premiums refund  as proposed, included  insurance premium tax. I 
advised him that I proposed to set the base premium at £500 rather  than £350.  Mr P 
indicated that if Hiscox  wasnt going to challenge this any further he wouldnt object, though 
pointed out that it was a significant increase.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37342692These were  my provisional findings:
When considering whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required  to take
into account relevant  law and regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards;  codes
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice at
the time.
relevant principles/regulations
As Im looking at a regulated insurance  contract, its also important for me to take into
account the relevant regulatory  regime that applied at the time the circumstances
complained about arose. The following are of particular relevance to this complaint:
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (and its predecessor, the Financial Services  Authority)  
Principles for Businesses, set out in the FCA Handbook,  apply  to all authorised firms,  
including Hiscox. I have  particularly considered the following:
Principle 6 A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly. 
Principle 7 A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Further the rules  contained  in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 
rules apply, in particular:
ICOBS 2.2.2 R When a firm communicates information, including a financial promotion, to a 
customer or other policyholder, it must take reasonable steps to communicate in a way that 
is clear,  fair and not misleading.  
ICOBS 6.1.5 R A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure a customer  is given appropriate  
information about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer 
can make  an informed  decision  about  the arrangements proposed.
ICOBS 6.1.6 G The appropriate  information  rule applies pre-conclusion and post-
conclusion, and so includes  matters such as mid-term changes and renewals. It also applies 
to the price of the policy.
sale of the policy and pricing
Here the broker, T, agreed  that the price difference was very large and it wasnt  made  aware 
of it by Hiscox. On the other hand Hiscox  was well aware that the policy sold direct online 
was offered at a vastly reduced price,  yet it continued to offer the policy  at the much  higher 
price through its broker channel. Had the difference been in the low £100s, that might well 
be said to reflect the increased risk to Hiscox, coupled with the advisory service being 
offered by the broker. But the price here for the broker  policy was more  than five times the 
price of the direct policy. 
I cant see how Hiscox  can justify the higher price;  I think that allowing such a differential 
without highlighting  to the consumer the availability of its alternative direct  product wasnt  in 
compliance with its duty to be clear fair and not misleading. I also think  it took advantage  of 
Ref: DRN37342693Mr Ps lack of knowledge of the market. And it didnt consider  whether  its arrangement  with 
T, whereby it didnt  tell T or W of its online policies, was fair.
I also dont think that it being a continuous policy should have affected Hiscoxs duty to be 
clear fair and not misleading. W may well have  signed  up to a policy  with a specific  price 
structure but that structure itself, without  W being aware of (and specifically not told of) the 
alternative policy wasnt fair and reasonable. And the premium was reviewed on an annual  
basis, with documents  being sent through to T each year on the anniversary of the policy.  
I have considered whether the policy sold online was different as Hiscox has told us. The 
differences are in Ws declared turnover which was 30% less than declared for the broker 
policy, although the new policy allowed for a maximum turnover up to the declared amount in 
the broker policy. And Hiscox told us that W said for its original  policy that it had certain  
government contract work which it no longer had for the new policy. It says this would have 
added an extra premium  (although doesnt  say how much). Otherwise the level of cover  is 
the same  as for the broker policy. And Ive noted  that the new policy  has an excess of 
£1,000 compared with £2,500 for the old policy. So I dont think it can be said that the two 
policies were on the whole very much different.
loss
I have to consider  whether W lost out because of not being made aware  of Hiscoxs much 
cheaper online option. I think it likely that the online option was available  at a similar price  in 
2010 to that offered to W in 2017 and that W would  have proceeded at that price. It might  
have opted to continue to use the broker to have the benefit of its continuing  advice, but I 
wont be considering  commission here.  The price in 2017 was £257. As Hiscox wont  give us 
any calculation of the likely online price in previous years, I will assess what I consider a fair 
and reasonable price  myself. Taking into account the reduced turnover and possible lack of 
government contracts, but set against  that the reduced excess, I think  a reasonable price for 
the broker policy would have been £350. So Hiscox  should, for the years 2010  to 2016 
refund to W the difference between the premiums  charged to him for those years net of the 
commission it paid T, and £350  and pay interest  on those repayments from the dates they 
were paid until repayment.
Hiscox commented firstly that the 2010 policy has significant differences  in coverage from 
the 2017 online policy. These  were  essentially:
The 2010 policy gave  retrospective coverage  back to 2006. The 2017  policy  gave 
coverage going forwards only.
The 2010 policy gave  coverage for full civil liability  as opposed to the 2017 policy 
which covered liability  for negligence  only.
Approximately 25% of Ws turnover in 2010  emanated from the USA, whereas in 
2017 this didnt apply.
In taking into account these differences and the other differences  I had taken into account,  it 
estimated it would have  charged a £1,000 premium for the direct  policy.
I have pointed out to Hiscox that the 2017  policy essentially appears to me to give broadly  
similar coverage to the 2010  policy. And that whilst I noted  its comments about the USA 
Ref: DRN37342694element of Ws turnover, both policies  had exclusions for claims emanating  from the USA or 
Canada.
But taking into account what  Hiscox  has said I dont think that £1,000 would be a reasonable 
price for the policy, especially factoring in that the 2017 policy has a much  lower excess. But 
I think a fair base price  for it is £500.  I note Hiscox accepts  this.
Turning to Hiscoxs other  points, it states  that its continuous policies represent a transfer of 
price risk from the customer to Hiscox.  And the critical point  is that, similar to a fixed rate 
mortgage, the customer has the security  of being  insulated from changes  in the market. It 
further says that the clear implication of the provisional decision is that continuous policies 
offering rate certainty  would be commercially unfeasible since firms would be unable  to 
balance the risk of market  rates  moving upwards or downwards over time.
I would comment that the continuous policy though  it has a price structure, did increase in 
price from year to year. And both parties had the right to cancel with 30 days  notice. And 
Hiscox had the right to amend terms and conditions, again with 30 days notice.  Having said 
that Im sure that for some customers a continuous policy  has benefits. But the implication of 
Hiscoxs comments  is that it should  be able to offer broadly similar alternative policies at 
much lower  prices directly  without  advising  the customers or brokers.  And I dont think  thats 
fair, nor compatible with Hiscoxs  duty to give clear  and not misleading information.
Hiscox further says that the implication of the provisional decision is that insurers  operating 
both a direct  and broker business  would  be required to provide two quotes (presumably to 
the broker) on potentially different products, terms and rating structures.  It further says that 
the customer elected to purchase a product via a broker and in doing so would have 
benefitted from their professional services.
I fully accept that some customers want the benefit  of advice from a broker. Yet it appears 
that the professional indemnity product here was the only one offered  by T, and each  year 
the terms were sent through  to W without comment. I dont think T was without fault here, 
but the evidence is that it wasnt aware of the alternative policy being offered and Hiscox 
wasnt offering that product through a broker, nor making it aware  of it. That doesnt  mean  it 
has to provide two quotes, but if the broker product is vastly different in price,  as here, it 
would be fair and reasonable to ensure the customer is made aware of the availability of 
alternative policies.
Nevertheless, the base  price I have proposed takes  into account the fact that the policies 
had some differences and that (in theory at least) W had the benefit of professional  advice 
for the 2010 to 2016 policy years. As Hiscox has agreed this base price,  I need make no 
further comment.
Mr P is concerned that any price refund may include  insurance  premium tax. That is a tax 
Hiscox will be responsible for paying  direct to the tax authorities, so if any tax is due or 
refundable it should deal with that. It shouldnt affect  W.
Finally, whilst I have  taken into account that this was a broker  policy,  I havent taken into 
account any commission figures. Any figure  quoted in my decision is net of any commission.
Overall, apart from the change in the base  price of the policy,  I confirm that my provisional 
findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
Ref: DRN37342695my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Hiscox Insurance Company Limited  to repay  to W for the 
years 2010  to 2016 inclusive the difference between  the premiums  paid, net of Ts 
commission, by W, and £500  together with simple interest* at 8% a year from the dates of 
payment of each years  premium until it repays W.
*HM Revenue and Customs may require  Hiscox  Insurance Company Limited to take tax off 
any interest it pays to W. Should W request it, Hiscox Insurance  Company Limited should 
give W a certificate showing  how much  tax (if any) it has taken off so it can reclaim it if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
W to accept or reject  my decision before  26 August 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3734269