K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited didn't pay his guaranteed asset 
protection (GAP) insurance  claim.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Mr A bought a car on finance and at the same time took out a GAP policy.  He later gave the 
car to his dad, Mr K1, but Mr A continued  to pay the finance. A named driver  on Mr K1s 
policy, Mr K2, had an accident  while driving  the car. The car was a total loss. The third party 
drivers insurer  settled Mr K1s claim for the loss of the car and Mr A claimed  on his GAP  
policy for the difference between the total loss settlement and the purchase price of his car. 
Ageas refused his claim. Mr A didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. Our 
investigator thought  Ageas had dealt  with Mr A fairly. Mr A didn't agree so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr A has made a number of detailed points and I've considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in his decision I will focus on what I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our investigators  assessment of Mr As complaint. Mr A has 
also commented on the sale of the policy. But the policy was sold by a broker, a car 
dealership, which is a separate business from Ageas. So Ageas isn't responsible for the sale 
of the policy  and I don't intend to comment on that within  this decision.  
Mr As GAP policy says that the car insured  on it must  also be insured under a 
comprehensive motor  policy.  But it says that such cover must not be any type of motor 
trade insurance. The comprehensive policy Mr K1 insured the car on was his motor trade 
insurance policy. That policy covered the car for both motor trade and social  use. Similarly, 
Mr K2 was covered  on the policy for both motor trade and social use. But the fact remains  
that the policy was a motor trade  policy and as such meant that Mr As car was excluded 
from the GAP cover.  
Mr A doesn't think it was fair for Ageas to turn down his claim because he said that his dad 
only used the car for social purposes. But I don't think  that matters.  When  designing their 
policies insurers will think about what risks theyre prepared to cover.  And they will factor  in 
the types of customer  they wish to offer their policies to and the class  of use of the cars they 
wish to insure. And, its certainly  not unusual for insurers to consider people in certain  
professions to present  a higher risk than others.  So it's not uncommon for insurers  to decline 
to offer cover to people in certain professions. And as long as they treat people  fairly that's 
something insurers are entitled  to do.
Mr As policy  is clear  that a car insured under a motor trade policy  falls outside  the terms of 
the GAP cover. Thats a decision Ageas is entitled to arrive at when deciding what  risks its 
prepared to accept.  So if Ageas doesn't  want to cover cars insured on motor trade polices 
then it doesn't  have  to.
Ref: DRN32842482Mr A said that he hasn't  seen this term in any other GAP policy. But that doesn't mean that 
its inherently unfair. As I've said above  its for each individual insurer  to decide what risks it 
does or doesn't wish to cover. So the fact that an insurer doesn't wish to cover a specific risk 
doesn't mean its acting unfairly. But in any event I'm aware that there  are GAP policies 
offered by other  insurers that have similar  exclusions. So I think  Ageas has acted 
reasonably.
Mr A said the he didn't  ever receive  the policy documents.  Ageas has shown us evidence  
from its system  that its sent those to him in April 2016. Mr A said he doesn't  recognise the 
email address Ageas sent the documents to. That email address was provided by the broker  
so I can't hold Ageas responsible if that is wrong.  But even if that email  address was wrong 
Ageas has said that it also posted  the policy documents to Mr As home address. So he 
should have received those. Mr As said that Ageas  evidence of sending the documents, a 
system entry, doesnt prove that they were posted.  But I wouldnt expect a business to be 
able to provide  proof of physically putting  letters in the post, especially so long after the 
event, as to be able to do so for every policyholder would be an expensive  administrative 
burden. But Im satisfied  from Ageas  system records that it did send the documents.   
Mr As added that Ageas initially told him that it was the brokers responsibility to send the 
documents and that it didnt do that itself. So in providing evidence that in fact it sent the 
documents itself its now changing its story.  While it certainly wasnt  helpful that Ageas 
initially gave  Mr A incorrect information, that doesnt mean that it didnt send the documents  
to his home address. And if Mr A didnt receive  those he could have asked Ageas for a copy 
of them.
It follows that I think Ageas decision to refuse  Mr As GAP claim was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3284248