K820x#14complaint
Miss M says The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss M bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint because:
 I think RBS made Miss M aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to take 
it. I say this because she did tick the box on the credit card application form to show 
that she wanted the cover.
 RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. Miss M had to decide that for herself.
 Its possible the information RBS gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But its unlikely Miss M would  have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  RBS didnt tell Miss M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN32073172my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back  to Miss M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207317