K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that when they paid a cheque into their Teachers Building 
Society account it couldnt paid in due to the poor image quality of the cheque.
background
In March 2019 Mr and Mrs S attempted to pay a cheque from their bank account with 
another provider  (who  Ill refer to as their Bank) to their Teachers Building Society account 
(the Society). Soon after they received a letter to explain their cheque  hadnt been cashed,  
due to the poor image quality of the cheque. They also received a similar  letter from their 
Bank.
The Society explained that the cheque they wanted to pay in included  an image on the front 
and when it was scanned the image presented darker and obscured what  theyd written on 
the cheque.
Mr S also contacted his Bank. His Bank thought  it was the Societys fault. His Bank 
suggested the Society should photograph cheques  rather  than scan them to avoid the 
problem.
Mr S fed this back to the Society. The Society  said its systems didnt allow cheques to be 
photographed. The Society suggested that Mr and Mrs S could ask their Bank  to provide 
them with a cheque  book compliant with the cheque  imaging system. Mr S says he was told 
this wasnt possible.  As an alternative the Society  suggested that Mr and Mrs S could issue 
cheques outside  the area covered by the image.
Mr and Mrs S dont  want to adopt  this method  of writing cheques  generally. Mr and Mrs S 
would like our service  to ensure theyre able to pay cheques between their accounts as 
they would  normally  would.
Unhappy with the impasse Mr and Mrs S referred  their complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator explained that our service cant impose  procedural changes on businesses or 
undertake general  reviews of their practices.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
Society had offered reasonable  alternatives to enable  Mr and Mrs S to pay in cheques  in 
the future.  But he noted Mr and Mrs Ss concerns about the unconventionality of this 
remedy.
Mr and Mrs S disagree with the investigators view. They dont think they should have to 
write out a cheque  in a different way so theyve  asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must firstly explain that Im only looking at the actions of the Society here. Ive given details 
of the Banks  involvement to provide some context  but nothing  in this decision is binding on 
the Bank.
Ref: DRN32404072I must also explain  that we resolve  complaints by customers about financial businesses by 
looking at what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But we have no 
regulatory or disciplinary  role over those businesses. Thats the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority as regulator.
For the purposes of this complaint this means I cant require the Society to photograph 
cheques rather than scan them. So what I have to think  about here is whether the actions 
taken by the Society are a fair and reasonable resolution of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint taking 
into account the impact  this has had on them.
I think the actions  taken by the Society were  reasonable in the circumstances. The Society  
suggested that Mr and Mrs S should contact their Bank to see if it could provide a cheque  
book without the image. Mr S was told this wasnt possible. As an alternative the Society  
suggested they could write further  cheques outside the area covered  by the image.  I 
realise this isnt acceptable  to Mr and Mrs S but as Ive explained above I cant  require the 
Society to change its processes.
I can understand that Mr and Mrs S were inconvenienced to some degree when their 
cheque wasnt processed but I dont think this has had a significant  impact on them.  I say 
this because Mr S explained  that hes previously been able to pay cheques from his Bank 
account into his account with the Society. Mr S has also told us that when he reissued a 
new cheque to the Society  it was accepted. The Society also agreed  that if Mr and Mrs S 
were to issue a new cheque theyd arrange  an interest adjustment so they werent 
financially disadvantaged.
In the circumstances I think the Society acted fairly and reasonably  so I wont be asking it 
to do anything more .
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3240407