K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold  payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to Miss I. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken  responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2000 alongside a store credit account. 
Miss I was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Miss I disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Miss I has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. I will 
explain why.
The form, which Miss I filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you 
make by signing in a box. So I think Miss I will have known she was taking  PPI and that she 
had a choice about taking  it  even though she may not now remember so many years  later.  
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended  the PPI as being particularly suitable for Miss Is 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Miss I to decide  whether  it was suitable.
However AXA did need to give Miss I clear and fair information, so she could make  an 
informed choice. And I dont have  clear evidence it did do this properly  at least the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other information was 
given to Miss I. Miss I has suggested there  wasnt any mention of the PPI. So Ive thought 
about whether  better information  is likely to have  made a difference. But in Miss Is 
circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont 
think its likely to have made a difference to her decision. I say this because  Miss I had little 
entitlement to employer  sick pay and no savings. And even if she did have employer 
entitlements, the PPI benefits would  have been in addition  to any employer  sick pay or 
redundancy pay, and probably would  have lasted longer. Also it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  Miss I has mentioned  a 
health problem,  but it looks likely this arose after she took this PPI out. So, overall, the PPI is 
likely still to have seemed potentially useful at the time she agreed to it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Miss Is complaint.
Ref: DRN37128302Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3712830