K821x#15complaint
Mrs T has complained Clydesdale Bank PLC wont refund £10,000  which she didnt 
authorise. She believes they should have done  more to protect her.
background
After the death  of her husband, Mrs T arranged for her daughter, Miss T, to be given a debit 
card on her current  account with Clydesdale as a third party.  This was in November 2015. 
Clydesdale explained  Mrs T authorised the issue of a debit card to her daughter so she 
could undertake day to day transactions. Its also clear that a third-party mandate on a 
Clydesdale account  authorises the use of a card by that person  in this case  Mrs Ts 
daughter. It also requires the bank to honour those transactions.
As Mrs Ts health declined,  her son got a Power  of Attorney set up for his mother. He 
became concerned at some of the activity on his mothers account. Specifically,  some larger-
scale withdrawals so he asked his mother about  these. This included  a withdrawal on 
24 November 2015 for £1,000 which Mrs T confirmed shed made and signed for. She didnt 
know about the transaction on 18 December 2015 when £10,000 was withdrawn in cash  in a 
branch. This was done by Miss T using her own card.
Clydesdale said there was nothing wrong with this transaction. Theyd been required to 
honour the withdrawal  as it was made  by Miss T in line with the third-party mandate.  Mr C, 
Mrs Ts son who holds  the Power of Attorney, was unhappy with this. He didnt believe 
Clydesdale had done enough  to check the transaction.  Itd only been  verified  by chip and 
PIN with Clydesdale doing  no other checks. As Clydesdale would do nothing  further,  he 
brought his mothers  complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included the fact that there was no copy of the 
actual mandate  held by Mrs Ts daughter. Overall and taking all circumstances into account,  
he didnt believe Clydesdale had done enough when  considering  Mrs Ts complaint. He 
asked them to refund  £10,000 along with 8% simple interest per year.
Clydesdale strenuously  defended what had happened. They  felt Mrs T had authorised the 
withdrawal and they had no choice but to honour Miss Ts withdrawal. They  asked an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 15 January 2020. I also upheld the complaint but I 
expanded on the reasoning slightly.
Mr C welcomed the decision  but had a few points to re-emphasise:
His mother was in a vulnerable situation  after her husband died and had moved into 
her daughters house as she was largely housebound. This explained why shed felt 
it necessary to get a debit card for her.
Mrs T would never have thought it possible to withdraw £10,000  in cash just using a 
debit card so would never have thought of needing to protect herself from this. For 
example, she knew when she withdrew £1,000  in cash  that she had to sign for this 
transaction.
He felt Clydesdale had failed in their duty to Mrs T by not explaining that the third 
party mandate had given unlimited  access to her account to her daughter.
Ref: DRN33312832Clydesdale queried  the payment made into Mrs Ts account at the same  time as her 
daughter withdrew  £10,000. They thought  mentioning this may remind Mrs T she gave 
authority to her daughter  to withdraw  £10,000. They  made  no further comments on the 
outcome of the complaint.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and received limited  
comment from either party, Im coming  to the same  conclusion as in my provisional decision. 
Theres little need  to amend what I previously wrote.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing specific thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. So, when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them  unless there are 
other reasons to do so.
So, we go on to consider other factors as Ive done  here. This would  include whether  this 
transaction was unusual.  And whether because of this wed expect a bank to ask further  
questions as this was being undertaken.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the transaction itself, as well as what  
evidence Clydesdale  and Mr C have given us.
Firstly, its worth saying  theres no dispute  Mrs T asked  Clydesdale  to give her daughter a 
debit card for her account. She signed a third-party mandate to this effect. Clydesdale no 
longer hold a copy of this mandate. But this fact hasnt really  played a major part in the 
decision Im making. Clydesdale have told us about the format of their third-party mandates  
at the time and what they believed they were required to do to meet them.
As Mrs T authorised her daughter to be given a debit card, she was also allowing her to use 
this card to carry out transactions. Clydesdale believe  they had no choice but to act on 
Miss Ts instruction (Ill tackle this aspect further in my decision). She used the card she held 
for Mrs Ts account  to withdraw £10,000.  They  asked her to verify this transaction  by the use 
of the genuine card and her PIN. Miss T did this. This was their process at the time to verify  
transactions of this value. Again, these facts are not in dispute. This is essentially the gist of 
Clydesdales argument. They were acting on the authority Mrs T had given to her daughter  
to undertake day to day transactions.
Clydesdale state  they often would  ask for photographic ID when handling transactions of this 
amount. I cant tell for sure  as records no longer  exist  whether they did this here.  But I 
cant see what difference this would have  made.  Nobody really disputes  that Miss T carried 
out this withdrawal.
So, Ive gone  on to consider whether this transaction was authorised. The terms of the third-
party mandate are not specific about whether there are any transactions   because  of their 
value, for example  that Clydesdale  would not allow a third party  to carry out. In the 
Ref: DRN33312833absence of this information, I suspect the answer  to this is not really.  So, because Miss T 
held a third party mandate   which Mrs T had authorised   the transaction  regardless of its 
value and because  it was carried out by the card was authorised  in Clydesdales  view.
Ive reviewed our approach on issues of apparent authority. For example even if Mrs T gave  
her authority  to Miss T to carry  out card transactions,  I accept its possible for Miss T to then 
abuse her trust and exceed her actual authority by using the card and PIN that shed been 
given to make further payments that Mrs T didnt agree to or know  about. If thats what 
happened  and based on the evidence this seems  likely  I think  the act of Mrs T in 
providing her daughter  with the card and PIN served  to, in effect, authorise the withdrawal of 
£10,000. This is even  the case when Mrs T may not have known about the withdrawal at all.
I have gone on to consider what else Clydesdale could have done  at the time of the 
withdrawal.
In doing this I have considered that Miss T had only been  set up as a third-party mandate-
holder for less than a month when she withdrew  £10,000. There was also no history  of Mrs T 
making such large withdrawals as far as Im aware. I appreciate this was shortly after 
Mrs Ts husband  had died so the use on the account may not have yet settled into a normal 
pattern. But Clydesdale knew about Mrs Ts personal circumstances so this further makes 
me think they should have done more  when Miss T withdrew £10,000.
Clydesdales argument is they were obliged  to allow Miss Ts transaction under the third-
party mandate. But I dont agree.
Banks have and do exercise  a duty of care on their customers behalf. This is often referred 
to as a Quincecare  duty. This comes from a legal decision in 1992.  As a recent legal 
discussion put it:
It implies into the contract between a bank and its customer an obligation  that the bank 
owes a duty of care not to carry out the customers order if it knows the order  to be 
dishonestly given, or shuts its eyes to obvious  dishonesty, or acts recklessly in failing to 
make inquiries
A recent Supreme Court decision  has made it clear that the Quincecare  duty is effectively a 
duty to protect  customers from themselves: the purpose of the Quincecare duty is to protect  
a banks customers from the harm caused by people for whom the customer is, one way or 
another, responsible.  The Court confirmed that the duty is an important bulwark against 
financial crime.
From early  2015 there  has been an increased  attention paid by regulators and industry  
groups on protecting vulnerable customers.  This has resulted in best practice and initiatives 
like the Banking Protocol. Most of these were in place too late to impact what  happened  here 
but its difficult to ignore  the increased  focus  being  placed on these initiatives which had 
started before the time of Miss Ts withdrawal.
Clydesdale has no branch notes from this transaction  but in all likelihood,  I think  nothing  was 
said or asked of Miss T when she completed this withdrawal. Theyve certainly not 
suggested otherwise.
I believe Clydesdale could  have exercised  caution  here. They then could have checked with 
Mrs T about the withdrawal. Theres no indication  that Mrs T was unable  to make decisions.  
Ref: DRN33312834Its clear that it was her discussion with her son months later which alerted him to the fact 
she hadnt known  about this withdrawal.
I dont get the idea Miss T was a hardened criminal  and may just have been chancing  her 
arm. Further questioning  either by Clydesdale  or her mother  I think would have led to this 
transaction not taking place.
The key point for me is that this was a substantial withdrawal  out of character  on a new 
third-party mandate. Id have expected this to ring alarm bells for Clydesdale  too. Were not 
talking about a day to day transaction  were looking at a one-off withdrawal in cash  of 
£10,000 which would be classified as unusual even if the account holder herself had been 
withdrawing that money. Id have expected questions to have been asked and theres no 
evidence this happened.  
Overall, I think Clydesdale in failing to exercise  its duty of care properly let down Mrs T.  
Clydesdale has mentioned at the same time as the daughter withdrew £10,000,  she also 
deposited a cheque on her mothers behalf. I was aware of this. Mr C told us this cheque 
was an insurance  policy  paid out following Mrs Ts husbands death. Im not sure what  point 
Clydesdale is trying to make here  that because Mrs T knew  about the cheque being paid 
in, shed have  known about  her daughter taking out £10,000? To clear  this up, Im sure 
Mrs T knew the cheque was being  paid in but I dont think  this signifies she knew  about  the 
withdrawal. As I confirmed above, she wasnt aware about this until many months later.
I believe the right way to resolve this is for Clydesdale  to refund £10,000 to Mrs T. Theyll 
need to add 8% simple  interest per year from 18 December 2015 until the date of settlement.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Clydesdale Bank  PLC to:
Refund £10,000 to Mrs T; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 18 December  2015 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3331283