K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about advice given by Anthony Feeney Financial Services  (AFFS). That 
was to transfer his personal pension (PPP) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and 
invest into store pods. His representative  has said the advice was unsuitable and resulted in 
him incurring  unnecessary costs and holding high risk unregulated investments. 
background
Mr S was contacted about his pensions. He told us that the adviser  introduced the concept 
of investing in store pods using a SIPP.
A fact-find  was completed in August 2013. In summary this recorded that:
Mr S was 51. 
He had an income of £104 a week (£5,408 a year). In his previous job that he left in 
January 2013  he was earning £15,500 a year.
He realistically  expected to retire at age 65.
His only private pension provision  was his PPP. 
He had an Adventurous attitude  to risk. There were five risk categories going from 
Very Cautious  to Speculative . The Balanced  category was ticked but crossed 
out. It was also recorded that the Client realises  that to have enough pension  to 
enable him to retire he needs to invest in alternatives and diversify  his portfolio and is 
happy to be adventurous on this investment.
He had No investment  experience  but understands to make  his pension  grow for 
retirement he had to widen his options.
His PPP was a significant proportion of my financial wealth with which I do not 
want to take unnecessary risks. The box which recorded that the pension  was a 
major proportion  of my financial wealth  which should  be protected as far as is 
reasonably possible.  was ticked but crossed out. In the further comments section it 
recorded that the Client  knows he has to invest to increase his pension  pot and feels 
Store First is a reasonable  risk to take.  
He had an interest only mortgage  and he wanted to maximise  the lump  sum to pay it 
off. 
He was Not at all happy  with  the investment performance of your current scheme?
He likes the idea of a SIPP to help grow his pension to raise as much money as 
possible to pay off his mortgage.  
With regard to the Store First investment that the Client  prefers this type of 
investment because  of the 8% guarantees and 10% - 12% negotiated over 4 years to 
enhance his  pension.     
An illustration for the PPP was prepared based on a retirement age of 65. Assuming the mid-
rate rate of return of 5.6% a year his plan had a projected  value of £76,600. Using  a 7.1% 
return the projected value was £92,300.  
The SIPP illustration showed projected  fund values  of £65,500  and £85,400 using 5% and 
7% returns  to age 65.
A transfer  value of £40,505.40  was paid to the SIPP. Of this £36,000 was invested into store  
pods and £4,045.86 in to a Nucleus portfolio.
Ref: DRN35450872AFFS is being represented. The representative  issued the final response to the complaint. In 
summary they said that:
Mr S was referred to AFFS as a client seeking advice  about setting up a SIPP  and 
was considering investment into commercial property. 
The recommendation given was to transfer the existing  pension benefits to an 
alternative arrangement so Mr Ss pension assets can be invested within a SIPP and 
he could access 25% tax free cash.
He didnt seek advice  about the suitability of the investment and expressly  stated that 
he understood the additional risks associated  with such  an investment. But AFFS 
were aware of their obligation to review  the underlying investment. They  therefore 
carried out due diligence  on the investment to establish the risks and benefits of an 
investment into storage  pods  and discuss the suitability  of such  an investment. 
AFFS didnt provide any advice to enter  into the Store First investment. It was 
arranged on the insistence of Mr S and against  AFFSs clear  warnings.  
Mr Ss risk profile was recorded as adventurous and the report said that if this wasnt  
accurate he should contact them  as a matter of urgency. They  also said the risks 
associated with this investment  were set out and their report  concluded by 
recommending that your fund is not placed  within one asset class
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He concluded that it should be upheld.  
He explained  that:
AFFS was giving advice. The relevant  rules  at the time required AFFS to know its 
client and give suitable advice.
An alert issued by the regulator in 2013 reminded firms  of the rules. If recommending  
a SIPP  the advice had to consider the suitability of the investment. The alert 
specifically referred  to investments in store pods.
If the store pods  investment  was not suitable  this would call into question the extra  
charges incurred.
He was not persuaded that Mr S was actually an adventurous investor.  It appears  
that the fact find had been completed  with a view to justify the advice given.
Mr S had no other pension provision. Putting such a large portion of his pension in 
store pods was unsuitable. This was especially so as Mr S wanted to take his 
pension at age 55. The investment was unregulated  meaning that there was no 
access to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). This increased the 
risk to Mr S.
Some risk warnings  were provided. But providing those  risk warnings did not make  
the advice suitable.
Mr S should have been advised  against transferring his pension  to a SIPP and 
investing in store  pods. If he had been  given that advice  he would have followed it.
AFFS didnt agree. In summary, their representative  said:
AFFSs position was set out in its final response. 
In addition, they provided  legal opinion that the store pods were not a collective 
investment. AFFS relied on this as part of its due diligence about the investment.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  by the arguments. He said:
He had focused on whether the advice was suitable for Mr S rather than any due 
diligence about the investment.
Ref: DRN35450873AFFS was giving advice. The rules required the advice to be suitable whether store  
pods were regulated  or not.
He repeated his view that providing  risk warnings did not make  the advice suitable.
The report sent to Mr S recommended that he transfer to a SIPP. But suitable  advice 
should have been  not to transfer  to the SIPP.
If Mr S had been given suitable advice he would not have transferred to the SIPP or 
invested in store  pods.
The adjudicator also spoke with Mr S to establish  how he had found  out about  store  pods 
and subsequently invested  in them. Mr S initially said that he met with Anthony Feeney. 
AFFS disputed this and said no-one  from AFFS had met Mr S. The adjudicator  spoke with 
Mr S again.  This is a summary of the two conversations. Mr S explained:
An adviser called at Mr Ss house  and talked about his pension and if hed heard 
about SIPPs. Mr S said he hadnt. Initially, Mr S thought this was someone from 
AFFS. He did speak  with someone  from AFFS and assumed this was the same 
person. He didnt  have a business card for that person.
Mr S explained to the adviser that he had a mortgage so he was putting  money  away  
in a pension to pay it off when he retired. 
The adviser made it sound really good and said in the first 2 years youre guaranteed 
an 8% return, year 2 to 4 its 10% and 4 to 6 its 12%.
The adviser said to be able to take out the SIPP Mr S would have to say he was 
adventurous or high risk on the risk questionnaire, which he wasnt really comfortable 
with. 
He realised after the first year that the charges were  very high. If the store pods were 
being rented  out then maybe  hed get about  £240 every four months.  But when the 
fees come off hed only get about £150. The adviser told him all the good points but 
he didnt tell him about the fees and all the downsides. And now he cant get out of it.
He has been  a carer for the last 6 years, hes on benefits and he had some credit 
card bills. He thought at 55 hed use the lump sum to pay off his credit cards and 
have a bit of money. He had £36,000  in pods and £6,000 in a high interest account. 
He phoned AFFS  about a year ago. He asked  if he could  take money out. He was 
told he can. But the only thing he could take was the £6,000  in a bank account. He 
asked to close it down.  But he got a letter from the SIPP provider saying  he had to 
keep £3,000 in an account  to cover bills. 
He ended up with just less than £3,000. He was grateful for this as it allowed him to 
clear his credit cards. But AFFS didnt say to him that he had to keep this £3,000  in 
the SIPP. So its been stressful for him. Its the worst thing hes ever done.
There was reference to another firm on the file. Mr S said the name sounded familiar.
He would have  stayed where he was if advised not to transfer. He said he was in a 
private pension  for the last 14/15  years. It was only because of AF putting the idea of 
the SIPP into his head that led to him investing.
He didnt receive any money or incentive  payments to invest  into the store  pods. 
The file has now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN35450874our jurisdiction
AFFS was giving advice  to start a SIPP. That is a regulated activity. We can therefore 
consider a complaint about the advice to start the SIPP. It does not matter whether the store 
pods are a UCIS or not. This is a complaint  that we can consider.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that the firm had to obtain enough information 
about Mr Ss circumstances.
who did Mr S speak  with?
Mr S initially  said to the adjudicator that an adviser  from AFFS  went  to his house. AFFS 
denied this. I think its unlikely that anyone from AFFS  met with Mr S. I say this as an 
unregulated firm is referred to in some of the documentation. I think its most  likely that it was 
an unregulated  individual  who met with Mr S. Im satisfied  that Mr S was initially  mistaken 
about who had visited him.
what should the adviser have done?
However, I do not think it matters whether AFFS met with Mr S or not. The adviser  was 
required to give suitable advice. To do that the adviser had to have enough information to 
know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about  the intended investment. I cannot see 
how suitable advice  can be given without thinking about that investment. Thats  the key 
message from the regulators alert issued in January 2013. 
AFFS knew that Mr S intended to invest in store pods. They should have considered 
whether that was suitable for him.
AFFS says that the adviser did set out some risks of investing in store pods in his suitability 
report. These were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
schemes assets brings considerable risk.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
Ref: DRN35450875The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. 
Im satisfied that the investment  in store pods was a high risk investment. They  were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mr S. 
I am satisfied that Mr S thought the store pod investment  would improve  the pension he 
would receive. 
I think that given  a realistic assessment of his attitude to risk as balanced, or medium,  that a 
standard personal pension would have been suitable for his needs. I think  the extra charges 
normally associated with a SIPP were not justified.  I think  suitable advice should have been 
not to invest in store pods. If that advice had been given I do not see any reason why Mr S 
would have transferred  to a SIPP.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr S into to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr S would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Ss circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
what should  AFFS do?
To compensate Mr S fairly,  AFFS  must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown.  If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there  is a loss, AFFS should  ideally pay an amount into Mr Ss pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow  for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
I think its unlikely AFFS will be able to pay the compensation into Mr Ss pension  
plan. So, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided  a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation 
should be reduced to notionally  allow for any income  tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Ss expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. I think Mr S is unlikely to pay tax in retirement. I say this as he is on 
benefits and unlikely to receive his state pension for some time. The income he could 
take is likely to be within  his personal allowance. If AFFS wishes  to reduce the 
compensation to allow  for any tax they should provide evidence to show that it is 
likely Mr S would  pay tax on the income  had it been in a pension.
Ref: DRN35450876It is very likely that Mr S will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of time as the 
store pods cannot be sold,  which  will prevent the SIPP  from being  closed. If the firm 
is unable to buy the store pods from the SIPP provider,  they should  pay Mr S five 
years worth  of SIPP fees to compensate  him for these costs.  
Pay Mr S £300 for the distress caused by the loss to his pension  funds. This is at a 
time where he wanted to access the benefits  to pay off debts.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
payment 
AFFS should add interest  as set out above.  Income  tax may be payable  on any interest  paid. 
If AFFS deducts income tax from the interest,  it should tell Mr S how much has been  taken 
off. AFFS should give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The 
firm should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
AFFS may require that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay the firm any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing money from the pension plan. AFFS will need to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
Ref: DRN35450877The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Anthony  Feeney Financial Services must now calculate whether Mr S 
has suffered a loss. If there is a loss, compensation should be paid as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545087