K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr T have  complained about  QIC Europe Ltd. They  arent happy about the delay in 
repairing their car after a claim under their motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr T was involved in an accident in November 2018  which he reported to QICs agent. The 
repairs were authorised, and the car went in for repair in December 2018. They were 
provided with a hire car in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
The repair of the car was delayed as it had to be looked at by a specialist and was 
eventually returned  late January 2019.  And even then, it wasnt fully repaired and had to be 
returned. There was some dispute  as to whether this damage was accident related but QIC 
eventually agreed  the repair.
The car was repaired  and returned.  But Mr and Mrs T werent happy  about the delays and 
complained to QIC who offered £150 in acknowledgement of the delay. But they complained 
to this service as they remained unhappy.
Our investigator looked into things for them  but didnt uphold  their complaint. She 
acknowledged that QIC had delayed the repair of the car but thought  its offer of 
compensation was fair.
As Mr and Mrs T didnt agree the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. I know Mr and Mrs T wont be happy about this and I agree that they have faced 
inconvenience and delay, but I think QICs offer of compensation is fair.
I have looked  at the initial repair and although it took a while, I think  QICs repairers actions 
were reasonable. The actual  repair time was drawn  out, but the repair  was delayed by a leak 
and the car having to be taken off site to a specialist  which was unavoidable. But Mr and 
Mrs T were in a hire car at that time which limited  the impact of the delays.
However, I do agree that the car was returned  when it wasnt  fully repaired which must have 
been inconvenient, especially when QIC initially argued that the outstanding repair  wasnt  
related to the accident when it was clear it was. Im pleased  QIC looked to put this right 
quickly (but it did ask for a diagram of the incident in order to decide, which further 
inconvenienced Mr and Mrs T) but it offered £150  compensation  and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances.
I can understand why Mr and Mrs T would  like more  compensation, but this is in line with the 
kind of award I would ordinarily make in circumstances like this. They would also like their 
vehicle finance  repayments refunded. But they would have had to make  these in any event, 
and they had use of a car provided by QIC throughout  so I dont think this would be fair.
So, although  I agree  that QIC could have dealt with the claim and repairs  better I think its 
offer of £150 compensation is fair.
Ref: DRN30941562my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094156