K820x#14I wrote  to both parties with my provisional  decision on 14 May 2021 and both parties
have now responded. Bank of Scotland accepted my provisional  decision, but
Miss M and Mr R did not. Ive now reviewed  the responses of Miss M and Mr R and will set 
out my final decision below.
Miss M and Mr R were both parties to a mortgage but are now separated.  Miss M has 
brought the complaint - with Mr Rs authority  so Ill mostly refer only to her throughout my 
decision.
Complaint
Miss M complains about Bank of Scotland Plcs  (BoS) handling of her mortgage.  The main 
issues are:
The time taken for BoS to add her name  to the mortgage;
BoSs handling of her application for a new product;
BoS wouldnt allow her further  borrowing to fulfil her requirement to repay the shared 
equity portion of her property purchase arrangement.
Background
In 2009 Mr R took out a mortgage  with BoS for £163,500, over a 25 year term and on a 
capital repayment  basis. The property was sold to him on a shared  equity  basis,  meaning 
the builder would have a charge over the property. In practice, the builder  provided  an 
equity loan, repayable at a set time in the future  February 2019. The amount to be repaid 
was 25% of the value of the property at that time.  The balance of the purchase  was funded 
by the mortgage from BoS.
The builder  of Mr Rs property subsequently  sold off its loan to a third party company Ill refer 
to as the ELP as it then became the equity loan provider.
Miss M says, in 2012, she approached  BoS to add her name  to the mortgage,  but was faced 
with unhelpful,  obstructive  and judgemental comments  from the adviser. She tried again later 
that year. BoS applied for an incorrect document from Land Registry  which  delayed  the 
process. It took approximately two years overall  for the process to be completed. But BoS 
had added several months  to the term of the mortgage. It corrected this error  following a 
complaint to this Service in 2016.
At the same time as applying to get her name  added to the mortgage, Miss M applied for a 
new product  a fixed rate. She says BoSs administration  of this caused unnecessary 
problems and delay.
Miss M says she complained about  both these  issues to BoS in 2012, 2016  and 2017. BoSs  
final response letters that deal with those  issues are as follows:
In its letter  dated  September  2014 BoS explained  that the new term was based on 21 years 
from the date the Land Registry was amended. This letter also dealt with the issue of the 
delay in adding  Miss Ms name to the mortgage.  In that regard, it acknowledged  the poor 
service provided and enclosed a cheque for £450, made up of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience and £150 to cover  any associated costs.
In its letter  of November  2015 BoS further explained  why it thinks  the remaining term is 
correct. It said the letter  followed a conversation with Miss M in which  she said the term 
Ref: DRN32230232should be five months  less. The letter said Miss M could have a full mortgage review  if she 
wanted to reduce the term. With regard to the product  change, Miss M had said she thought  
that should have started  earlier. BoS couldnt find the reason why this didnt happen but 
explained that Miss M had benefited because  shed been paying  a lower rate than the new 
one was to be fixed at.
BoSs letter  of November  2015 also acknowledges that Miss M had expressed  that she was 
unhappy with the outcome of her previous  complaint  and that messages  left for staff involved 
in that matter werent returned. So, it agreed to make a further payment of £400  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £25 towards  the cost of phone calls.  BoSs  notes 
say Miss M initially accepted that resolution but, in 2016  said she doesnt accept it.
BoS responded to a new complaint letter from Miss M of October  2016  with its final response  
in November 2016. This dealt again with the time taken to add Miss M to the mortgage; the 
delayed end to the new product due to its delayed start; the altered term of the mortgage; 
and Miss Ms concern about the possible legal implications regarding  ownership while the 
addition of her name to the mortgage was delayed.
In its letter,  BoS said Miss Ms legal  position was not affected by the delay in adding her 
name to the mortgage, only her ability to discuss the mortgage. It acknowledged  that the 
product change and the addition of her name  could have been completed separately but 
reiterated that shed benefited  from the delay in relation to the rate shed paid.
BoS proceeded to explain  that it agreed Miss M may lose out as a result of the later end date 
to the fixed rate she was now on. It offered to remove the fixed rate so that monthly 
payments would be based on the lower standard variable rate. That was subject to receipt of 
an illustration Miss M said she had of a fixed rate shed  wanted to apply for that would have 
ended much sooner   a rate she was prevented from getting because of the delay in adding 
her name to the mortgage. It offered to do this, despite that fixed  rate being higher than the 
one she ultimately acquired.
To resolve  Miss Ms complaint, BoS also said it would amend the term to its original length  
without the need for Miss M to go through a mortgage review. All the proposed amendments 
to the mortgage  were  subject to Mr Rs consent.
Miss M also complained about her application for further borrowing to repay the equity loan 
on her property. She said shed initially discussed  her income and expenditure with BoS to 
achieve this and it was suggested  she remortgage  with Mr R or look at additional lending  to 
consolidate debts.
She says she then had an interview  in 2017. She says shed asked for an interview  with 
someone who had experience  with shared equity. But when she mentioned  this to the 
advisor she was left waiting while the adviser read-up on the subject as the adviser had no 
previous knowledge.
During that interview she was told shed need  to repay the equity  loan and then look to 
consolidate debts  at a later time.  BoS asked Miss M and Mr R for details of their income and 
expenditure. Based on their responses, it said the maximum it could  lend was £52,430.  But it 
also said that, while it had included Miss Ms employed income in that initial calculation, 
because of the length and temporary  nature of her employment contract, it was unlikely to be 
able to include it in the actual lending  calculation. It also said the lending amount would be 
subject to full verification  of income and commitments. 
Ref: DRN32230233However, BoS told Miss M and Mr R it could only lend 25% - the whole amount required to 
repay the equity  loan  of the value of her property.  And the value  was based on an index 
BoS uses. That index showed a value of approximately £261,000 at that time.  Based on that 
value, Miss M would need to find approximately £9,000 more than the amount BoS was 
prepared to lend,  to repay the full equity  loan. So, despite Miss M telling BoS the ELP would 
be likely  to accept an amount in the region of £50,000 in full repayment of the equity loan, 
BoS refused to provide  the further  borrowing  required.
Miss M says she did consult an independent mortgage adviser, but it couldnt help. She 
complained to BoS about its inflexibility  and the attitude of its own adviser. In that regard Ive 
seen the following final response letters:
In its letter  of September 2017, BoS said it didnt agree that its decision to decline Miss Ms 
further advance  application was incorrect based on the information  available. But it did 
acknowledge shed  received poor customer service and would pay £100 to compensate for 
that.
BoS explained that its adviser was correct  that it was unable to lend an amount less than 
25% of the current value  of the property.  But that would be based on the amount the ELP 
required. It confirmed  that, provided the amount required by the ELP is less than £52,430 
and the information provided in her application  is still correct, BoS may be able to facilitate a 
further advance. It agreed that its adviser had shown a lack of empathy to Miss Ms situation 
at a specific point  during  their interview  and thats why it awarded  £100.
Its important to mention  here that Ive listened  to a recording of a call made to Miss M on the 
same day that final response  letter is dated. During the call BoS confirmed its response  to 
Miss Ms complaint in line with its final response  letter but did expand upon what  Miss M 
could do next  get three valuations and negotiate with the ELP to agree the amount 
required for repayment of the equity loan. BoS also confirmed  that debt consolidation cannot 
be considered  as part of the same further advance application.
Miss M says she had another conversation about  the outcome  of her complaint after she 
received the final response letter. She says she was told in that call that her application for a 
further advance  to repay the equity loan was unlikely to be accepted irrespective  of the 
amount required  by the ELP. But a copy of that call recording  cannot be found  by BoS and it 
has no record of the call.
 
BoS wrote  another final response  letter in August  2018  following Miss Ms referral  of the 
matter to this Service. In that letter BOS didnt depart from its findings of the September 
2017 letter,  but paid Miss M £50 in respect of its delay in responding to our referral.
Although Miss Ms complaints had been  responded to in multiple final response  letters  over 
the years, BoS gave our service consent to consider  all of Miss Ms complaint.
Our investigator agreed that there were delays and some  confusion  caused by BoSs  
handling of Miss Ms application to be added to the mortgage. But he also thought  that    
Miss Ms solicitor may have caused  some  of the delay,  given what  little evidence  is available  
about that part of her complaint. In any event, he found that the amount of £875 paid by BoS 
in compensation  was fair and likely to be more  than we would have awarded.
Ref: DRN32230234With regard to the product switch  applied  for at a similar time  our investigator found that 
Miss M benefitted from the delay by paying  a lower rate and thought  BoSs offer to remove  
the fixed rate and replace  it with a lower one was a fair resolution.
Our investigator also considered BoSs handling of Miss Ms further advance application to 
repay her equity loan.  He said that hed not seen any guarantee from BoS that                    
Mr R or Miss M would  be able to borrow more money and lenders are not obliged to lend.  He 
found that Miss Ms application  was declined  due to affordability and that consolidation of 
debts was not allowed with a shared equity arrangement.  Our investigator thought  BoSs  
adviser could have handled  the mortgage  interview better but thought BoSs  offer of £100  to 
compensate for that was fair.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigators  findings and asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
Before reaching my decision, I asked BoS to carefully check  its records for any evidence of a 
telephone conversation about and following its final response letter  of September 2017. But 
it told me it still cant trace any such call.
My findings
In my provisional decision of 14 May 2021 I wrote:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my provisional 
findings are different to my previous findings in relation to the third part of             
Miss M and Mr Rs complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Adding Miss Ms name to the mortgage 
The issues  of adding  Miss Ms name to the mortgage and the product switch  
application happened several years  ago. While BoS has consented to us considering 
the whole  complaint, it hasnt been able to provide evidence  detailing the whole story 
of what happened.
Miss M has told me that the issue of adding her name to the mortgage actually took 
longer than two years  to resolve.  But its clear  that she was eventually  added to the 
mortgage and BoS has acknowledged  that it made errors and caused delays. 
Ive also seen that Miss M was unhappy  that the mortgage term had increased by 
several months by the end of the process. BoS says that happened as a result of the 
application to add her name saying the term should be 21 years. I would  take that to 
mean 21 years from the end of the process of adding her name, but Ive not seen  
that form. BoS says it set the term to 21 years  from when the process  completed,  but 
then changed  it when Miss Ms solicitor pointed out that the land registry changed to 
show Miss M some months earlier.
When Miss M said she didnt want the term to change, BoS changed the term back to 
the length it would have  been had no change to the mortgage occurred. It says it did 
this despite not making an error.  Ive not been able to determine  whether BoS made 
an error or not, but I think it has resolved the matter in that the term reverted to Miss 
Ms preference.
Ref: DRN32230235I can understand that the issues and delays  would have been frustrating for Miss M. 
And theres  no doubt she would have spent her own time communicating  with BoS 
and her solicitor trying  to get matters resolved. But, without diminishing that 
inconvenience, I havent seen that Miss M has suffered  any additional loss as a result 
of the delay.
Ive seen that Miss M has expressed  concern about  her rights in relation to the 
ownership of the property  during the delay and I can understand that. But I havent 
seen that an issue  relating  to the ownership of the property ever arose at the time of 
the delay. So, aside from Miss Ms concern  around this, I cant see that she suffered 
a financial loss or was put to inconvenience in addition  to whats already  been 
acknowledged.
Given that Miss Ms name was eventually added to the mortgage and she appears to 
have suffered no financial loss; I think BoSs payments in respect of the trouble and 
upset caused  were a fair and reasonable resolution to this part of her complaint.
The product  switch application
Similar to the issue of adding Miss Ms name to the mortgage, her application for a 
new fixed rate was delayed considerably. Ive seen  from the evidence provided  that 
the processing of that application was delayed by the issue  of adding Miss Ms name.  
BoS has acknowledged that one process wasnt dependent on the other to complete, 
so the delay to the fixed rate application was unnecessary.
Given that the delay was unnecessary, it would  be reasonable of Miss M to expect  to 
be put into the position she would  have been  in, had the delay not occurred. Ive 
seen that BoS has considered how best to achieve  that. Initially it pointed out that the 
fixed rate Miss M would  have been put on was higher  than that of the standard 
variable rate she actually  paid. So, rather than backdate the fixed rate which would 
have left Miss M with a surplus  to repay,  it suggested that she benefit  from a lower 
rate product  for two years starting then. In a later final response letter,  it 
acknowledged that as rates had generally fallen since that offer it would allow  her to 
go onto the standard variable rate which, at that time, was significantly lower  than her 
fixed rate.
I think the resolution BoS provided here was reasonable as it ensured Miss M didnt 
lose financially because of the delay. Its action and subsequent offer actually meant 
Miss M gained financially as a result  of the delay.
Further borrowing to repay the equity loan
Miss M says she first made an enquiry about repaying the equity loan in 2012 and 
had intended to make a full application to obtain  further borrowing from BoS to 
achieve that. But she was met with an obstructive BoS representative who was 
judgemental about Miss Ms relationship with Mr R and her part time employment.  As 
BoS was unable to provide another adviser at the time, the application didnt 
proceed.
I dont have any cause  to doubt Miss Ms recollections of those events but, Ive not 
seen that Miss M raised a complaint or one was addressed  by BoS at that time. So, 
Ref: DRN32230236while I cant conclude exactly what happened, Miss Ms recollections are useful in 
giving me an idea of the wider history of her efforts and intentions  to repay the equity  
loan.
Miss M revisited  this in August 2017.  She says she first discussed her income and 
expenditure with BoS to achieve  this and it was suggested she remortgage with      
Mr R or look at additional lending to consolidate debts. She then arranged a Skype 
interview with one of BoSs mortgage advisers. Since my previous findings,  BoS has 
found and provided a recording of the interview.
Before listening to the recording of the interview, I found no other  indication  that the 
additional amount BoS said it may be prepared  to lend  £52,430  was only a 
provisional figure. But its clear from the recording that the income and commitment 
details provided  by Miss M and Mr R needed  to be verified before any formal offer 
could be made. And BoS was also clear that it had included income from             
Miss Ms temporary  employment, but said it didnt qualify  under its usual criteria 
because Miss M had less than a 12 month  history  with the employer. 
While BoS said it could  request that an underwriter include  the income, it transpired 
that she didnt  take up the offer she said she had received for another  12 month 
contract with the employer. And shes not been able to show that she was offered 
that 12 month contract.  
Given the doubt that was put over the reliability of BoSs willingness at the time to 
offer the additional £52,430, I asked  BoS to fully assess affordability using           
Miss M and Mr Rs income and commitments details at the time and its lending  
criteria. 
I think BoS response  its assessment and conclusions  are both thorough  and fair. 
BoS used information from current accounts  and mortgages held by both             
Miss M and Mr R. When assumptions had to be made, it gave the benefit of the 
doubt to Miss M and Mr R. It used office  of national statistics data to assess cost of 
living. And it based its calculations on two scenarios  joint and Mr Rs income only. 
In both scenarios,  it found that there was a negative disposable income. That means 
it wouldnt have been able to offer any further borrowing.
Before the recording  of the further  advance interview had been made  available,  Id 
focussed my investigation on BoSs apparent inflexibility. It had insisted that it used 
only its own valuation  based on an index  when calculating the amount  required  to 
repay the equity  loan.  And it had insisted  that it lend only the full 25% of that 
valuation, irrespective of whether Miss M was able to top-up the difference from her 
own money.
I still think BoS hasnt  demonstrated that it followed its own policy in that regard and it 
standing by its insistence not to lend less than the full 25% of the value of the 
property wasnt reasonable or fair. But as Im satisfied that, based on BoSs  lending  
criteria, further borrowing  was unaffordable for Miss M and Mr R, I dont think it 
declined their application unfairly.
While I know my decision will come  as a huge  disappointment to Miss M, I dont 
conclude that the series  of events that have caused  such disruption to the lives of her 
Ref: DRN32230237and her family were  caused by BoS. As I dont  think BoS were  wrong  to decline   
Miss M and Mr Rs application, I dont uphold  their complaint. 
In response to my findings, Miss M and Mr R have submitted several documents  and call 
recordings  all of which Ive seen  before  but, none the less, considered  carefully again 
before making  my final decision.  Theyve also made  many observations  which I have 
thought about before reaching a conclusion. None of this evidence changes my thinking  
about their complaint, but I will address  some  of their main  points again.
Miss M and Mr R say that BoS has acknowledged that it doesnt understand shared equity. 
Specifically, they say they were told the valuation issue  was a grey area and that the rules 
and policy  around  shared  equity are not clear and very confusing.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I thought  BoS incorrectly said the value of      
Miss M and Mr Rs property would be based  on its own index. This was acknowledged  by 
BoS in its final response letter dated  13 September 2017. But because  I dont think          
Miss M and Mr R would  have been able to borrow the additional funds  they needed to repay 
the ELP, even  if the value was based  on a different valuation, I dont think  that information 
ultimately prevented  Miss M and Mr R from repaying  the shared equity to the ELP.
BoS didnt acknowledge that its advisor informed Miss M and Mr R incorrectly about only 
being able to lend the full 25% of the property  value. I still think  this showed an inflexibility  
that didnt help Miss M and Mr R at the time of their application and the time of their 
complaint, which  I view as their appeal to the lending decision.  I had thought  that it was this 
inflexibility that prevented Miss M and Mr R from being able to repay  the shared equity loan.
However, following  my first provisional  decision, BoS provided a copy  of the call recording 
from the further borrowing application  interview. As outlined  above  in the findings  of my 
second provisional decision  it was clear  from that recording  that the £52,430 was only a 
provisional lending  amount,  based on what Miss M and Mr R told BoS in that interview.  Any 
actual offer would be based on verified  income and expenditure information and subject to 
BoSs affordability criteria.
Miss M has said the advisor understood her income from her temporary contract was 
unlikely to be accepted by BoS and she wanted to know how much additional borrowing    
Mr R would be allowed on his own. Having listened  to the call recording of the interview I 
asked BoS to make a full retrospective  assessment of affordability based on both Miss M 
and Mr R and Mr R alone. It let me have  the results of its assessments and an explanation of 
its calculation before I completed  my provisional findings above. In both scenarios BoS 
found that it wouldnt have agreed any further  borrowing  at all. Im satisfied from what BoS 
provided that it carried out a fair and thorough  assessment of affordability,  applying  its own 
criteria.
Given that Im satisfied BoS wouldnt have been able to lend Miss M and Mr R any further  
money  and affordability was the reason given for their declined application  I dont think 
BoS caused Miss M to lose her home. I think BoS did give Miss M and Mr R information that 
was both incorrect and unhelpful. But I wont conclude that it should have provided them 
further borrowing  to repay  their shared  equity  loan because Im satisfied by the evidence  Ive 
seen that they failed  BoSs affordability assessment. I think BoS was correct to apply its own 
affordability criteria in that regard. And I wouldnt expect a lender to lend where  it found  that 
repayments would be unaffordable or unsustainable.
Ref: DRN32230238Miss M says she didnt pursue another 12 month contract because BoS said it was unlikely 
to accept that income. And she says she was in full-time employment on a permanent 
contract by January  2018. Mr R has said his parents would have lent them  any shortfall in an 
amount BoS was prepared to lend to repay  the shared equity loan. But BoS didnt say     
Miss M and Mr R couldnt reapply, so I think they could have done so when  Miss Ms 
employment circumstances changed. I understand Miss M was worn down by what she saw 
as a lack of willingness to help on the part of BoS.  But I think  it was a lack of affordability that 
was the cause of the declined application,  not any unwillingness from BoS.
Miss M and Mr R also say the delay  in adding Miss M to the mortgage caused  them  to apply 
for the further  advance later, when house prices  were higher   meaning they needed a 
greater amount of money to repay the equity  loan. Ive said I think  BoS has compensated 
them adequately for that delay in terms of the trouble and upset caused and that they dont 
appear to have suffered a financial loss.
Ive thought about whether the delay meant they were forced  to apply for further borrowing at 
a more expensive  time.  Ms M says she first enquired about  repaying  the equity loan in 2012. 
She says she was prevented from taking that enquiry further because of the attitude  of a 
BoS staff member. But Ive not seen any evidence to show the detail of what  happened  at 
that time.  So, I cant conclude what actually prevented  Miss M taking that enquiry further  or 
whether any application at that time might have been successful.
I dont think it would  have  been practical for Miss M and Mr R to apply for the further  
advance while the transfer of equity  application  or the rate switch processes were  being 
carried out. But they didnt apply immediately  after those processes were complete. So, I 
cant know when they would have made their application for further borrowing and if it would 
have been sooner than it was had the previous administration  delays not occurred. As a 
result, I still think they didnt suffer a financial loss because of the administrative delays  and 
the redress offered  by BoS for those complaints was reasonable.
I understand Miss M and Mr R think their complaint should be upheld because  of the errors 
they feel BoS has made throughout their dealings with them. But our role is not to punish 
businesses. In deciding  Miss M and Mr Rs complaint  Ive sought to understand whether BoS 
was the cause of Miss M losing her home  as she claims. I have reviewed all the call 
recordings Miss M has provided, but I still conclude that BoS declined Miss M and Mr Rs 
application because  it failed BoSs affordability assessment. So, I dont think  BoS caused 
Miss M to lose her home. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss M and Mr Rs complaint about Bank of Scotland  
Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3223023