K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) transferred a Personal Pension 
Plan (PPP) to a new digital pension - Retiready  which didnt match his risk profile. As a 
result Mr I says he has lost approximately £19,000.
background
In 2002 Mr I took out a PPP with Aegon. This was invested in the Universal Balanced 
Collection fund. He says he received  advice  on this investment from a financial  advisor  who 
worked for Positive Solutions.
In January 2017 Aegon wrote to Mr I to let him know it intended to transfer his pension  to a 
new digital  pension called Retiready.  It said Mr Is pension would automatically be 
transferred unless he told Aegon otherwise. It gave Mr I the option to revert  to his old plan if 
he wished at a later point.  A reminder  of the intended transfer was sent to Mr I in February 
2017. Mr I didnt reply and the transfer  of Mr Is PPP to Retiready was completed in April 
2017. Aegons welcome letter confirmed  the transfer to the Scottish Equitable Universal  
Balanced Collection ARC  and set out the charges to be applied to Mr Is account. It also 
stressed the importance  of activating  his Retiready  account online as soon as possible.
Mr I says he wasnt able to activate  the online account. Aegon  says information on how to 
activate his account was sent to Mr I but he says he didnt  receive  this. There was some 
confusion over the address this information had been sent to which led Mr I to complain.  His 
complaint was upheld because he had been told  wrongly - that personal information  had 
been sent to another  customer. Aegon paid £100 for the upset caused by this and the length 
of time Mr I waited to receive the activation information.
In January 2019 Mr I complained about the risk profile of the Retiready fund. He felt that the 
plan had been transferred  to Retiready without his consent and hed understood the plan 
would be risk averse. He also raised  concerns about the decline in value of the fund. He 
wanted Aegon to:
Transfer all funds to cash in order to prevent  further losses (in due course he intended to 
transfer to a different pension provider).
Reimburse him for the fall in value  over the previous six months.
Refund management charges for the fund.
Levy no future management charges until he transferred his pension to a new provider.
Aegon issued  a Final Response Letter (FRL) later in January 2019. It said:
It understood Mr I was concerned about the performance of his investment.
It had mirrored the funds Mr I was previously invested in. The Retiready fund had the 
same level of risk as his previous fund.
It didnt agree it was at fault for any loss on the investment, saying this was due to the 
fluctuations of the stock market.
Mr I replied saying hed told his financial advisor from Positive Solutions he was risk averse.  
He said he was sure this had been  conveyed to Aegon, but Mr I now feels Aegon  had 
invested his PPP in a high risk account against his explicit instructions. He says Aegon 
hasnt managed the fund in line with his instructed risk profile.  
Ref: DRN35777522Mr I complained to us in February 2019.  He said Aegon  transferred his pension  to Retiready, 
but this new policy didnt match his risk profile,  and hed suffered a loss of about  £19,000  
over six months. He says hed requested  the policy be transferred to cash  to stop the loss, 
but there wasnt such a facility. So he felt the only alternative for him was to transfer to 
another provider.  He also says he couldnt  gain electronic  access  to his Retiready account 
until May 2018. He said since  the policy transferred to Retiready it has been mismanaged.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She said:
Although Mr I had issues with setting up his online account, she felt Aegon tried to rectify 
this. It sent him a new PIN but this wasnt received. She couldnt hold Aegon responsible 
for this as it has no control  over information once its posted.
Aegon gave  Mr I incorrect information  about the address the information was sent to. 
She noted Aegon had paid £100  for the mistakes it had made  and felt this was 
reasonable.
She found the fund Mr I had transferred into mirrored the fund in which  he was 
previously invested.
She also provided data which showed that had Mr I remained invested  in his previous  
fund, he would have  made a greater loss. So Mr I had benefited  from transferring.
She noted Mr I had sought  advice from a financial advisor whod recommended a fund 
with an average risk rating. If Mr I wanted  to complain about this advice he would need to 
complain to the financial advisor.  She said couldnt hold Aegon  responsible  for placing 
Mr I in an inappropriate fund as Aegon didnt provide advice.
Mr I didnt agree with our investigator and made some additional points. He said hed been in 
discussion with Hargreaves Lansdown,  having  made the decision in 2017  to transfer his 
PPP to them. He said Hargreaves  Lansdown had expressed the opinion that the Retiready 
fund was totally inappropriate  for his investment requirements. He reiterated that there had 
been issues with trying to set up the online Retiready account and he wasnt able to get a 
pension valuation until late in the second half of 2018. Mr I said if he could have transferred 
the PPP to Hargreaves  Lansdown in early  2018  he would not have incurred any losses. He 
said the delay  was Aegons responsibility and he suffered  a loss as a result.
The case  has been referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It might be useful here to set out some  context; the change from the Aegon PPP to the 
Retiready plan was essentially  moving the plan to a digital platform. The charges were the 
same or lower  and it also kept the plan in line with the original investment (which had been 
recommended by a financial  advisor).
Mr I has made several complaints about the transfer  of his PPP to Retiready and customer  
service issues  resulting from it. At various times he has complained that:
 Aegon has invested his PPP in a high risk account against his explicit  instructions.
 The Retiready  fund didnt match his risk profile.
 He suffered a loss of approximately £19,000 in six months.
 His PPP had been transferred without his consent.
 Aegon is responsible for the delays in him being able to access  his account.
 Information had been sent to an incorrect address.
Ref: DRN35777523Mr Is main complaint, reiterated  in his comments passed to me for my review,  is that in 2017 
Aegon transferred his policy to Retiready and this was not fit for purpose  given his risk 
profile. I will consider this issue first.
Was Mr Is PPP transferred  to a fund that had greater risk?
On his complaint  form to us Mr I said hed been advised by Positive Solutions financial 
advisor to take out a pension with Aegon. Mr I says,  He advised  me this pension  policy  
adhered to my instruction  of risk aversion. When Aegon wrote to Mr I in January 2017 letting 
him know about the transfer to Retiready, included with the letter was an Important 
Changes document.  I can see from this document that, following the fund transfer, Mr I 
would be invested  in the Retiready version  of his existing funds. Ive looked  at both funds to 
compare their risk profile to determine  whether Mr I had been transferred into a fund which 
carried more risk than the fund hed previously been invested  in. 
Prior to the transfer, Mr Is PPP was invested in the Universal Balanced  Collection fund. 
After the transfer,  Mr Is PPP was invested  in the Universal Balanced Collection (ARC) fund. 
Ive seen the factsheets for both funds  and the asset  allocation is the same.  Both funds are 
described as average risk. They also have the same  objective and the same benchmark. So 
Mr I was invested on the Retiready platform in line with the same risk profile as he had been 
in his original  plan. Aegon didnt change his investments to higher risk funds.
Mr I said his financial advisor  told him this original  investment adhered to his risk averse 
instruction. If Mr I feels this original recommendation wasnt right for him, he will need to 
refer a complaint  to the financial advisor  who gave the original recommendation. Aegon 
didnt advise Mr I to invest in the fund. So it cant be held responsible  for the investment in a 
fund which  Mr I may feel isnt right.
The performance of the fund
Mr I says he has lost approximately £19,000  in six months. I can see from evidence provided 
by Aegon  that between 1 September 2018 and 28 January 2019 the value  of Mr Is 
Retiready plan fell by nearly £22,000. Based  on what  Ive seen this fall was due to 
fluctuations in the stock market and the equities  held within Mr Is plan. Aegon  provided 
comparisons which show that if Mr I had stayed  invested in his previous plan his fund value 
would have decreased even more  during  this period. My finding here is that Aegon is not 
responsible for the decrease in value of Mr Is pension. 
Was Mr Is fund transferred without his consent?
Ive seen copies  of the letters sent by Aegon in January 2017 signalling its intention to 
transfer Mr Is pension  and the reminder it sent in February 2017. Both were sent to 
Mr Is address. The January 2017  letter makes clear Mr Is pension  will be transferred; it also 
says (in bold text) unless you tell us you dont  want this to happen. It explained that if Mr I 
wished to opt out of this transfer, he should contact Aegon.  So Mr I had a choice; the 
transfer wasnt compulsory.
The letter also sets out the benefits  of the transfer  including the same or lower  charges, 
letting Mr I see the value  of his pension and its performance at any time, and providing an 
online library for key documents. It reiterated  there would be no cost to Mr I for this transfer. 
It also gave Mr I the option of reverting to the previous  arrangements. 
Ref: DRN35777524I appreciate Mr I didnt explicitly agree to the transfer. But Im satisfied that Aegons  
approach to the transfer to Retiready was based  on the benefits that would follow  and it was 
acting with Mr Is best interests  in mind. Mr I was given a choice and could have also moved 
his pension back after it had been transferred so I think assuming agreement from Mr I 
unless he said otherwise wasnt unfair in the circumstances.  Overall  Im satisfied Aegon  
didnt do anything wrong by transferring Mr Is pension when it didnt hear back from him.
The delays in accessing Mr Is online  account
When Aegon wrote to Mr I on 24 April 2017  confirming  the transfer of his pension, it said, its 
important that you activate your online account  as soon as possible and gave instructions 
on how to do this. Mr I says he didnt  receive  this information. 
I can see that Mr I contacted Aegon in October  2017 to say hed tried to pay money  into his 
pension but wasnt  able to do so. From  the evidence Ive seen it would appear there was 
confusion over the reference  numbers for the payment and also over the legibility of the 
cheque sent by Mr I. I can see Aegon advised Mr I that he would need to activate the online 
account and then transfer the funds direct  from his bank account. A telephone  number  and 
contact email address  was provided if he was unsure about how to do this. Mr I replied by 
email indicating he didnt  want  to be part of an online journey. 
I can see that Mr I raised concerns with not being  able to access  his online account in March  
2018. Aegon sent the activation information  again on 7 April 2018. Mr I says he didnt 
receive this letter. Ive seen the email correspondence between  Mr I and Aegon  and there  is 
clearly confusion over the address the letter had been sent to. Initially  Aegon said it had sent 
the information to a different customer with the same name  as Mr I. Aegon  subsequently 
said that, in fact, it had sent the letters to the correct address  it had for Mr I; he had been  told 
 wrongly  the information had been  sent to the incorrect address. Mr Is complaint about 
this was upheld  and Aegon accepted it had given Mr I the impression it had sent the 
information to the incorrect address. It paid Mr I £100 compensation for the upset  this 
caused. This seems  fair and reasonable to me in the circumstances.
In his submission to me prior to my review of the case  Mr I said,  The ongoing delays that 
were not of my creation  resulted in me not being able to get a valuation  of my pension with 
Aegon/Retiready until late on in the second half of 2018. Aegons  records show Mr I was 
able to access his online account on 24 May 2018.  I appreciate  that there seem to have  
been issues with Mr Is access  to his online account  and understand this would  have been  
frustrating. However, I cant see any reason why Mr I couldnt have obtained details of his 
pension at that point to forward  to Hargreaves Lansdown. And even before then, I think 
Hargreaves or Mr I should have been  able to request the information  that was needed  from 
Aegon by email or telephone without Mr I having  to access his online account. He had been 
in email contact with Aegon on several  occasions, so I think he couldve requested the 
information this way if needed.
Ive mentioned earlier that Mr I said hed made the decision  in 2017 to transfer  his PPP to 
Hargreaves Lansdown. I havent seen any evidence Mr I asked  Aegon  for information to 
enable the transfer of his pension; had Aegon not provided this, it could have  prevented Mr I 
from transferring his pension earlier than he did. But Mr I only asked to transfer his pension  
in January 2019; by which time the drop in value had already happened.
Ref: DRN35777525To summarise, I dont agree that Aegon invested Mr Is PPP in a high risk account against 
his instructions. The risk rating of the fund after transfer was the same as the fund before 
transfer. The decline in the value of the fund is due to fluctuations  in the stock  market. And I 
dont see the delays in accessing  his online account  led to Mr I not being able to transfer his 
pension until 2019. I agree that Aegon created confusion by saying it had initially  sent 
information to the wrong address but then saying  this was incorrect. I think the £100 
compensation paid for the trouble and upset  this caused is fair and reasonable. 
For clarity,  Aegon  doesnt  need to refund the management charges Mr I asked for. Nor does 
it need to reimburse  him for the losses his fund suffered before it was transferred to 
Hargreaves Lansdown.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Geoff Pearson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3577752