K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service from British  Gas Services Limited when its contractor fixed  
a leak at his property.
background
Mr H has a Homecare home  emergency cover policy with British  Gas Services  Limited  
(BGSL).
In October  2018 Mr H had a problem with the central heating at his property which  he 
reported to BGSL.  A contractor came  out and needed to gain access  to a valve under the 
floorboards in his hallway. He had to take up the hall carpet to access  the valve  and asked 
Mr Hs wife for permission to do so. She agreed  as long as the carpet  would be put back.
After the repair  the contractor replaced  the carpet. But Mr H wasnt satisfied  with the way it 
had been done. The carpet has holes where the gripper rods poke through  which could 
injure his small children.  So he complained.
BGSL said its contractor  had done  all thats required under the policy terms, but paid him 
£50 for the delay  in responding. Mr H wasnt happy  so he complained to us. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint as the Access and Making Good section of the policy  
specifically excludes  floor coverings. Mr H said an expert has told him the carpet is now 
ruined. But our investigator thought  £50 was enough in the circumstances. 
So its come  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it, for the same reason  as our investigator. Let me explain  why. 
This complaint isnt about the quality of the repair at Mr Hs property. Its about what the 
contractor did to make  good  the area following the repair. Generally speaking if thered  
been poor workmanship, or if the contractor had caused additional damage to Mr Hs 
property during the course of the repair, Id expect BGSL to put things right.
It was necessary to get under the floorboards to access  a faulty valve, which involved lifting 
the carpet.  If Mr Hs wife hadnt  consented  for the carpet and floorboards to be lifted  the 
contractor couldnt  have proceeded. But as a formality the contractor is obliged  to ask for 
permission before the works can be carried out.
Mr Hs wife gave permission for the carpet  to be lifted on the understanding it would  be 
replaced. From the photographs I can see the floorboards have been put back and the 
carpet has been replaced on top. However  the carpet hasnt been stretched over the gripper 
rods exactly  as it originally was. This means  the original holes where the gripper rods 
punctured the carpet are now visible, and Mr H says the spikes  can be felt through  the 
carpet. 
While I understand Mr Hs disappointment that his hall wasnt restored exactly as it had been 
before, I think its been made good as required under the terms of Mr Hs policy. The 
contractors area of expertise is repairing heating and water  systems and domestic  
Ref: DRN34714432appliances covered under the Homecare policy. Id expect the contractor to be fully 
competent to carry out such repairs and to have  the relevant tools and parts.  Lifting and 
replacing the same carpet is tricky, even  with the right tools and expertise. And I bear in 
mind the contractor isnt a carpet  fitter so I wouldnt expect him to have any particular 
expertise in this area or carry  professional  fitting tools. So I expect he did his best to put the 
carpet back.
Page 28 of the policy document  explains the Homecare policy covers up to £1,000 for 
getting access and making good . But over-riding this is the wording under Access and 
Making Good in the Definitions section right at the start of the policy document. This 
explains that BGSL will repair any damage  caused while  carrying  out a repair. Such  as 
replacing kitchen  cabinets which they removed, or filling in holes and leaving a level surface. 
But it also says but we wont restore or replace the original surface or coverings, for 
example tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or plants. As carpets fall within  the 
definition of floor  coverings I think this makes clear that re-stretching the carpet over the 
gripper rods or replacing the carpet completely isnt something BGSL is required to do under  
the terms of the policy. 
Homecare policies dont  cover every eventuality that might  happen to someones home. 
They are designed  to provide peace  of mind should  there be a home  emergency  such  as 
the loss of hot water or heating, or the failure of an essential household appliance. They 
dont cover all the costs involved in such repairs. And this one specifically doesnt cover 
restoring floor coverings.
I realise Mr H expected his hall carpet to have been put back  exactly as it was before the 
repair. But British Gas Services  Limited isnt obliged to put it right.  And I think  £50 is fair to 
reflect the delay  in responding. So I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3471443