K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies sold with two loans. 
Ms W says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her both PPI policies.
background
Ms W took out her first loan in December  2007  (ending 7001). At the same time she took out 
a single premium PPI policy. She paid a premium for the policy  up front and the premium 
attracted interest through the term of the loan.
In December 2009 Ms W took out a second loan (ending 6996). At that time she took out a 
regular premium PPI policy.
Part of the 2009 loan was used to clear the 2007  loan. The PPI sold with the 2007 loan was 
cancelled and the insurer supplied a rebate which was used to reduce the 2007  loan 
balance before it was cleared. But the rebate  wasnt enough to clear all the outstanding PPI 
premium. So some of the cost of the PPI sold with the 2007 loan carried over to the 2009 
loan. 
In August  2016  an adjudicator looked into the complaint  and found  the first loan had been 
mis-sold. In situations like this we expect Lloyds to put Ms W in the position she would have 
been in if the policy  hadnt been  sold to her. However Lloyds  originally only refunded  the 
unfair commission that had been paid by Ms W. We asked Lloyds to look again  at the 
amount paid. Lloyds  looked into the redress that had been given to Ms W again  and since 
then on 6 February 2019 Lloyds has paid Ms W the difference between what it had already  
paid and what it should have paid by cheque.
The adjudicator didnt think the second  loan had been mis-sold. Ms W didnt agree with this 
so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms W case.
For clarity I will deal with both sales of the PPI policies attached to both loans separately.
loan one
Lloyds has already put Ms W in the position she would have been  in if shed not been sold 
the single  premium policy. Lloyds has refunded Ms W in full.
Lloyds has worked  out and paid Ms W the difference between  what she actually paid each 
month on the first loan and what she would have paid each month without PPI. As some  of 
the cost of PPI moved into the second loan this means Ms W borrowed slightly more to 
cover this additional cost.  So Lloyds has also worked out and paid Ms W the difference 
between what she actually paid each month  on the second loan and what  she would have 
paid each month if some of the PPI didnt move into the second loan. This includes refunding 
Ref: DRN34130472the extra amounts  charged for the regular premium sold with the second  loan because the 
regular premiums were based on the amount of benefit required.
Lloyds has then worked out simple interest at a rate of 8%* per year on each payment from 
when Ms W paid it until the date she got it back.  
As this is what I would direct it to do if I found  the policy had been mis-sold I think this is a 
fair way of resolving the complaint about this loan and I dont require it to pay any further 
compensation.
loan two
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Ms W was given a choice about buying the PPI. 
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Ms W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out. It looks like Ms W took out the PPI over the telephone. Lloyds cant  provide a 
copy of the call recording which isnt unusual given the sale happened  such  a long time ago. 
But Ive looked  at the call script that was likely  to have been used and Im satisfied it makes 
the optional nature of the policy clear.
Ms W doesnt think she agreed to take the policy because shes  not signed the Personal 
Summary and Recommendation document. But Ms W wasnt required to sign this document 
to get the policy.  She was required to sign the accompanying credit agreement  which  I can 
see she did.
Ms W has also stated  that she was misled into signing for the insurance because the credit 
agreement had an arrow with please tick and sign printed on it. Ive looked at the credit 
agreement and can see it also has an arrow with please  sign next to where Ms W was 
required to sign to obtain the credit. I dont  think this was misleading because  the credit  
agreement was sent to Ms W following a phone call. Its not unreasonable for Lloyds to 
highlight the areas that needed  to be completed  by Ms W to finalise everything. And the cost 
of the PPI is set out and the section completed  states that the insurance  is optional. Overall, 
I think Ms W chose to take out the cover  and would have understood she didnt need to take 
it if she didnt want it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover-  she was in 
employment and didnt have any medical condition which she was already aware of so I 
think she could have  made a successful claim  if shed  needed  to. And she seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Ms W has told us she would have received sick pay from work for six months but less than 
12 months. But this policy  would have paid out in addition to and potentially  for longer than 
her full sick pay from work would have  lasted. And any redundancy pay she received could 
have been used for other important expenses  if she lost her job. So I think  it was suitable  for 
her and could have been useful if things went wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable.
Ref: DRN34130473Its possible the information Lloyds gave Ms W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And for 
much the same reasons as Ive found  it was suitable for her I dont  think better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because : 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about  that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Ms W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back to Ms W the extra  she paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds has 
also paid Ms W 8%* simple interest  on each payment - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Ms W can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said - including what  shes said about the single 
premium policy sold with loan one providing adequate cover for the second loan. But this 
point doesnt change my decision.
Ms W thinks the policy sold with loan one provided cover for a five year term and so wouldnt 
have needed a separate policy to cover  the second  loan.  I dont  agree  because the policy  
sold with the first loan only covered the first loan for up to the three years the loan was due 
to run for. When the first loan was repaid  early  the policy was cancelled.  As such when 
Ms W took out the second loan she didnt  have an existing  policy in place.
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already put Ms W in the position she wouldve been in if she hadnt 
been sold the PPI policy  with the first loan so Lloyds Bank PLC does not need to do anything  
more in regards  to this policy.
The PPI policy sold with the second  loan wasnt  mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3413047