K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage.
background
In September  2019 I issued a provisional  decision. In it I explained why I wasnt  intending to 
uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In summary  I said that I thought  Mr and Mrs M had chosen  the 
policy knowing they could  have declined it if they didnt want  it. I also said I thought  this was 
a suitable policy for them.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wished me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
BoI confirmed it had received my provisional  decision; it accepted  my findings and told us it 
had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with my provisional decision. In 
summary they said:
The business hadnt provided  any information and they felt I was siding with the 
business.
At no time did they have any contact with the business but with an independent 
financial advisor.
As I had stated in my provisional  decision their house was re-mortgaged in 1990. 
They then took out a further advance in 1991. At some  point  PPI was added. In my 
provisional decision, I assumed that PPI started  after the second advance (in 1991).  
But Mr and Mrs M say this started the month  before the advance  cheque was issued 
which seems strange.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed that there was no new sale of a policy  when the insurer  
changed in 1992.  They refer to the letter stating the direct debit had been cancelled 
in August 1992 so they assumed that a new policy had come into force  even if this 
was only for a couple of months until cancellation in August  1992.
PPI was added without discussion.  The building and contents insurance  was 
compulsory and they now believe they thought PPI was also part of that requirement.
Was the PPI really suitable  for their needs  when the maximum payable was 
£1200.00? Mr and Mrs M also ask whether they had enough information to make  an 
informed decision.
There were  several exclusions to the policy and they do not think  it was suitable 
particularly as Mr M had a second job - so they say the policy  wouldnt have paid out. 
And they have  told me the hours of work in the second job which  they dont think  
were a small  number of hours.
Mr Ms main  job was with a company who did not make  compulsory redundancies so 
the policy would have been  void if there were voluntary redundancy policies.
Ref: DRN34686862Mr and Mrs M mention commission payments to the independent  broker who they 
say sold the policy.  They have  told me about  further  advice they received about 
converting a workplace pension to a private  company  pension  which  was 
investigated and upheld. They use this to illustrate  that the representative must have 
mis-sold the PPI and was only selling the policy to them  to make  large bonuses.
Mr and Mrs M had shares they could  have sold which would have covered the 
maximum amount paid out by this policy.
The policy was to protect their mortgage for £200 but the mortgage was £325 per 
month so this wouldnt protect their mortgage. It could  have been an additional 
amount but due to the exclusions would it have paid out?
The mortgage ended in January 1995 not in December 1996.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I understand Mr and Mrs M feel strongly that theirs  is a complaint which  should be upheld. 
Im grateful  to them for their further points. Im sorry to disappoint them  but Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why in response to their points raised  following my 
provisional decision. I want to assure Mr and Mrs M I have taken everything theyve said into 
account even  if I havent  listed it above.
To be clear this is only a decision  about  Mr and Mrs Ms PPI. It does not take into account 
any pension or other types of insurance which might have been sold to them. Each  case  is 
decided on its own facts.  I am impartial and I have carefully considered all the evidence  I do 
have in order to make my decision. As explained  in my provisional decision where there  are 
gaps in the information Ive made  my decision on the balance  of probabilities - that is what is 
more likely to have  happened and I have taken  into account  everything  Mr and Mrs M have 
told me as well as looking  at the paperwork  and thinking about what  we know about how 
these types of policies were  sold.
As I also explained in my provisional decision I note that Mr and Mrs M feel it is an important  
point that an independent  financial adviser  sold them the policy. I accept its possible that the 
adviser might have sold them their mortgage  but there is no evidence that this representative 
sold them  the PPI. Originally Mr and Mrs M complained  that BoI sold them the PPI and BoI 
has taken responsibility  for this sale. The sale happened so long ago and whilst I have no 
doubt that Mr and Mrs M have given  me their honest  and best recollections, buying  
insurance is not always such a memorable  event. In any event it makes no difference  to how 
I will look at this complaint.
I used the date set out in the written schedule of insurance in the absence  of any other 
evidence as the start date for the PPI. Again this will make no difference  to the way I make 
my decision.  And again I cant say that it was a new policy  that was taken  out in 1992 - only 
that a new insurer  took over from the original insurers. This is set out in the letter  of 23 
March 1992 from the underwriter at the time which says BoI are currently  making alternative 
arrangements for PPI and they anticipate  that the change of insurer  will be simultaneous to 
Ref: DRN34686863the cessation of your policy  with ourselves. To me this means that the change would result 
in a new insurer but does not indicate  the sale of a new PPI policy. The direct  debit was 
more likely cancelled in August 1992  after instruction from Mr and Mrs M.
Ive set out in my provisional decision why I thought Mr and Mrs M had a choice about taking 
out the policy. Mr and Mrs M say they now think they thought  PPI was also part of that 
requirement [for the mortgage]. What theyve  told me hasnt changed my mind. I can 
understand why Mr and Mrs M might  not remember exactly but the evidence shows that 
there were various letters sent at different stages about PPI so I think  they could  have 
questioned the cover earlier than they have done  if they were  unsure about it. The PPI was 
only in Mr Ms name  to me, this alongside looking at the various correspondence shows 
that on balance  Mr and Mrs M had a choice about taking out the PPI. Overall, I think  its 
more likely they had a choice about  buying PPI at the time even  if its understandable if they 
cant remember the details now after so long.
The letter of 26 November 1991 from the insurers told Mr and Mrs M how much  the monthly 
benefit was, so if they wanted to alter the amount of the benefit they could  have contacted 
BoI to increase it. I havent seen any evidence they did this. And it doesnt  mean  the policy 
was unsuitable  for them  as the PPI could have supplemented their income  to help with any 
mortgage repayments if they fell into difficulty. And as Mr and Mrs M say this could have  
been a supplemental amount. So this doesnt change my mind.
In my provisional decision,  I have also explained why I think the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs M. I have  again considered Mr Ms two jobs. This would sometimes  make a 
difference but in this case I dont think Mr Ms second role would have prevented  him from 
making a successful claim. He has said there  was a requirement for each [worker]  to attend 
15 days training and three hours  each week on one evening  and some weekends. I dont 
think this job would  have  prevented him from claiming for being off work  in his main  job. And 
if he had been  injured in this role, then the PPI could have been  helpful. It would have paid 
out for longer than his full sick pay lasted and in addition to any other  means Mr and Mrs M 
had. If Mr M had been made redundant then I still think it would have paid out. Mr M says he 
couldnt have  been made redundant. I appreciate that this position felt secure and was a 
good job but circumstances can change and the mortgage was a long term commitment. If 
Mr and Mrs M couldnt repay their monthly mortgage repayment then this was serious so I 
think the PPI was still useful.
And I have  taken into account their other means. But this policy  would have meant they 
could have left their shares in place or they could have used them for other  important living 
costs. The shares were subject to the market value  at the time if they had needed them  and 
once used couldnt have helped them if they couldnt work or lost their jobs. So I dont think 
this made  the PPI unsuitable for them.
Its possible not all the information was as clear as it could have been. But for much the 
same reasons as I think the PPI was suitable for them I dont think clearer  or better 
information would have changed their mind about buying the PPI. I think  Mr and Mrs M 
chose the cover and so it looks  like they wanted this type of insurance  at the time, I think  it 
was affordable and the cost was reasonable for the benefit it gave. All in all I think  the PPI 
could have been useful if things went wrong.
The dates of the mortgage are important in so far as sometimes businesses will need to give 
consumers back some of the commission paid on certain  policies but this only applies to 
credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements taken out before then 
Ref: DRN34686864which were still running on 6 April 2008.  As Mr and Mrs Ms agreement had come to an end 
in 1996 the dates do not apply. I can see the letter which notes redemption  of the mortgage 
in 1995 but its not absolutely clear from this letter  that that is when the mortgage was 
repaid. But it is clear it was ended  by 1996.  Both these dates (1995 or 1996) dont fall within 
the dates mentioned above  so BoI doesnt have to pay back any of the commission paid 
on the PPI policy.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I dont think they lost out financially as a result of 
anything BoI did wrong and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34686865Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage.
One of Mr and Mrs Ms concerns is that a financial  adviser from another  business sold them the 
policy, so they never arranged  any PPI directly with BoI. But in this matter BoI has agreed to take 
responsibility for this complaint so I will refer to BoI throughout this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage  in 1990. They took out a further advance on their mortgage in 
August 1991.The mortgage  was in joint names.
Mr and Mrs M also took out a PPI policy. It isnt clear when this was originally  taken  out as there  are 
limited records from the time but an insurance schedule  provided shows this covered Mr M only (not 
Mrs M) from the commencement  date of 24 July 1991  and would have provided a benefit of £200 and 
cost £10 per month  later increasing to £13 in 1992. The benefit  remained at £200.  So I think  its most 
likely the policy was taken  out when  Mr and Mrs M took a further advance in 1991 rather than when 
they applied for the main  mortgage in 1990.
The policy covered Mr M if he was off work  because of an accident, illness or if he lost his job for up 
to 12 months  per successful claim.
 
In 1992 there  was a change in the insurer  Mr and Mrs M were notified by letter in 1992 telling them 
that the new policy was expected to be similar in terms and cost.  I dont think  there was a sale of a 
new policy at this time. 
In 1993, the mortgage was transferred to a fixed interest rate. It doesnt look like there was a new sale 
of the PPI.
Mr and Mrs M have  told us that when BoI changed the insurance company it didnt contact  them with 
any information  or check that it was right for them - it just changed it automatically. And they say that 
the representative  who sold it must have received a large bonus  by selling the PPI at the same time 
as arranging the mortgage.  They have  also told us that the PPI was added on without discussion and 
they had never discussed or received details  about the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt think this matter should be upheld; Mr and Mrs M didnt agree  with this view and 
asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed but I will explain  why Im not intending to uphold  this 
complaint.
BoI hasnt been able to provide me with very much information about this sale. This isnt surprising 
and its understandable  as the sale took place  in 1991. This is nearly three decades ago and 
businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.  I am grateful that Mr and Mrs M have been 
Ref: DRN34686866able to provide me with some of the paperwork  and I thank them for this which  I have carefully  
considered.
There are still some gaps in the information, so where the evidence is incomplete, I will make my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities - that is whats  more likely to have  happened taking into 
account the evidence  we do have, what both parties have said and also taking into account the wider 
circumstances including what we know generally  about these types of sales at the time.
 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr and Mrs M were  given a choice  about buying this PPI. 
Looking at the paperwork from the time, I think they would have been given a choice even if its 
understandable if Mr and Mrs M no longer remember the exact details  about choosing a PPI policy  
now after so long. I say this because I have been provided with a copy of the further advance offer 
from 1991.  On it theres reference to PPI. But this section does not mean that PPI was included 
automatically - it was a note about various types of insurance which  Mr and Mrs M could choose. The 
only condition attached to the mortgage offer was that the property was insured  for the amount set out 
- this referred  to building insurance not PPI.
Ive also seen  a copy of an insurance schedule  sent to Mr and Mrs M in 1991 showing the certificate 
of insurance, including details  about who was covered, the cost and the benefit payable. Another 
letter in November 1991 informs Mr M that the policy had been amended  in accordance with the 
summary of cover and will take effect from January 1992.the same letter also informs Mr M there 
was no need to take any action as we shall simply apply  to your bank or building society for the 
revised premium amount  in January in block capital  letters. There is also a letter  to Mr M in 1992 
informing Mr M about  a change  in insurer  for the PPI and giving the required three months  notice to 
enable Mr M to cancel the insurance.
To me this builds a picture of Mr and Mrs M being informed about the PPI at various stages. I have no 
doubt they have given me their honest  recollection  of events but it looks as though they would  have 
known at various  points about having the PPI. So if it was something they didnt want  or were not told 
about I would expect them to have questioned it at an early stage,  but Ive seen no evidence they did 
so. I can see its in Mr Ms name only and I think its likely  at some point they would  have had a 
discussion about the PPI and completed an application  form and direct debit instruction  for the cost of 
the policy.  BoI has also provided  a copy of a sample application form from 1991on  which they would 
have to complete their details if they wanted  the cover. I think this paperwork probably reflected  the 
type of application Mr and Mrs M saw. All this makes me think its more likely they made  a choice 
about taking out the cover  and chose to take out the PPI knowing they could decline it if they didnt 
want it. 
Mr and Mrs M have  also told me they felt pressured into buying the PPI. They say they were  told they 
had to have the PPI and the sales person was very persuasive and frightened them into accepting  
this policy.  They have also said that the PPI was added on without discussion. So these  two accounts 
arent consistent with each  other. I accept I cannot know what was said at the time of the sale to 
them. Its possible  that the representative told them it would be a good idea to take out the PPI. But 
thats not the same thing  as saying they had to have it. And Mr and Mrs M havent been able to give 
me any exact details about why they thought they were being pressured. Pressure  is a subjective 
matter and what one person  feels is pressure  another may not. Mr and Mrs M havent  given me 
enough for me to say they were pressured into taking out the PPI. 
I am going to look at this matter as if it were an advised sale. Im not sure if Mr and Mrs M actually 
spoke to anyone from BoI. They say they didnt but they took it out with a representative at a meeting. 
I think  it would be fair to Mr and Mrs M to look at the sale as if it were recommended  as it put more  
responsibility on the seller  for how it sold the policy. It meant that BoI needed  to take reasonable  
steps to make sure it was suitable for them. It also had to give enough clear information so that Mr 
and Mrs M could make  an informed  decision about whether or not they wanted to buy the PPI.
Mr M (the person covered)  was eligible for the PPI and as he was in good health and was in 
employment so I dont  think  hed have been affected by any of the main limitations  and exclusions 
Ref: DRN34686867which might  have made it difficult to make  a successful claim. Even when the insurer changed  in 
1992, I dont think Mr M would have been affected by any of the main exclusions  or limitations  so he 
could still have made  a successful claim.
Mr M said he would have  received six months sick pay followed by six months half sick pay and he 
also received  a salary  from another part time role. They have also told us that they would  have 
received shares allocated each  year which  could  be sold if Mr and Mrs M needed extra money. They  
have provided me with copies of the share ownership scheme which shows that some of the shares  
were sold.  So they say they didnt need the PPI. 
Ive thought about this but the PPI was taken to protect their mortgage and I think  it was suitable for 
them. The consequences of being unable  to meet mortgage repayments were  serious and having  this 
policy meant if Mr M couldnt work or lost his job his mortgage  repayments would  likely  be met.
This policy would pay out in addition to and for longer than Mr Ms full sick pay would have lasted - for 
up to 12 months. It also meant  they could  leave their shares in tact or use them for other important 
expenses at what  likely would have been a difficult time financially if Mr M couldnt work or lost his job. 
I have thought  about  Mr Ms other job. But he only worked in this for a small  number of hours so if he 
lost his main job I still think he could have made a claim  on the PPI. And although  he would  have had 
some income  from his second job this still wouldnt have covered him if he lost his main job or couldnt 
work. 
Theres nothing to make me think this policy  was unaffordable at the time and the cost seems 
reasonable for the benefit.
I wasnt there at the time so I cant  say what Mr and Mrs M were  told. Its possible that not all the 
information was as clear  as it could  have  been. But I think they chose the PPI at the time- so it looks 
like they wanted this type of cover. And for much the same reasons  I think  this policy was suitable  I 
cant say they would have  been put off buying it even if they had been  given clearer or better 
information. So I dont  think they lost out financially and I dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ive thought about all they have told me about their pension being  mis-sold and the life policy 
documents showing  who set up this policy but these are not the same things as the PPI. In this 
decision Ive only considered the PPI.
Ive also thought  about  what theyve said about the representative receiving a large bonus. But this 
doesnt make  a difference to my decision. Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in 1990 and BoI has 
provided information  and told us it ended in December  1996. Sometimes businesses will need to give 
consumers back some  of the commission paid on certain policies but this only applies to credit 
agreements taken  out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements taken out before then which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.  As Mr and Mrs Ms agreement had come to an end in 1996  the dates do not 
apply  so BoI doesnt  have to pay back any of the commission paid on the PPI policy.
 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
So unless comments or information I get from either party by 24 October  2019 change my mind, 
based on what Ive seen so far I dont plan to ask Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to do anything more to put 
things right.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3468686