K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declined  his travel insurance claim.  He is
also unhappy with the length  of time Aviva took to make a decision on the claim.
background
Mr H has travel insurance though  a bank account. Mr H made a claim for lost luggage when 
two pieces of luggage  went missing on his return from Pakistan. Mr H claimed for items such 
as clothes, make up, jewellery and other gifts bought in Pakistan. Aviva asked Mr H for 
receipts to prove his loss. Mr H was unable to unable to provide these, saying some receipts 
were lost in his luggage and he wasnt provided  receipts for some  of the other  items.
Aviva investigated the claim, including sending an agent to the shopping areas  in Pakistan, 
where Mr H bought the gifts. It later declined the claim, as it believed  Mr H had exaggerated 
the value of the items he was claiming  for. Mr H provided receipts  he says he obtained  after 
returning to Pakistan. Aviva maintained its position to decline the claim, adding  it also had 
concerns with the new evidence Mr H had provided. Mr H was unhappy that Aviva  declined 
his claim and with the time taken to make  the decision and brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that Aviva unfairly  declined the claim and asked it to settle the claim for 
the items  Mr H provided receipts for and allow him to provide more information in support of 
the rest of his claim.  Aviva  didnt agree and has asked for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 July 2019 and Ive included  my findings below. 
my provisional findings
Mr Hs policy  provides  cover for lost luggage. As Mr H said the items he claimed  for were 
gifts, I think Aviva is entitled to expect  Mr H to provide some sort of proof  of purchase for 
most of the lost items.  And because Mr H was initially  unable  to provide receipts for any of 
the items  he claimed  for, I am satisfied Aviva  was entitled to undertake  further investigations. 
Having done so, it declined the claim,  so I need  to decide whether Avivas  decision to 
decline the claim due its concerns  following  its investigations was fair and reasonable.
The policy says:
Claims Fraud  If your claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we will not pay any 
benefit under this policy and we may cancel your policy  immediately and backdate the 
cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. We may also take legal action against you.
So, Im satisfied the policy allows Aviva to decline  the entire  claim if it can show Mr H 
exaggerated his claim. Having reviewed  the report provided by Avivas agent in Pakistan,  I 
can see that the agent was unable to verify the value of the claim because most of the stores 
didnt keep sales records. The report goes on to say the agent checked the price of similar  
items to that claimed for by Mr H. In doing so, the agent felt this showed the value of the 
claim had been  exaggerated,  mentioning this several times in the report. The report  includes 
a list of the stores the agent visited, along with photos showing prices  and storefronts.
The agent  did find one store that could verify Mr Hs purchases. However, the agent raised 
further concerns  about the receipt  provided and that the prices of the items in the store  were  
not in line with the amount  on the receipt. Again, the agent felt this showed the cost of the 
claim was exaggerated.
Ref: DRN32111532Mr H provided  a statement from the owner  of the store  to say that he provided  Mr H with 
special stock and this was why the costs were  higher. He also provided further receipts  after 
going back to Pakistan.  However, Aviva still had concerns because  the owner of the store 
didnt mention the special stock to the agent  at the time and the receipts didnt seem to be in 
chronological order.
Aviva raised further concerns about the claim, including Mr H providing different reasons as 
to why he didnt  have the receipts and Mr H not being able to remember  the names  of shops.  
And I think these concerns are reasonable and I think the agents report is persuasive.  Also,  
I dont think Mr H has provided a reasonable explanation for the price  differences  found by 
the agent.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Avivas  concerns  that the claim costs were exaggerated  are 
reasonable. Therefore, I think it was entitled to decline Mr Hs entire claim. So, I wont be 
asking Aviva to pay anything towards it, as I dont think it would produce a fair and 
reasonable outcome to Mr H complaint if I made  it do this.
With regards to the time taken to investigate and decline the claim,  I dont think  it was 
unreasonable in this case. Investigations into claims  where there is a lack of supporting  
information can take time. Aviva asked Mr H for essential information to progress this claim, 
which often took Mr H some time to provide. Additionally, when it investigated the claim, it 
found further concerns as detailed above. These  concerns required further investigation  to 
ensure the correct claim decision was made.  I dont  think the length  of time taken to reach 
this decision was due poor handling by Aviva.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Mr H and Aviva have  not responded to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
any new evidence, I see no reason to alter my decision. I think  Aviva was entitled  to decline 
Mr Hs entire  claim due to reasonable concerns about exaggerated claim costs.  I also dont 
think the length of time taken to reach this decision was due poor handling by Aviva.
Ref: DRN32111533my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jamie Sutherland  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3211153