K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  and the decision it made  to reject his 
home insurance claim.
Mr S was represented in his claim,  and is now in this complaint, by a professional  person.  Ill 
mainly refer to Mr S throughout though.
background
Mr S home was subject  to a burglary, which was attended by police. He instructed a 
professional loss assessor  and they made an insurance claim to UKI. This consisted  of 
contents allegedly stolen and property that had allegedly been  damaged  during the burglary 
(albeit Mr S disputes making a property claim).
UKIs investigation agent attended Mr S home and inspected damage and made general 
enquiries with Mr S, the loss assessor and the police.  UKI became concerned about the 
information presented  in the claim; property said to have been damaged was simply a result  
of wear and tear; police  had a loss schedule that differed to the one given to UKI which was 
significantly higher;  and explanations from the loss assessor simply didnt make sense. UKI 
set out its reasons in detail in letters to Mr S dated 29 March  2018 and 15 May 2018.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  that UKI had treated Mr S 
unfairly by rejecting his claim because of the inconsistencies in the information provided and 
on the basis that it had been  exaggerated. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator stating the claim was not exaggerated and there was 
no claim for damaged property. He asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide is whether UKI was entitled to reject  Mr S claim,  and whether  
thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the policy UKI sets out a number of general conditions  that apply. Within  this section 
it says that the insured must be honest in their dealings with UKI and that UKI will not pay a 
claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.  This applies not just to the insured 
but to anyone acting on the insureds behalf.
The issues  at the centre  of this complaint can be best placed  in the following categories;
Was Mr S making a claim for damaged property?
If so, was this on the balance  of probabilities exaggerated?
Inconsistencies with the loss reported  to the police  and the higher amount claimed 
under the policy  and whether this was, on the balance of probabilities, exaggerated?
Claim for damaged property
While Mr S is adamant that he wasnt making a claim for damaged property I disagree. Initial  
reports by UKIs agents were based on scene inspections at Mr S property with his 
representative present.  The reports covered damaged aspects  of the property  in detail. It is 
Ref: DRN33697122expressly apparent  in the report that Mr S wanted  to claim for a damaged  floor and other 
areas of damage  were  pointed out and photographed.  I find it unlikely that these aspects  
would feature in the report with a narrative  that Mr S wanted to claim for them  if that wasnt  
expressed by Mr S.
In a second report by a different agent  at a later date, again  at Mr S property, it is reported 
that Mr S and his representative would like UKI to consider reinstatement of external doors 
as soon as possible. Im satisfied this corroborates the general theme that Mr S wanted  to 
claim for property damage allegedly  caused by the burglars.
Was this exaggerated
The inspection reports are, in my view, very persuasive that items such  as a stool, doors and 
floor were  not damaged during the burglary.  From the inspectors reports I am persuaded 
that these items were,  on the balance of probabilities, already in a damaged  state before the 
burglary. For example, the floor was alleged to have been damaged by an internal door 
being forcefully opened. No evidence of force was found and the door hinges  were aligned 
and in tact. It was not thought that the damage was caused during the burglary. And I am 
persuaded by the report.
The doors said to have suffered damage  were  found to have minimal signs  of damage and 
were in a generally  poor condition. The entry door (for the burglary) was found to open 
outwards yet the majority  of visible damage  was on the internal side. The door had been 
poorly installed and because it opened outwards, if it had been locked and was the entry  
point then excessive  force would have been  needed to open  it. But the external damage was 
minimal.
I am persuaded by the reports that the doors  were, on the balance of probabilities, not 
damaged in any way near the extent  that Mr S claimed during  the burglary. And as such I 
think it was reasonable  for UKI to conclude the property  damage claim was exaggerated.  If 
UKI had paid out as claimed then it would have suffered a financial detriment and Mr S 
would have benefitted where  he wasnt contractually  entitled to.
Loss inconsistencies
The issue  here is that the list Mr S claimed under his policy was almost £9,000 more than 
the loss reported to the police. Mr S has given an explanation as to how this occurred that 
one was a draft list and one was the final list. The circumstances of how this apparently 
occurred are what concerned UKI;
Mr S maintained there  was only ever one loss schedule but this was found  to be 
incorrect
His explanation  once it was pointed out there  were two, was that the representatives 
secretary had deleted  a copy 
His secretary had completed  a new schedule from dictation tapes but deleted the 
electronic copy
Having read all the information provided by the parties I am persuaded by UKI that the 
inconsistencies were  something to be rightly concerned about. Information  from Mr S 
representative was contradictory and lacked  credibility when assimilated with all the 
information at the time. 
It follows that I need to consider whether the contents side of the claim - that is the list of 
items claimed as stolen   is, on the balance  of probabilities, exaggerated.  
Ref: DRN33697123There is a clear difference of around  £9,000  between what was reported to police and what 
was claimed for. The explanation for this was, in my view, lacking in logic and 
persuasiveness. And an explanation was only forthcoming  against the insistence of the 
representative when  the difference in the schedules was pointed out as fact by UKI. Up to 
that point the representative insisted there was only ever one list. 
Whether Mr S suffered a burglary isnt of itself in issue but that doesnt  mean  the entirety of 
what Mr S subsequently claims should  be accepted  without investigation or challenge by 
UKI. Parties have to deal with each other  in good  faith and whats  apparent  is that there are 
significant issues of inconsistencies in the claim presented that have led UKI to reject  Mr S 
claim. I am persuaded  that Mr S claimed  for damage that wasnt,  on the balance  of 
probabilities, caused  during the burglary. And given  the condition of the property it is likely 
Mr S was aware the items,  including  the doors, were already damaged. And as such, Im 
satisfied it was fair of UKI to conclude Mr S was seeking to claim for items he knew  he was 
entitled to claim for. That in my view is an exaggeration.
And similarly there was an issue with the items  he claimed were stolen. He claimed  the 
stolen goods amounted  to around  £9,000 more than those he reported to police. That in my 
view is an exaggeration.
Thinking about  whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im satisfied that UKIs  
rejection is fair. I have  considered the extent of the exaggeration  where exaggeration is 
negligible then it might be a breach  of the policy but not necessarily such that would 
automatically lead to the entirety of a claim being fairly rejected. The exaggeration in this 
case has led to doubts about what was actually  taken. Even though  Mr S may be willing  to 
withdraw any claim for property damage  and accept less for the contents claim, the 
inconsistencies and exaggeration are of such significance that Im not satisfied it would  be 
fair to require UKI to pay any part of Mr S claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint against  U K Insurance Limited as Im satisfied UKI has acted  
within the policy terms and its decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3369712