K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let portfolio mortgage that SIL (a limited company) took out 
with Santander  UK Plc in 2018. SILs directors, Mrs and Mr G, complain that Santander held 
up completion, caused SIL to incur  unexpected  legal bills and provided  poor service  when 
they were pressing it to release the money.
background
SIL approached Santander for a mortgage  to fund the purchase of properties for its portfolio. 
SIL had a target date for completion, and Santander  emailed to confirm it was working 
towards a proposed drawdown date of 27 March 2018. Unfortunately, that date passed  
before Santander  was in a position to approve the mortgage, issue  an offer and release the 
funds. SILs  directors had to borrow money  from family to complete the purchase. 
Mrs and Mr G, as SILs directors, complain that Santander failed to comply  with a guarantee 
it gave regarding the drawdown  date.  Theyre also unhappy that Santanders  legal costs  
ended up being  almost double what theyd expected (around £1,200 instead of £600  + VAT) 
and that they incurred  their own solicitors bill of £250 + VAT because of last minute 
conditions imposed by Santander.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Santander had done anything  wrong.  SILs complaint has come  
to me because Mrs and Mr G want it reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
SILs directors Mrs and Mr G, but although  Ive read and considered  the whole file Ill keep 
my comments to what I think  is relevant.  If I dont comment on any specific  point its not 
because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to 
reach the right outcome.  
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party. Were required to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable having assessed all of the available  evidence  from the parties.
The case  is simpler than its been  made to look. Nothing in the evidence  Ive seen points to 
Santander having guaranteed that the money  would be available by 27 March  2018. The 
most that Santander  said, in my view, is that it would do its best to meet that date, and I think 
it did that. Ultimately, it took longer before Santander was satisfied that it could lend, and 
thats unfortunate. But the underwriting process took as long as it took, and Santander didnt 
unduly delay making a decision. 
Its my understanding that SIL had already committed to a completion date before starting 
the application. That being  so, and in the absence of evidence  of undue  delays on 
Santanders part, Im afraid SIL must bear the responsibility for any consequences of that 
date not being met.
Its standard practice  for the borrower in a transaction to pay the lenders  legal costs.  Whilst, 
in this case, the eventual  bill may have been higher than initially  expected,  the total itself 
Ref: DRN37872152wasnt unreasonable for the work that Santanders  solicitors needed to do before completion 
could take place.
As to the bill SIL had to pay to its own solicitor, that didnt  arise because Santander caused 
extra work at the last minute, as Mrs and Mr G say in the complaint form. It was because  a 
condition of the lending was that Mrs and Mr G obtain independent legal advice of their own 
before giving personal guarantees for SILs loan. Theres nothing  untoward in that; its 
completely normal in transactions of this type.
I appreciate all of this was stressful for Mrs and Mr G, but overall I dont think  Santander  
failed them or delivered a poor service to SIL. In my view, it did its best in a short  period of 
time.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G, as 
SILs directors, to accept  or reject my decision before 15 May 2019.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787215