K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that the Civil Service Healthcare  Society Limited (CS Healthcare) has 
turned down her private medical  insurance claim, on the basis that her condition is chronic. 
Mrs S is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr S. 
background
Mrs S was diagnosed with polymyalgia rheumatica. She wanted CS Healthcare  to authorise 
quarterly consultations  with her specialist, so he could monitor her condition.
CS Healthcare turned down the claim.  It thought Mrs Ss condition was chronic  and therefore 
excluded under the policy. Unhappy  with this, Mr S brought a complaint to this service  on 
behalf of his wife. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the policy  covers  short-
term treatment  for acute conditions, and he didnt think that included the consultations Mrs S 
wanted CS Healthcare to cover. Consequently, he thought it was fair for CS Healthcare to 
rely on the chronic condition exclusion to turn down the claim. 
Mr S, on behalf of his wife, didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter  has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy covers short-term treatment  of acute conditions. It explains that means those 
conditions, diseases  or illnesses  that respond  to short-term treatment with the aim of 
returning someone to the state  of health they were in before suffering  the disease,  illness  or 
injury. The policy doesnt cover treatment of a chronic or long-term  condition.  It defines 
chronic medical condition as:
A disease, illness or injury which has at least one of the following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, 
checkups, and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control  or relief  of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back  or is likely to come back
Ref: DRN37056782The policy also explains  that for chronic  conditions,  benefit will be provided for the initial 
consultation and investigations, and between two and three further  consultations to allow  the 
medical condition  to become stable. 
I see that Mrs S was diagnosed with polymyalgia rheumatica during  a consultation with her 
specialist on 14 February 2018. CS Healthcare  agreed to cover this initial  consultation as 
well as the next three consultations. The dispute  is that CS Healthcare refused  to pay for any 
further consultations. 
My role isnt to say whether or not I think  the condition of polymyalgia  rheumatica is 
medically chronic. Instead,  I need to decide  whether it was reasonable for CS Healthcare  to 
turn down the claim because it thinks the condition  falls under its policy  definition  of a 
chronic condition.  
In November 2018, Mrs Ss specialist  (Prof  M) said hed been  seeing Mrs S for management 
of her condition and she was being actively treated for this with medication. He explained the 
medication needs regular review and he would need  to see her roughly every three months  
for management of her condition, with a slow reduction of the medication.  
A month later, Prof M said he thought  the condition was likely to resolve on its own in the 
next year to 18 months. In the meantime, he said the treatment would cure  the condition,  in 
that it would  suppress activity of the condition, therefore preventing  consequent  symptoms. 
I note that Prof M had already  been monitoring/treating Mrs Ss condition for ten months 
before explaining that he thought  it was likely  to resolve in the next year to 18 months. 
We dont know that the condition  would  resolve after that time, but even if it did - that would 
mean Mrs S would have  needed to be monitored by Prof M for around two years.  I think its 
therefore fair to say that the condition needed long-term monitoring through consultations 
and/or long-term  control or relief of symptoms.  
Consequently, I dont think it was unreasonable for CS Healthcare to conclude  that Mrs Ss 
condition fell under  the policy definition of chronic  condition, and therefore turn down her 
claim. 
Mr S has recently told us that his wife didnt respond  to the treatment  for polymyalgia 
rheumatica, and that further  investigations  have found that she sadly has cancer and has 
started treatment for this. 
Mr S says that CS Healthcare  withdrew benefit  before  his wifes diagnosis had been 
completed. However, CS Healthcare didnt know the diagnosis of polymyalgia rheumatica 
may not be correct, or that Mrs S was having further investigations to try and find an 
alternative diagnosis.  
I would like to make it clear my conclusion that CS Healthcare acted reasonably in turning 
down Mrs Ss claim for further consultations  related only to her diagnosis of polymyalgia  
rheumatica. As we now know that diagnosis was incorrect, Mrs S may wish to contact CS 
Healthcare to see if she is able to make  a claim under the policy for any treatment  she may 
need for cancer. 
On a personal note,  Id like to wish Mrs S all the best in her treatment. 
Ref: DRN37056783my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3705678