K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that he was unfairly  prevented from placing a trade from one of his 
accounts with Barclays Bank UK Plc.
background
Mr L has/had  a General Investment Account (GIA) and an Individual  Savings Account (ISA). 
On 2 August  2018 he sought to buy Legal & General shares from his ISA through  Barclays 
online trading  platform.  He was prevented from doing so because of an outstanding service  
fee. He learnt about this and paid the fee on the same date. However, Mr L still could not 
make the trade online because Barclays  system  updated such  payments only twice a day 
and his payment  missed  the second  update  so it was not cleared until the following day.
Mr L was out of the country at the time and returned  around 10 August, immediately after 
which he addressed  the matter  further.  Before then,  he also appears to have placed an order 
for the purchase  which had not been  triggered because the price set within  it was not 
reached. The shares were then bought on 15 August at a higher price.  In the main, his 
position is that:
He was unfairly prevented from making the trade on 2 August even after he paid the 
outstanding fee  it is unacceptable that in a live trading environment  Barclays 
system is limited to updating/clearing fee payments  only twice per day.
His GIA was nominated for payment of the relevant fee. However, he sought to trade 
from his ISA which was sufficiently funded. His trade from the ISA, for which no fee 
was outstanding, should not have been  restricted by a fee payment outstanding from 
the GIA.
The suggestion that he could and should  have used telephone  trading as an 
alternative to buy the shares is unreasonable. The service he paid for was online 
trading and that was the service  he was entitled  to.
He had to buy the shares on 15 August in order to avoid missing the dividend cut-off, 
which had always been his intention. The unreasonableness in what  he faced in the 
matter and the lack of notice in Barclays terms and conditions that he could face 
such a scenario resulted directly in his financial loss due to buying the shares at a 
higher price on 15 August than he could and would  have on 2 August. Barclays  is 
responsible for this loss.
Barclays disagrees. It stands by its system for updating/clearing  fee payments and explains 
that online trading  restrictions  would only be lifted when payment of an account debt is 
updated and cleared.  It asserts  that Mr Ls trade would  have  been  processed after his 
payment if he used the telephone service   which it says he should  have done. It also says 
that the GIA was the nominated source for the fee that was due and the fee related to 
trading on its platform, hence the restriction Mr L faced. Despite these  views,  Barclays 
conceded that the matter had caused Mr L inconvenience and offered him £100 in this 
respect.
The complaint was referred  to this service and one of our investigators considered it. He 
concluded that Mr Ls claim for compensation (for financial  loss) should not be upheld,  for 
broadly the same reasons  as those Barclays asserted. Mr L did not accept this outcome. 
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34196892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The outstanding fee is not in dispute and Mr Ls payment of it on 2 August is not in dispute. 
The same appears to apply to evidence that Mr L could not trade online on 2 August 
because his payment  was not cleared by Barclays until the following day; that he could trade 
online from 3 August onwards: that the fee was due from the GIA and related to the online 
platform trading service; that Mr L did not use the telephone trading option;  and that he 
bought the shares on 15 August.
Barclays has offered £100 for the inconvenience  experienced by Mr L in the matter and the 
suggestion appears to be that this offer remains open. If this payment has not been 
accepted I invite  Mr L to consider it, as it appears to be a reasonable form of compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused to him by what he considers to be an unreasonable  delay in 
clearing his payment.  
For the sake of clarity, I do not find that Barclays conducted itself unreasonably. It has 
described what primarily appears to be an automated clearing system applied twice  daily, 
but evidence is that whilst  the restriction in the online  trading  service was subject to this the 
telephone trading service was not. The implication is that, overall, trading was not only 
subjected to the automated clearing system. The fee payment could have been  manually  
updated in the course  of a telephone trade. The automated system should  be viewed in this 
context. 
Nevertheless, I can understand  why Barclays acknowledged the inconvenience that Mr L 
would have perceived from the automated system, hence my invitation for him to consider its 
£100 offer. 
The key consideration in the complaint is the telephone trading alternative Mr L did not use  
which, it appears, would  have  included  a service in which his payment would have been 
manually updated/cleared. I understand his point about paying for and relying  upon  the 
online service. However,  the key questions are whether (or not) Barclays  really prevented 
his purchase of the shares on 2 August (or is responsible for his inability  to purchase the 
shares on that date) and/or  whether  (or not) he mitigated the matter.
The telephone trading  alternative means  that Barclays cannot reasonably be said to have 
hindered Mr Ls ability  to purchase  the shares. Any argument about fault on its part based on 
the restriction in the online service becomes arguably redundant  in the context  of 
opportunity to purchase the shares   where  there  is evidence that the purchase  could have 
taken place through the telephone and where  there  is no evidence of fault in Barclays 
telephone trading service at the time.  
In light of this conclusion, any debate about  the legitimacy of the online trading restriction 
and/or debate over the correlation between  the two accounts (including how fees due from 
one should or should not affect trading in the other) appear to fall away. The main issue for 
Mr L is that he considers  his ability to trade  on 2 August to have  been  hindered,  but evidence 
suggests that his opportunity to trade was not hindered. He could have traded through  the 
telephone service. 
Ref: DRN34196893For the sake of completeness, it appears  that the outstanding fee related (wholly or partly)  to 
the trading platform  which Mr L sought to use for the purchase.  It does not appear to have  
mattered that the nominated source  for payment of the outstanding fee was the GIA and/or 
that the source for the purchase  was the ISA. In either case, the fee appears to have related 
to the trading platform which  he sought to us at the time, hence the restriction.
Given the telephone trading alternative, by electing  not to use it and in the absence  of 
evidence that he was prevented from using it (or that it could not be used) Mr L does not 
appear to have mitigated the matter.  This conclusion applies even if there is merit in his 
argument about the online service  restriction. It is also arguable  that lack of mitigation on his 
part extended from 3 August, when the restriction would have been lifted, to 15 August when 
the purchase was eventually  made. I understand if he sought to wait for a price  that closely  
matched the price  as it was on 2 August but he would have known that was not guaranteed. 
By waiting,  he appears to have compromised his ability to mitigate the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint but I invite  him to consider  
Barclays Bank UK Plcs  offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419689