K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mr K complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a theft claim they 
made on their home insurance policy.
Ref: DRN34648452background
In November 2018, Mr K said he was mugged while on his way home  from a friends house. 
He said two pieces  of jewellery  were  stolen. He made a claim to AXA for the stolen items. 
AXA appointed an adjuster to look into the claim. The adjuster visited Mr K to find out whatd 
happened. The adjuster  had some concerns about  the claim.  Mr K said hed owned the 
jewellery for years but had only specified  it a few months before the claim. Mr K said one of 
the pieces of jewellery had been a gift and the other  was bought from a friend whod owed 
him money.  Mr K said hed been  on his way home  from a friends  when the mugging 
happened  but he wouldnt give any details about his friends  name or address. 
Mr K didnt have any proof  of ownership  of the items and hed estimated  their value based 
on what hed seen  in shop windows. He provided  some photos which he said showed him 
wearing the items. But Mr K couldnt  say where  the photos had been  taken.  And he said the 
original photos  had been wiped from his phone. The adjuster also thought it was unlikely that 
Mr K wouldve  been  wearing both items together. And hed provided inconsistent  details 
about whatd happened after the theft.  While hed shown the adjuster photos of injuries he 
said hed sustained in the mugging, hed made  a similar claim a few years previously and it 
wasnt clear when these  photos had been taken.
Based on the adjusters concerns, AXA told Mr K itd need further information before it would 
consider the claim  further. In particular, it asked  for further explanations about the injuries  
Mr K said hed suffered;  the circumstances of the theft and for an explanation about  the 
photos hed provided. Mr K responded to AXA, but it wasnt satisfied by his explanation. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with the way AXA was handling his claim and he complained.  But AXA 
maintained it needed  more information from Mr K before it would look at his claim further. So 
Mr K asked us to look into his complaint.
After Mr K brought his claim to us, he told us AXA decided to turn down his claim. AXA let 
our investigator know it was happy  for her to look into this issue as part of this complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ks complaint should be upheld.  She said the policy  terms 
and conditions explained that AXA might  require evidence to support a claim. In this case,  
while she accepted  Mr K likely had owned jewellery  items, she didnt think  there  was enough  
evidence to show hed owned the items  (like a valuation) or that hed been wearing them  at 
the time he said the mugging had happened. Overall, she felt itd been reasonable for AXA 
to turn down  Mr Ks claim.
Mr K disagreed. He didnt  think AXA had treated him fairly. Thats because another  insurer 
had settled his previous  claim based  only on photos. He said he didnt know  he needed to 
keep evidence of ownership. He told us hed been  wearing both chains at the same time,  
because he was able to wear whatever he wanted.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  it was fair for AXA 
to turn down  Mr K and Mr Ks claim. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN34648453Mr K has provided a crime reference number for the mugging, although there isnt an 
accompanying police report.  So it seems he did go through a very distressing incident and 
Im sorry  to hear about  the injuries  he received. 
But in deciding this complaint, I need to consider what the terms of Mr K and Mr Ks policy  
say and whether  I think AXA has handled  the claim reasonably. The policy  says:
What you must do after you make a claim
To help prove your claim we may require you to provide original purchase  receipts,  invoices,
bank or credit card statements, instruction booklets, photographs, utility  bills, pre-purchase
surveys or plans and deeds of your property. To help assist  in dealing with your claim we 
may require  you to obtain estimates for the replacement or repair of damaged property.
We will only ask for information relevant to your claim and we will pay for any reasonable
expenses you incur  in providing us with the above  information as part of your claim. 
So the policy  makes  it clear that AXAs  entitled to ask for evidence to prove  that a 
policyholder owned the things theyre claiming for. 
In this case, AXA had some  concerns  about  Mr Ks claim   some of which Ive set out above.  
In particular, it felt there was very little evidence available to show  Mr K had owned the high-
value jewellery  hed claimed  for. It also felt it wouldve  been  unlikely that both items wouldve 
been worn at the same time. So AXA decided  to appoint a claims adjuster. I think  this was a 
reasonable course of action for AXA to take. Thats  because I think it was entitled to be 
satisfied that the mugging had happened in the way Mr K described and that he owned  the 
things hed claimed for.
The adjuster  had questions about the information Mr K had given her. She felt the 
circumstances of the loss were unusual and Mr K wouldnt provide information to help 
corroborate his version of events. Mr K couldnt  give much information  about where the 
photos he sent in were  taken and he couldnt provide digital copies. He also had no 
insurance valuations  or purchase receipts  or anything to show  how hed got the jewellery. 
And although he said hed owned  the jewellery for years, he hadnt  specified it until a few 
months before he made the claim.  While Ive noted  Mr Ks explanations,  I think it was fair for 
AXA to feel like he hadnt satisfactorily addressed its concerns. 
Ive also considered whether it was fair for AXA to ask Mr K to provide proof of ownership for 
the jewellery hed claimed for. We often take the view that expecting  a policyholder to 
provide strict  proof  of ownership for items theyve claimed for is unreasonable.  But, in this 
case, the combined specified value of the items was £15,000.  Mr K gave conflicting 
information about how he acquired one of the items  he told us both that it was exchanged 
for a debt and that hed bought it from a friend. And he said the other item was a gift. There  
was no insurance  valuation to support the value and ownership  of the items. 
Mr K did provide photos of himself wearing  some jewellery. But he wasnt  able to tell AXA 
where the photos were taken, or when. He had no digital copies either.  It seems  to me that 
Mr K likely did own some gold jewellery. But it isnt clear that this is what  hes claiming for 
and theres very little detail in the photos  to show what carat  the jewellery was; what  weight it 
was or what  length.  So there simply doesnt seem  to be enough for me to find that AXA 
should accept  and settle Mr Ks claim based on these photos. 
Ref: DRN34648454It seems  to me that in the round, AXA had a number of concerns about Mr Ks claim and 
whether hed shown,  on balance, it was valid. And as Mr K had refused  to give AXA his 
friends details, it wasnt able to verify Mr Ks version of events, or whether  he was wearing 
both items  at the same time.
Based on the adjusters findings,  I think it was reasonable  for AXA to conclude Mr K hadnt 
shown he had a valid claim. I also think its concerns havent been appropriately addressed  
by him. While a past insurer  mayve  been able to settle a past claim based on photos alone, 
this doesnt mean AXA is obliged to do the same. Given AXAs concerns, I think  it was fair 
for it to turn down Mr Ks claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr K and Mr Ks 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 September 2020.
Lisa Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3464845