K822xcomplaint
Ms H has complained about the time it took Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz)  to settle the claim 
she made on her buildings insurance  policy  and complete the repairs.
background
Ms H contacted Allianz to make a claim for escape  of water in her property in June 2017. 
Allianz appointed a loss adjuster and a contractor to ensure the lounge was dried out so 
repairs could begin.
On 4 September 2017 Ms Hs arranged  to have new carpets in her lounge  believing it was 
dry. But she was told the floors were still too damp for the new carpets to be fitted. So 
Allianzs contractor was recalled to assess the moisture readings. 
Allianz reassessed the room, and on 29 September 2017 it said heat mats would need to be 
installed to help dry the lounge. And in early October  it was agreed the furniture would need 
removing for these to be installed. The furniture was removed and the heat mats  installed  on 
4 December 2017.
Drying certificates were provided  by Allianzs  contractor  on 26 January 2018.
Ms H is suffering from a serious illness and made Allianz aware of this during the claim 
process. She complained about  the disturbance caused by the humidifiers which  it said 
needed to be on 24 hours a day. She also explained  how she felt its contractor had failed to 
take the correct  steps to dry her property first. This meant works werent completed until 
after Christmas  a time she wanted  to enjoy  with her family  with the full use of her house  
including the lounge. And she is upset  that she lost the ability to do this.
Allianz said there is inevitably some inconvenience  when  repair  works are needed.  But it felt 
there had been  some  avoidable delays caused during the repair  process and to apologise 
for this it offered £200.
Our investigator looked at Ms Hs complaint and said he didnt think £200  was fair to reflect 
the impact of the distress and inconvenience  Allianz  had caused.  And he recommended this 
be increased to £400  in total.
Allianz agreed to increase the payment to £400 and also said it will provide a letter of 
apology for the inconvenience it has caused.  Ms H doesnt think this is enough. She hasnt 
been able to place a figure on what she feels is reasonable, but has been very clear  in 
explaining how she doesnt feel Allianz  has treated her fairly through the process  of the 
claim. She also said Allianz  failed to pay the storage provider for her furniture promptly  
causing further distress  and inconvenience  since the complaint has been  with us. 
Because Ms H disagreed  with the investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  the offer put forward by 
Ref: DRN31187432Allianz following  our investigators  recommendation is fair. I know Ms H doesnt agree with 
this, but Ill explain  why.
This claim  was ongoing for some time and Ms H has also experienced a number of issues 
with her contents insurance provider. It is clear overall the situation has caused her a great  
deal of distress and has added to what is a very difficult time for her. 
Ms H said there have been issues with the payment for the storage costs for her furniture 
while the complaint  has been with us. This wasnt something Ms H raised  with Allianz  as part 
of this complaint,  and it hasnt had an opportunity to respond to this. The crux of the 
complaint Ive considered is about  the impact of Allianzs actions when repairing Ms Hs 
property after the escape of water  claim.  Any ongoing issues  Ms H has with Allianz on her 
buildings insurance  claim or with her separate contents insurer  will need to be raised  with 
them separately to allow their response.
It isnt disputed that Allianz failed to let Ms H know the floor in her lounge was still damp.  And 
it gave her misleading information  about it being  ready for the new carpets to be laid. Allianz 
said it agrees it is responsible for some  delays in the claim process,  but it feels  some of the 
inconvenience Ms H has complained about  has to be expected when  repair works are 
needed.
I understand Ms Hs comments  about  how loud and disruptive the dehumidifiers  were and 
why this would have been an inconvenience.  However, I have to bear in mind the damage 
that Allianz needed to repair and the use of these machines isnt uncommon to aid the drying 
process. Without these  it is reasonable to believe the process could have taken longer and 
left Ms H without the use of her lounge for a prolonged period of time.
When Allianz told Ms H heat mats would be needed to make  sure the room was completely 
dry, they werent  installed  for almost  two months. I think  this likely added  delay to the drying  
process and had this been recommended sooner,  Ms H might have had use of her lounge 
during the Christmas period. I feel this delay will have  caused  distress and inconvenience 
above what could  be expected when  repair works  are needed.
Deciding what amount  is fair to reflect the impact of distress and inconvenience  isnt an 
exact science.  And Ms H herself has said she isnt sure what would be a fair amount. What 
is clear from speaking with her a number  of times  is that this whole claim process has 
caused her a great deal of inconvenience and distress. 
Ms H has told us that she doesnt  often use her lounge. And Ive considered this when 
thinking about the impact for her when not having full use of the room for a prolonged period. 
Unfortunately delays here meant  Ms H wasnt able to use her lounge  during the festive  
period and this is understandably upsetting. But I think  the offer made  to pay £400.00 for the 
impact of this together with a letter  of apology is fair. It reflects  the delays its actions caused 
and the fact that Ms Hs property could have  been  dried sooner.
Ref: DRN31187433my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Allianz Insurance PLC should pay Ms H a total of £400.00 for the distress  and inconvenience  
its actions have had on her. (If anything has been  paid previously  following  its final 
response, this can be deducted from its final payment now).
I also think its fair that Allianz  provides Ms H with the letter  of apology it offered for its 
actions when it makes this payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3118743