K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr M and Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2005. Mr M and Mrs A paid for the 
PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered their mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M and Mrs As case. 
Ive decided that Mr M and Mrs As PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of the time thats passed,  Halifax  dont have all the documents from the sale.  But 
we have seen  sample  copies  of the documents Mr M and Mrs A wouldve used at the time of 
their sale.  From that, it looks like they wouldve been given a choice about  whether theyd  
like PPI, and in order to get the policy they wouldve had to active  choose it. And it looks  like 
the cost of the PPI wouldve been set out separately to the cost of the mortgage, rather  than 
as something that was necessarily included for instance. I do have the record of Mr M and 
Mrs As advice,  which records that the adviser went through their circumstances and 
recommended several products. Its recorded  that Mr M and Mrs A turned  down  other 
recommended products  but chose PPI. The record of the advice was then sent to Mr M and 
Mrs A. Lastly, the key facts document reiterated  that Mr M and Mrs A didnt  have to buy any 
insurance from Halifax if they didnt want to. Overall, I think  that Halifax  made Mr M and 
Mrs A aware they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time  even  if, understandably, they no longer  remember  doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M and Mrs A, so it had to check it was right for them.  
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr M and Mrs A werent affected by any of the policys  main exclusions or limitations. While 
they had sick pay through  work,  the PPI paid out on top of that, and covered them  more  
comprehensively, especially when their sick pay reduced to just half pay. And they dont 
seem to have had any other cover in case of unemployment. Its worth bearing  in mind that if 
Mr M and Mrs A fell behind on their mortgage payments, they risked losing their home. So 
I think the PPI couldve  really been useful for them in protecting  their home and giving some 
peace of mind.
Ref: DRN36887712Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr M and Mrs A about  PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr M and Mrs A chose  PPI, which  implies  they 
wanted this type of cover. As I said above, they werent affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt  cover, and it wouldve been useful for Mr M and Mrs A if something went  
wrong. The policy wasnt expensive, and if Mr M or Mrs As circumstances changed they 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  So taking everything into account, I dont think  
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr M and Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M and Mrs A 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3688771