K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about advice from Greystone Financial Services  Limited (Greystone) to 
invest in an unregulated investment, Rock Acton Gate Limited Partnership (Rock Acton), 
via his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) recommended  to him in July 2004.
Mr B has several other complaints with this service relating to investments which were held 
in his SIPP and a personal pension  plan (PPP).  These are being  considered  separately.
background
In July 2004 Greystone advised  Mr B to invest £25,000 of his A J Bell SIPP in Rock Acton  
this was an unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS). Mr Bs A J Bell SIPP was 
valued at around  £338,340, whilst his total pension  fund was valued at £715,342 (as of 
February 2004).
Greystone provided  Mr B with a recommendation letter  dated  6 July 2004  (the letter) and 
product literature about Rock Acton  including  risk warnings. The main  points  from these 
documents were  that:
It was a commercial property investment being  let to a major  retail company; 
Its projected yearly total returns were  11.5% over a seven and half year period;
Under key points  it was noted there  was a particularly  strong  demand  for the 
property and the investment offered exposure to an asset  class  that has performed 
particularly well over the last ten years compared to other UK asset classes; 
It was highly geared and represented a small initial outlay when compared to the 
overall investment;
It was unregulated so not covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial  
Services Compensation Scheme.
The adviser said he was recommending  this UCIS  because it invests  in good quality 
commercial property, has a highly secure  tenant, an intended investment term of seven and 
a half years, a small initial capital  outlay, compliments (sic) your overall portfolio and I 
believe it is suitable given  your realistic attitude to risk.
Mr Bs personal circumstances at this time were  broadly as follows:
-He was in his late 50s and was married  with no dependent children;
-His main assets consisted  of money  owed to him by his employer for two months 
consultancy work  of £14,000  and £18,000  under the Employers SAYE scheme;  
-He jointly  owned his home  valued  in 2003 at £400,000 with no mortgage; 
-He had ISA/ PEP holdings valued at nearly £37,000.
In October  2010 Greystone wrote  to Mr B informing him that his investment had suffered a 
paper loss of 41%. It noted  this was better  than the previous  year and that the loss was 
almost entirely due to the adverse effects  of gearing i.e. bank  debt, when the value of an 
asset falls below the initial purchase  cost. Greystone added that commercial property 
values had fallen  below  their peak just before the credit crisis in 2008. But despite  these  
issues, Greystone noted it considered the investment was still an attractive asset given  the 
commercial property was still being let to a major retail company.
Ref: DRN33563282In March 2012 a letter  was sent to investors of Rock Acton advising them  that a prospective 
purchaser had withdrawn from acquiring  the property at the last minute. It went on to say this 
would mean  thered be no prospect  of a sale in the near future. By the time of this 
notification, Mr B had already started to have concerns  about  the investment, so he 
complained to Greystone about  its advice.  Amongst other things, he said the Rock  Acton  
investment should  never have been recommended  to him as it wasnt  suitable  in light of his 
attitude to risk. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint. In brief, he concluded  that given the number of 
risks involved in an investment of this type,  this didnt  meet  Mr Bs attitude to risk and was 
therefore, an unsuitable recommendation. Along with financial compensation for any losses 
suffered, our adjudicator awarded Mr B £250  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to 
his pension planning.
Greystone disagreed with the adjudicators view. In summary, it said:
Mr B was made aware,  in meetings and in written advice, that there were risks 
associated with the search for greater potential  rewards  he understood this and 
was prepared to accept it;
Given Mr B held a medium or balanced attitude to risk (as is confirmed in the 
contemporaneous documents on file), the investment in a UCIS  was suitable to be 
held as part of a diversified portfolio  his attitude  to risk was consistent with his 
financial objectives of focusing on retirement/pension planning,  seeking  potential 
capital growth and diversifying his overall  portfolio;
In order to seek potential higher  than average  returns, as Mr B wanted,  investors  
must accept a higher than average  degree of risk  Mr B was prepared to do this;
Mr B was a sophisticated  investor, engaged and experienced in this arena as well as 
being a successful businessman;
Mr B reviewed  and understood the suitability  report and product literature provided to 
him at the time, which highlighted the nature  and risks.  He signed the Risk Warning 
Notice which expressly confirmed  hed understood the risks;
An investment  should  not be viewed in isolation  it was part of a balanced portfolio 
for an investor with a medium  or balanced  attitude to risk;
The fact that a product is unregulated does not of itself make it an unsuitable 
investment;
It was not the advice  but the unprecedented and unforeseeable fall in the commercial 
property market which caused the fall in value of the fund  the investment was 
considered appropriate  for the time and should  only be viewed in light of the 
information and practices of the time;
The suggested redress based on achieving returns to reflect  50% FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index and 50% average return from fixed  rate bonds, 
is not credible in Mr Bs case;
The £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  isnt fair, as when put 
together with the other awards in his other  complaints,  Mr B will be over 
compensated;
There is no basis on for this complaint to be split from Mr Bs other  complaints.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter has been passed to me for decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN33563283Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint for the following reasons:
Before I explain my reasoning, whilst I appreciate the strength of feelings on both sides, it 
isnt my role to address all the questions and issues that each party has raised. My role is to 
concentrate on the issues directly  relevant  to the outcome of the case and to make a 
decision based on what I think are the central  issues. So whilst Ive taken into account 
everything thats been submitted, I may not comment on every  single  point thats been 
raised. 
Mr Bs attitude to risk
Mr Bs attitude to risk at the time of the advice was assessed as realistic.  This term wasnt  
defined at the time, but I can see that in another recommendation letter dated 21 April 2007,  
the adviser recorded Mr Bs intention to withdraw the maximum tax-free  cash  and income via 
his Transact PPP. The letter confirmed  Mr Bs attitude to risk was realistic which he said 
meant that he (Mr B) was willing to take a more adventurous profile to achieve your goals  
and that this may give rise to the possibility of short  term rises and falls and overall volatility  
in the value of your capital.
Greystone explained  Mr Bs attitude further  in their submissions to this service saying that 
Mr B had a medium  and balanced attitude to risk. This meant in order to seek potential 
higher than average returns, Mr B accepted  a higher  than average degree of risk. But this 
assessment seems contradictory  to other assessments  made about  Mr B by Greystone over 
the years  of advising him. 
In April 2002 Greystone  assessed Mr B as having  a low/medium profile   low being 
someone who would want to invest in 100% with profits  investment and medium  being 
someone whod invest in 50% with profits and 50% managed funds. At that time, Mr Bs 
recorded number  one priority in terms of his finances, was the security of his pension. It was 
also noted that he didnt mind a reasonable  degree  of risk in the hope his benefits  could be 
higher in retirement. 
I accept this assessment  was made  prior to the Rock Acton advice in 2004, but I cant see 
that Mr Bs circumstances by that time had changed  so significantly that it could  be argued 
he was now willing to take higher than average degree of risk.  Add to this that Greystone 
assessed Mr B as cautious/ realistic in May 2006,  it seems  somewhat contradictory of 
Greystone to now say he was willing  to take higher than average degree of risks or that he 
(Mr B) could  be categorised as adventurous, when even by their own statements, this 
doesnt appear to be the case.
Further, a willingness to take a higher than average  degree of risk isnt consistent with what 
Id regard as a low/medium  or cautious attitude to investment risk. Or indeed  with 
someone who regarded  the security  of their pension as their number one priority as Mr B 
had said in 2002. And whilst Mr B did have some assets outside his SIPP  and PPP (and 
leaving aside his home), these were relatively modest  in comparison to the size of his 
pension fund. I dont  think his wider financial position meant  Mr B could afford to take a 
higher degree  of risk with his pension fund. 
Ref: DRN33563284So taking everything Ive said into account,  I consider  that whilst Mr B may have been willing 
to take some  risks with his capital to achieve  returns needed to support him in his retirement, 
his attitude to risk was low to medium. And that he was on the lower side of medium. 
The recommendation  was it suitable?
In terms of the recommendation itself I can see Rock Acton was a UCIS  this was a highly 
leveraged fund which meant that whilst returns could be enhanced if the assets increased in 
value, losses could  be magnified too. The regulator  has said: UCIS are generally regarded  
as being characterised by a high degree of volatility, illiquidity  or both  and therefore  are 
usually regarded as speculative investments. This means that in practice they are rarely 
regarded as suitable for more than a small share of an investors portfolio.
The Rock  Acton investment was unusual and specialist. It was concentrated and highly 
geared, subject  to liquidity risks with no established secondary market.  It was dependent  on 
the commercial property market  either  in terms of resale values or rental yields   not 
suffering a downturn. There were  risks that investors wouldnt get back the amount theyd 
invested and could lose all of it. So looking at Mr Bs attitude to risk, I dont think  this 
particular recommendation was suitable  for his needs or risk profile.
 
Ive considered Greystones point that its recommendation provided balance to Mr Bs 
portfolio, so it met his risk profile. But looking  at the overall pension  portfolio  even when 
excluding the other  property  investments  which are the subject matter  of separate  
complaints  it consisted of a large proportion of other alternative investment strategies, in 
particular, hedge funds.  These funds represented  60% of Mr Bs overall pension  portfolio, 
which were also recommended by Greystone. So by the time he invested in Rock  Acton, a 
large proportion  of his pension  fund was already invested in other higher risk strategies. In 
my view, Rock Acton contributed to the portfolio increasing in risk rather than lowering it.
Even if I took into account that Im upholding the other complaint and this will have the effect 
of lowering the risk in the rest of Mr Bs portfolio,  I dont think  Mr Bs below  medium  attitude 
to risk made  him a typical candidate for a geared  property investment and balance  in his 
portfolio would have been  more suitably achieved by the use of insured funds, including  
commercial property funds
I note Greystones submission that its advice should  be judged  against the standards  of the 
time. But at the time of the advice, Greystone was required by its regulator to provide  
suitable advice.  To do this it wouldve  had to take into account Mr Bs personal and financial 
circumstances as well as his understanding of the risks of investing in this type of fund. For 
example, Ive not seen any evidence that Mr B understood what gearing was and why that 
increased the potential rewards, as well as the risks. And whilst it may not be unreasonable  
to have some alternative or less conventional or traditional assets if the investor understands 
their place (which Im not satisfied Mr B did), overall, the SIPP  portfolio should still broadly  
reflect the investors attitude  to risk. 
Its possible the variations  in Mr Bs recorded  attitude to risk reflected that the adviser was 
designating some parts of the overall portfolio as higher  risk than others. But I cant  see he 
satisfactorily explained how this would achieve  the overall balance Mr B reasonably needed 
of below medium risk. A balanced portfolio wouldnt reasonably be achieved by straying  too 
far above the range of risk the investor is willing to take, on the basis that this could be 
balanced by straying  equally far below that range  with another investment. Given Mr B was 
Ref: DRN33563285below medium on the risk scale, Im not satisfied the £25,000 investment in Rock  Acton  was 
an appropriate component of an overall  portfolio seeking to achieve that risk level.
Greystone has pointed to the risk warnings in the suitability letters,  and the information 
provided to Mr B about the fund. Theres no dispute  Mr B was provided with these at the 
time of sale.  But providing information about  the fund and the risks involved,  doesnt change 
Greystones obligation to give suitable advice. Nor does the fact that Mr B may have signed 
declarations about  being  a sophisticated  investor. Mr B denies signing the sophisticated 
investor form, but even  if he did, I think Greystone still had a duty to give Mr B suitable 
advice based  on his particular circumstances. And it isnt about whether Mr B agreed to 
Greystones recommendations  it shouldnt have  advised him to invest as he did.
So in summary,  I consider  Greystones  adviser should have recognised the multiple risks 
involved meant that this particular  investment  wasnt suitable  for an investor such as Mr B. 
And I think if Greystone had made  more  suitable  recommendations in line with Mr Bs risk 
profile, on balance,  I think  he wouldve followed these.
Splitting of the complaints
Greystone has raised objections to the splitting  of Mr Bs complaints. In a letter  dated  
25 July 2018 our service  gave both parties  detailed  reasons why the complaints Mr B 
brought to this service were separate complaints. 
In summary,  this was because whilst  Rock  Acton  formed part of the same portfolio, this 
investment wasnt a planned part of the advice given  on the A J Bell SIPP  in February 2004 
 or part of that same financial service. Instead, it was advice  given in reaction to a request  
from Mr B to gain more returns from the sums  sitting in cash and, it appears,  in light of 
Greystones revised  assessment of a greater tolerance for risk; perhaps with the realisation 
that the funds  werent needed for drawdown  in the immediate future. Overall  Im satisfied 
with this reasoning  and I consider the Rock Acton investment forms a separate complaint.
If Greystone  is concerned  the redress will overlap  between this case  and the redress  for the 
rest of the portfolio,  this will be addressed in the complaint about Mr Bs pension fund switch  
to the A J Bell SIPP  and Transact PPP.
The redress
In terms of the redress, Greystone dont agree that Mr B should receive £250 for the distress 
and inconvenience.  This is because it says together with Mr Bs other  complaints,  he is 
being awarded more than wed normally give for this type of complaint. 
In this case, I think Mr B has been  caused considerable distress by the unsuitable advice. 
This was his pension which he was relying  on as his primary income  in retirement. In 2010 
he was told by Greystone  that he could expect losses  of 41% on this particular investment, 
which was followed two years later with an update suggesting that he was unlikely to receive 
anything back in the near future.  Given the value Mr B placed  on the security of his 
pension, this wouldve  caused him a great  dealt  of distress, during a time when he was 
extremely ill. So Im satisfied that £250 is a fair reflection  of the upset caused  to Mr B by the 
unsuitable advice.
I further understand Greystone considers the formula proposed by the adjudicator  is unfair 
because it says it gives Mr B a guaranteed return on his investment. But I dont agree with 
Ref: DRN33563286Greystones point that with the suggested  award  it effectively means the investment was 
guaranteed and Mr Bs capital was secure. Greystone says this isnt credible in light of 
Mr Bs willingness to take some risks with his capital. The benchmark  proposed  is a 
combination of two indices, one of which carries the risk of going down  and it overall 
reflective of the attitude to risk I think Mr B was willing  to accept. Had the advice been 
suitable, then Greystone  wouldnt  be responsible for the losses Mr B has sustained  in 
respect of the investment.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B in as close  as possible 
to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. For the 
reasons Ive set out above, I think Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but Im satisfied  that the recommended  redress set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr Bs circumstances,  attitude  to risk and objectives 
when he invested.
Greystone Financial Services Limited must  compare  the performance of Mr Bs investment 
with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, 
there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable. If there is a loss, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must  
pay a sufficient amount into Mr Bs pension plan,  to increase its value by the amount of the 
compensation and any interest. 
Greystone Financial Services Limiteds payment should  allow  for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  It shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension  plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. If Greystone  Financial Services  Limited  is 
unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension  plan,  it must pay that amount direct to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  income.  
Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  If Mr B is likely to have been a higher rate taxpayer had any losses  
resulting from all of the complaints hes brought about Greystone Financial Services 
Limiteds advice from January 2004 onwards been  included in his pension  fund, the 
reduction would equal the current higher rate of tax. However, Greystone Financial Services  
Limited should identify as part of its calculations, if Mr B would have been able to take higher 
amounts of tax-free  cash at the times he took tax-free cash from his pension (if a loss was 
already showing  at that time) and adjust the reduction its making for income tax accordingly.
To give only an example,  if any higher amount of tax-free cash  Mr B wouldve been able to 
take in 2006/7 but for Greystone  Financial Services Limiteds advice from January 2004 
onwards, with further growth added to the date of my final decision in line with the 
benchmark shown  below, happened  to now correspond  to 20% of his total losses from that 
advice  this would  mean 1/5th of the compensation now being paid should not be reduced to 
allow for income tax. So if the rest of the compensation  wouldve resulted in income taxable 
at 40%,  the overall reduction  to be applied to compensation  in this and other complaints 
Mr B has brought about Greystone Financial Services  Limiteds advice from January 2004 
onwards would amount to 40% x 4/5ths = 32%.  The precise percentage should be 
determined by Greystone  Financial Services Limited during the process  of carrying out its 
Ref: DRN33563287calculations and is the same for all of the complaints about advice from January 2004 
onwards.
Mr B may consider hes able to demonstrate that a part of the lost pension benefits resulting 
from the complaints  hes brought about Greystone Financial Services Limited advice from 
January 2004  onwards, wouldve been taxed at the lower rate of 20%. I would expect  
Greystone Financial Services Limited to consider appropriate evidence  provided by Mr B if 
he considers this to be the case.
-Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format:
Investment  
nameStatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end  date)Additional 
interest
Rock  Acton  
Gate Limited 
Partnership Still existsfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate from 
fixed  rate bondsDate of 
investment date of this 
final decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
decision  to date 
of settlement (if
Compensation is 
not paid within  28 
days of the 
business  being 
notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. If, at the end 
date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open market), it may 
be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be assumed  
to be nil to arrive at fair compensation.
Greystone Financial Services Limited should  take ownership of the illiquid  investment by 
paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider. This amount should  be 
deducted from the compensation before making  the tax adjustment  and the balance  paid as 
above. If it is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Greystone Financial Services Limited  may wish to require 
that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment 
in the future. That undertaking must allow  for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Greystone  Financial Services Limited will need  to 
meet any costs in drawing  up the undertaking.
Ive assumed that the investment has not been  sold. If it has been  sold or liquidated, then 
the actual value should be determined  by increasing  the value of any proceeds received by 
the above benchmark up to the settlement date and comparing  this to the fair value at the 
settlement date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Greystone  Financial Services Limited  must use the monthly average rate for the 
fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The 
Ref: DRN33563288rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply those rates  to 
the investment  on an annually  compounded basis. 
The end date above is different to the end date I specified in Mr Bs other complaint about 
his PPP/SIPP switch,  because of the liquidity  problem with the Rock  Acton  investment which 
is likely  to have prevented Mr Bs new adviser disposing of the investment.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
-Mr B wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
-The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
-The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
-I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean  that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and require Greystone Financial Services  Limited  to pay him the 
fair compensation set out above.
I also consider Greystone  Financial Services Limited has caused  Mr B significant  distress on 
realising that hed likely lost all of the money invested in his UCIS. Greystone Financial 
Services Limited must pay Mr B £250 as compensation for the distress  it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356328