K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy Santander UK Plc (Santander) has declined  to refund disputed  
transactions amounting to £510.00. The transactions were  debited from Miss Ms Santander  
current account between  5 July 2017 and 31 July 2017.
Miss M has said she doesnt recognise  the transactions and she doesnt  remember making 
them herself.  Shes told us she only withdraws  cash from her current  account every  
fortnight, on a Monday. As some of these transactions didnt happen on a Monday, they 
couldnt have  been her. 
Santander has said it wont  refund Miss Ms £510.00 as it couldnt see how an unauthorised 
person wouldve known Miss Ms Personal Identification Number  (PIN)  and have  access  to 
her card in order to make the transactions without her knowledge.
background
Below are details of the transactions Miss M disputes, as well as any other  account  activity 
that I think is relevant  to the outcome of this complaint:
Date Transaction place & type Amount Available balance
05/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 94.00 C 94.00 C
05/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 70.00 C 164.00 C
05/07/2017 ATM withdrawal Barstable  - DISPUTED    160.00 D 4.00 C
05/07/2017 Transfer to savings account 4.00 D 0.00 C
06/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 10.00 C 10.00 C
06/07/2017 ATM withdrawal Barstable  - DISPUTED 10.00 D 0.00 C
07/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 20.00 C 20.00 C
07/07/2017 ATM withdrawal Barstable  - DISPUTED 20.00 D 0.00 C
07/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 10.00 C 10.00 C
07/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 10.00 C 20.00 C
07/07/2017 ATM withdrawal Basildon - DISPUTED 20.00 D 0.00 C
07/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 20.00 C 20.00 C
07/07/2017 ATM withdrawal Barstable  - DISPUTED 20.00 D 0.00 C
08/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 30.00 C 30.00 C
08/07/2017 Transfer from savings  account 30.00 C 60.00 C
what Miss M has said
Miss M has said she doesnt remember making  any of the transactions  Ive highlighted 
above. Shes told us she only uses the ATM on Mondays, when  she gets her benefit 
Ref: DRN32455262payments. Shes told us she doesnt  go to the cashpoint on any other day of the week. So 
the transactions cant be her. 
Shes also said that during the period in question, she didnt have access to her online 
banking. She tried to log-in on a number of occasions but received an error message every  
time. This continued  until October 2017,  when Miss M contacted Santander to request her 
log-in details be reset. Her on-line  banking has been working correctly since. 
Miss M has said its possible  that someone  couldve seen  her log into her on-line banking  at 
home and noted  down  her details. Its also possible that someone couldve  seen  her enter  
her PIN at a cash point  at some stage.  And someone couldve taken her card, when it was 
kept in her bag at home, before replacing  it at a later date.
Miss M has told us that she only noticed money had been withdrawn from her account when 
she went to the cashpoint to withdraw  her benefits. Miss M said when she tried to withdraw 
her money, her card was swallowed. She spoke  to Santander to ask why her card had been  
swallowed and to get another card sent out to her. Miss M told us Santander  said the card 
had been swallowed because her on-line banking  had been accessed  and fraud  had taken 
place on her account. 
what Santander has said 
Santander said it felt Miss M was responsible for the transactions  herself. It felt the pattern of 
the transactions matched  Miss Ms usual spending  patterns. 
Santander also said whoever was in possession of Miss Ms card when the transactions  
were being made, also knew Miss Ms PIN - the transactions were  authorised using Miss Ms 
actual card and her correct PIN. And there were no incorrect PIN attempts before the money 
was withdrawn.
Santander also said Miss Ms on-line  banking was working correctly  in July 2017. And 
someone was logging into her on-line  account on a near daily basis.  Its said it did receive a 
request from Miss M to reset her log-in  details, but this wasnt  until October  2017.  
Santander said the transactions  that took place on 30 July 2017 were flagged  as suspicious 
by its security systems.  So it proactively  contacted Miss M to ask if the transactions  were 
being made  by her. Santander was able to speak to Miss M on the telephone to discuss  the 
transactions in question. Santander said Miss M didnt contact them  and her card wasnt  
swallowed by an ATM.
Santander said during  this initial call, Miss M said she couldnt remember any of the 
transactions in question and said if they hadnt taken  place on a Monday, they couldnt have 
been her. Santander  has said Miss M was still in possession  of her card at the time. And the 
card hadnt  been  retained at a cashpoint. 
Santander told us Miss M wasnt aware that any money had gone missing before it 
pro-actively contacted her and was reluctant to have the card blocked as this would mean 
she wouldnt  have  access to her benefits - which were due to be paid into her account the 
following Monday.  
Ref: DRN32455263Santander also said its looked at the pattern  of the transactions to see if they fit with how 
Miss M generally  uses  her account, and its said they do. Miss M has used the ATMs  where 
the cash withdrawals  took place before. Its also said Miss M regularly transfers money 
between her savings  account and her current account to allow her to withdraw them - and 
thats what has happened here.
the evidence Ive seen 
Santanders records  show Miss Ms genuine card and PIN were used  successfully without 
any incorrect PIN attempts. Santander  has also provided me with records  that show  
Miss Ms account balance was checked  on numerous occasions both on-line or at an ATM 
during the period that the transactions were  taking place.
Ive also seen  a list of the transactions that took place on Miss Ms current  account and her 
Santander Instant Saver Account. They  show that money  was regularly  being moved 
between Miss Ms savings account and her current account  to allow  the transactions in 
dispute to take place.
Ive also listened  to the initial call that took place between Miss M and Santander. This is a 
recording of an outgoing call to Miss M from Santander to discuss suspicious activity on 
Miss Ms current  account. 
Before this call, there  is no record of Miss M disputing any transactions  on her current  
account. 
During the call, when Santander ask Miss M about the transactions  in question, Miss M 
seems quite confused and she says she cant remember  making them.  The representative  
from Santander details a number of transactions in quick succession. Miss M says she only 
withdraws cash  on Mondays and so any transactions that dont take place on a Monday  
cant be her. 
Because Miss M cant confirm the transactions have  been made by her, Santander mark the 
transactions as fraudulent and block Miss Ms current account. Miss M is quite concerned  by 
this - she initially doesnt want her account  to be blocked as this means she wont  be able to 
withdraw her benefits when they are received into her account. 
The outcome of the call is that Miss M believes  someone has been  withdrawing  cash from 
her current  account.
relevant considerations  authorisation
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I'm required to take into account:  relevant law 
and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice;  and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the PSRs  
2009). They explain that a payment out of someones account can only be authorised  if the 
payer (in this case Miss M) has consented  to it. 
Ref: DRN32455264The payment service provider (in this case Santander) must show  the payment was 
authenticated. But its not enough for Santander  to simply rely on the fact that the card and 
PIN were used, that doesnt  necessarily mean  that the payment was authorised  by the 
account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, generally speaking,  
Miss M will be liable  for payments she has authorised and Santander  will be liable for 
unauthorised payments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Santander to refund the disputed payments to Miss M, Ill explain why. 
were the transactions authorised by Miss M?
Santander has no authority to debit Miss Ms account unless she authorised the 
transactions. So the first thing for me to consider is whether Santander has shown  how the 
transactions were  processed/authenticated. 
In this particular  case, Santander has been able to show  me that Miss Ms actual card and 
genuine PIN were  used  to authorise the transactions. 
Miss M has mentioned the possibility that a cloned card may have been used, but this isnt 
the case here. Santanders  records  show  that the chip in Miss Ms card was read which 
means that the genuine card was used. And whoever had access  to Miss Ms card also 
appears to have known her PIN - there  were  no incorrect  PIN attempts before the 
transactions took place. And they were also able to return Miss Ms card to her without her 
noticing. She was in possession of the genuine card when she was contacted by Santander. 
Santander has also provided Miss Ms online banking records which  show that, not only 
were Miss Ms actual  card and PIN used, her on-line banking  was being logged  into and 
money was being  moved between her savings  and current account throughout the period to 
allow the transactions to take place.  
Santander has said it doesnt think a third party would have access  to all of the above 
without Miss Ms permission. And it wouldnt be possible for a third party  to access  Miss Ms 
card and simply guess her PIN. 
Miss M has said it wouldve  been possible for someone close  to her to have gained access 
to her card and online banking. And someone  mightve watched her enter  her PIN when she 
went shopping.
Ive thought carefully about what Miss M has said and, having considered all of the evidence,  
Im not persuaded that this is what happened  here. I think Miss M authorised the 
transactions herself. I think  Miss M was confused  by the initial call with Santander and she 
simply forgot  making the transactions. Ill explain why. 
Miss M told us she was initially told about  potential fraudulent activity on her account when 
she called  Santander  to tell it her card was swallowed by an ATM when she tried to withdraw 
Ref: DRN32455265cash. This was what prompted her to contact  Santander. Miss M says she was told her card 
had been swallowed due to fraudulent activity on her account.  She told us this was the first 
time she realised the money had been withdrawn from her account.  But I dont think this is 
the case. 
Santander has provided me with a recording of this call and Ive listened to it in full. The call 
is an out-going call made to Miss M from Santander.  During  the call, Santander  tell Miss M 
that some  transactions on her account  have been flagged as suspicious. And Miss M is 
asked if she remembers making  the transactions herself. 
Having listened  to the call, I think its clear that Miss M is quite confused  by what Santander 
is asking her. Miss M isnt expecting a call and Santanders representative is asking lots of 
questions in quick succession  listing a number  of transactions,  times and locations. Its 
clear Miss M has been taken a little off-guard  and is struggling to remember the transactions. 
Santander tell Miss M that if she cant remember the transactions,  theyll have to block  her 
account. Miss M is reluctant to allow Santander  to do this as it means she wont  have access  
to her benefits which are due to be paid into the account the following Monday. Eventually,  
Miss M says she cant remember the transactions  and regardless, they cant be her because 
she only withdraws money on a Monday.
So, my overall impression is that Miss M leaves  the call thinking that Santander have called 
to tell her someone  has withdrawn money  from her account. I dont think  she realises 
Santander is actually  calling to talk through some  transactions  she might have made herself. 
And, it seems to me that from this point onwards, Miss M believes fraud has taken place on 
her account.  
Miss M has been quite  consistent in telling us that she gets her benefit  payments every 
fortnight, on a Monday. And because of this, she only withdraws cash  on a Monday  
withdrawals on any other  day cant be her. But both Miss Ms current account  and savings 
account statements  show that Miss M frequently transfers money from her savings account  
to her current account to allow withdrawals  on days  other than Mondays. So, I cant  agree 
that Miss M only withdraws cash every two weeks, on a Monday. Because  I can see that this 
isnt the case.  And so I agree with Santander that these transactions fit with Miss Ms usual 
spending behaviour.  
Miss M has also told us she relies on her benefit  payments to pay for her everyday living 
expenses. And having looked over the activity on Miss Ms current account I can see she 
frequently checks her balance in the hours leading up to her receiving this payment  
presumably to see when  it goes  into her account so she can withdraw it. So, I think that had 
£510.00 gone missing from her current account,  Miss M wouldve noticed this relatively 
quickly. And I think she wouldve contacted Santander as soon as possible because  she 
relies on this money for her everyday spending.  But she doesnt.  Its Santander  who call to 
discuss the potentially  fraudulent transactions  with Miss M. Before this call takes place, it 
doesnt appear that Miss M has any concerns about withdrawals from her current  account at 
all.  
Ref: DRN32455266The activity  that takes place on Miss Ms current and savings accounts before and during the 
transactions also suggests to me that it was Miss M who withdrew this money and later 
forgot following a confusing conversation with Santander. Ill explain why.
Miss M disputed seven cash withdrawals debited  from her current account, the first of which  
is debited on 7 July 2017 and amounts to £160.00. To allow this withdrawal to take place, 
two amounts are transferred from Ms savings account. There  isnt enough  money in 
Miss Ms current  account to allow the transaction beforehand. 
The first transfer from Miss Ms savings account is for £94.00 and the second  is for £70.00.  
This brings  Miss Ms current account  balance  up to £164.00. And £160.00 of this is later 
withdrawn. After the withdrawal has taken place, Miss Ms online account is logged  into 
again and the £4.00 remaining  in her current account is transferred back to Miss Ms Instant 
Saver Account. 
For me to be satisfied that this was an unauthorised third party, Id have to be persuaded 
that, not only did the third party have access to Miss Ms card and PIN, they also knew  
Miss Ms on-line banking details and were able to transfer money between her two accounts 
before making  the cash withdrawals. Id then have to be persuaded that the third party  
logged back into Miss Ms online account  and transferred  £4.00  back to her savings. And Im 
not persuaded that this sounds like the actions of a fraudster. And I cant see a reason why a 
fraudster would take the time to fraudulently access Miss Ms online banking and put money  
into her savings account. There would be no benefit  to the fraudster and I cant see why they 
would have taken  the time to do this. 
Overall, I think its likely Miss M needed  access to some of the money  in her savings account 
and so transferred  it into her current account, so she could withdraw  it at an ATM. It seems 
plausible to me that Miss M could  only withdraw  £160 in notes from the ATM so transferred 
£4.00 back to her savings  account  so it was available to her at another  time. 
I have no doubt  that Miss M doesnt  remember these transactions  now. But I think  this is 
more likely to be because  of the amount of time that has passed since  the transactions took 
place, rather than because Miss M didnt  authorise  the transactions  in the first place.  And I 
think the initial call between Santander and Miss M has caused much  of this confusion. I 
think that at the time of the call Miss M had withdrawn this money.  But she cant  remember  
exactly when, how much and in what location.  Santander take this as confirmation that 
Miss M is saying she cant remember the transactions  at all. And Miss M thinks  Santander 
are calling to her tell her that her money  has been taken.  
So, I think its more likely  that Miss M authorised the transactions  on her account  even if 
she doesnt remember that now. I think this complaint has, in the main,  been driven by the 
telephone conversation between Miss M and Santander. 
Ive taken into account everything Miss M has said. But the transaction  histories  from both 
her current  and savings  accounts show me she withdraws cash on days  other than a 
Monday. And the transactions fit Miss Ms usual spending patterns. I also think its unlikely 
that Miss M wouldnt have  noticed  such a large sum being taken  from her account  
especially as she relied on this money for her everyday living.  Miss M is happy with the 
amount available in her account until Santander contact her. So, overall,  Im satisfied that 
Miss M authorised the transactions. And because of this, I wont  be asking Santander to 
refund them.   
Ref: DRN32455267my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Santander UK Plc has acted unreasonably in 
rejecting Miss Ms complaint. So, I wont be asking Santander UK Plc to do anything  further.  
And I wont be asking it to refund the transactions  to Miss M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3245526