K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994.  The policy was in Mr Ks name 
only. Mr and Mrs K paid a monthly amount of £13 for the policy and it provided  a benefit of 
£200 if Mr K made a successful claim if he was unable to work because of an accident or 
sickness, or if he lost his job. And the PPI would pay out for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K, through their representative, state  they were  told to take the policy as part of 
the mortgage package and were  given no other option. And within  the questionnaire 
Mr and Mrs K completed for our service, state they were advised to take the insurance,  so 
they did. So on one hand they have said that it was compulsory  and on the other  hand   
they were advised  to take it. If it was a compulsory part of obtaining the mortgage,  then I 
dont think they would  have been advised  to take it.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs K are just trying  to give their best recollection of what 
happened. But given this happened such a long time ago Im not surprised Mr and Mrs K 
dont recall exactly what happened.
As the sale took place in 1994,  it makes it very difficult to know  exactly  what happened. 
LBS no longer  hold any copies of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage or PPI documents. Again this is 
not surprising  as it was 25 years  ago and businesses arent obliged  to keep records 
indefinitely. But LBS has provided samples of the paperwork from around  the time of sale 
that Mr and Mrs K would have likely competed. 
Based on what I know about how LBS sold PPI around that time, and based on the sample  
paperwork provided, I think Mr and Mrs K would have most likely been required  to complete 
a separate PPI application form if they wanted PPI.
The sample PPI application  form would have  sought  Mr and Mrs K consent to buying  the 
policy following Mr and Mrs K making  some decisions as to who should  be covered (if not 
both) and for how much benefit they needed.  I think this most likely  happened in this case as 
the cover  was chosen for Mr K only and with a monthly benefit of £200.
Ref: DRN33591932So, after taking everything into consideration, I think its likely that LBS made Mr and Mrs K 
aware that they had a choice about  buying the PPI, and they chose  to take in Mr Ks name  
only and at the level they required. Although given the time that has passed I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Mr and Mrs K say that they were advised to take the policy. LBS agree and say it 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs K. And it seems to have been right for Mr K based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr and Mrs K have  told us that they received good employee benefits if they were unable  to 
work because of an accident  or sickness. They also say that their employment was stable  
and they had no dependents so didnt need PPI. 
But insurance is there to protect against the unforeseen.  Taking a mortgage is a large, long 
term financial commitment. If repayments arent met there  can be serious consequences and 
borrowers can stand to lose their home. 
So while Mr and Mrs K received a good level of sick pay, the PPI would have covered the 
mortgage repayments for longer than Mr Ks sick pay. It would have paid out for up to 12 
months for each claim if Mr K was unable to work  because of sickness or if he lost her job. It 
would have also paid out on top of any sick pay Mr K received. 
Mr and Mrs K havent told us about  any savings or other insurances that they could have 
relied on to meet their repayments.  So, all things considered, I think it would have provided a 
useful benefit  and I cant fairly say that the advisers  recommendation  was unsuitable.
I cant be satisfied how clearly the cost of the policy was explained. The sample paperwork 
suggests that the cost of the policy would have been on the PPI application form and then 
subsequently in the mortgage offer documentation.  But, in any event, I havent seen 
anything to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable or unsuitable in Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances. And even if everything  had been explained clearly, I think its likely  that they 
still would  have bought it. I say this because it looks like the policy  could have been  useful  to 
them as explained  above
Its possible LBS didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mr K doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those things, so I dont think  more information about  
this would have  changed their mind  and stopped them from taking the policy for Mr K.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3359193