K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2003. Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr M in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M applied for their mortgage at a meeting, and most of the form was filled out 
electronically, including the part for PPI. I can see that in order  to fill out the form, the staff 
member had to discuss Mr and Mrs Ms personal  and financial details, mortgage preferences  
and so on in some detail,  so I think its most  likely they discussed  the part about PPI too.
The PPI section explained what the policy was for and pointed customers  to a leaflet for 
more details. There were then three options to choose from: one to take the policy, one to 
just get a quote, and one to turn it down. The option to buy PPI was chosen, and Mr and 
Mrs M signed  the application to confirm their choices. So I think  that Santander made  Mr and 
Mrs M aware they had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the 
time  though  I can understand  if they no longer recall doing  so after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check  it was right for them.  
And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
Mr M was eligible for the cover and doesnt  seem  to have been affected by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations. Mrs M said she had very generous benefits through work, so it 
makes sense that she wasnt covered. Whereas Mr M had only very limited sick pay, and 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he lost his job, so the PPI offered him 
much more comprehensive protection than he already  had.
I understand Mr Ms family may have  been more than willing to help, but there  was always 
the chance theyd be unable to help when needed. This mortgage was Mr and Mrs Ms 
responsibility, and I dont think it wouldve been suitable for Santander to have advised  them  
to rely on someone  else to pay it. And the PPI meant they wouldnt have to ask their family 
to pay their mortgage. Ultimately, its worth  bearing  in mind that if Mr and Mrs M fell behind  
on their mortgage payments they risked losing their home. It looks like the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home.
Ref: DRN34881272Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mr and Mrs M about  PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, it looks like Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI, which indicates 
they wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went  
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and 
Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable.  And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly 
basis, so Mr and Mrs M could cancel it at any time without  a penalty. Overall,  I dont think  
that better  information  was likely to have put them  off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3488127