K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance policy  
(PPI). 
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in branch in 2007  he was sold a PPI policy at the same time to 
protect his mortgage  repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. At the 
time of sale Mr K was self-employed  and has said he had some savings.
Mr K complained to Lloyds saying he was unaware  of the PPI and hadnt consented to the 
policy. Lloyds investigated Mr Ks complaint but didnt uphold it. Unhappy  with Lloyds 
response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr K 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints involving the sale of PPI on our website. 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks complaint. Having done so, I dont  uphold  it. 
I realise this may come as a disappointment  to Mr K but I hope  my explanation  helps  him to 
understand and accept  my conclusion. 
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr K that the PPI policy  was an optional  product and gain his 
consent for the policy to be set up. 
Mr K says he doesnt remember PPI being discussed and he doesnt think he agreed to it 
being set up. But Ive seen a PPI application  form completed in 2007  which  Mr K has signed  
 this is separate to his mortgage application. So I think its more likely  that a discussion 
about the policy did take place and Mr K agreed  to take it out. I can also see that Mr Ks 
mortgage offer set out that the PPI policy  was optional and not a condition of his mortgage. 
Lloyds has told us it recommended this policy to Mr K. This means it had to make sure it was 
suitable for him  having carefully considered what I know  of Mr Ks needs and 
circumstances at the time, Im satisfied that it was. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr K. There  was nothing  
about Mr Ks employment or occupation  which wouldve made it difficult  for him to claim. 
While, Mr K was self-employed at the time,  the terms of the policy didnt make  it any harder 
for him to claim than a permanently employed  person. 
Mr K also seems to have had a need  for the policy  Mr K has told us he would not have  
received any sick pay if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness  and he wasnt  
entitled to redundancy pay. And while Mr K says he had a small  amount  of savings, the 
policy wouldve helped Mr K meet his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months in the event 
that he was unable to work.  
Ref: DRN39695862Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it wouldve been useful for him if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI wouldve put him off taking out 
the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Lucy Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3969586