K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank blocked his credit card 
that resulted in a ruined  visit to the United Kingdom.
background
Mr M was living in France in June 2018 and travelled to the United Kingdom (UK) for a three 
week visit. He says that he attempted to hire a car in order to carry out a number  of visits in 
the UK but his credit card was blocked.  Mr M says he wasnt  told that the card was blocked 
and went into a branch  with a letter with the PIN on it. And was told the PIN was incorrect 
and a new one would  be sent to his home  in France.  He says he was able to withdraw about 
£2,000 but that didnt allow him to hire a car. Mr M says that on his return  to France  he 
attended a branch and was able to withdraw  20 Euros. In summary Mr M would like the 
costs of his visit to the UK refunded and compensation in total of about  £800. He says 
Yorkshire Bank was at fault and has not been  honest in its dealings with him.
Yorkshire Bank accepts  it didnt call Mr M back as agreed and has apologised and paid him 
£100 compensation. It says it doesnt have  a record of Mr Ms account  or card being blocked  
and says when  he attended its branch an incorrect PIN was entered  and that is why a letter  
with PIN details was sent to France.  Yorkshire  Bank says its refunded charges for the use of 
the card in France when  the 20 Euros was withdrawn.
Mr M says Yorkshire Bank has doctored its records and brought  his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. The investigator didnt think 
there was any evidence Yorkshire  Bank  had blocked  the account  or card and thought the 
problem may have been Mr M using the wrong PIN letter. 
Mr M questions why the investigator would accept what Yorkshire Bank said about  this and 
says he brought  with him the correct letter with the PIN on it. He says the card couldnt be 
used in France but later worked in a branch which he says must have been due to a block 
being removed.  Mr M would like a full investigation and questions if court proceedings can 
be brought against Yorkshire Bank or if it could  be fined.
Mr M asked  that an ombudsman review the complaint and I asked both sides  to this 
complaint for further information.  In summary I asked Mr M for copies of all of the PIN letters 
that he has and Yorkshire  Bank to provide me with account statements and details of PIN 
changes.
Yorkshire Bank says the PIN letters are dealt with by a third party  company  and so cant 
provide further  information but has provided  account statements.
Mr M says the PIN letters are in Kent and he now lives in Yorkshire and says he has a 
number of these  letters. He says the PIN on the letter he received following the branch visit 
is the same  as the one on the letter he showed  in the branch on his UK visit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I realise Mr M will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  he feels about whats  happened. I also accept 
that Mr M has been waiting some  time for an ombudsmans  decision  on this complaint. But I 
Ref: DRN31689412hope he understands that part of the delay was due to me wanting as much  information from 
both sides before reaching  a decision.
I have not seen any evidence that Mr Ms account or account card was blocked. I can see 
that when Mr M went to the Yorkshire  Bank branch in Leeds he was able to withdraw about 
£2,000 from the counter. So I think on balance that provides evidence  that the account itself 
was not blocked otherwise I dont think that transaction could have taken place. I can also 
see from Yorkshire Banks records that its staff member says the wrong PIN was used by Mr 
M and that is why a new PIN letter was ordered. On balance Im satisfied that it is more  likely 
than not that the problem here was caused  by Mr M using an incorrect PIN.
I appreciate Mr M says he took with him the letter containing the PIN to the UK. But I can 
also see that he says he has kept a number  of similar letters  from Yorkshire Bank containing 
PIN details.  So I think its possible that Mr M brought with him an incorrect  letter to the UK 
and whilst I appreciate  those letters are some  distance from his home I would like to have 
seen them in order to clarify that point. I have also made clear that I think Mr M was told that 
by Yorkshire staff when  he attended  the branch in Leeds and I would have expected  Mr M to 
have destroyed  such previous letters and kept only the last letter  with a PIN on it if he 
couldnt remember it.
I would also have liked to have seen evidence from Yorkshire Bank about any PIN changes 
and or letters sent to Mr M. I appreciate it says it cant provide those details  as it uses a third 
party company to deal with such matters.  So I accept  in those circumstances Mr M will have 
unanswered questions and in particular question why he was able to use his account  card 
later in France. I am sorry to disappoint Mr M but I cant order Yorkshire Bank  to provide me 
with information  it doesnt have. I also make  clear to Mr M that we are not the regulator of 
banks and building societies and so dont have the power to fine and discipline a business or 
initiate court proceedings.
Overall I dont think Yorkshire Bank has made  a mistake or acted unfairly here in respect of 
Mr Ms main  complaint.  And I have not seen any evidence of the account or card being 
blocked There is no question that Yorkshire Bank  ought to have returned  Mr Ms telephone 
call as agreed but Im satisfied that its paid and fair and reasonable level of compensation for 
that. For those reasons  I cant fairly  order Yorkshire  Bank to pay the compensation Mr M 
would like. I accept  that Mr M is unlikely  to accept my decision and I also accept there  are a 
number of unanswered questions here.  But I think this brings  an end to what we in trying  to 
sort out this dispute informally can do. I can see that Mr M now has or is being sent all of the 
material he wanted as well as the questions I asked  of Yorkshire  Bank.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020..
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168941