K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC wont refund to him the £600 that he paid for a 
dress for his wife that was faulty.
background
Mr R paid £600 for a dress for his wife from his account with Barclays in September 2018. 
He says that the dress was faulty  and injured his wife. He contacted  Barclays  in February 
2019 and it made a chargeback claim. But the claim had been made after the 120 day period 
set out in the applicable scheme  rules for such  a claim had ended. Mr R complained to 
Barclays and it paid him £100 compensation  because hed been incorrectly  told that a 
chargeback could be made. He wasnt satisfied with Barclays response  so complained to 
this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Barclays had followed the applicable scheme  rules so he wouldn't be able to ask it to take 
any further action  regarding the chargeback. And he believed  that £100  was reasonable 
compensation for Barclays  error  in giving the impression that a chargeback could be raised. 
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that Barclays website  says that a request for a chargeback must be sent within  120 days  of 
discovering the problem, or 540 days from the transaction  date - whichever comes  first".  And 
he says that his circumstances are covered  by that requirement so his chargeback claim is 
valid. He says that if he relied on the information  provided on Barclays website, then its 
decision should be made on that advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made.
Mr R bought the dress in September 2018  and he contacted  Barclays  about the fault with it 
in February 2019   which was more than 120 days later. Barclays made a chargeback claim 
but it was out of time. Barclays accepted that it had incorrectly  told Mr R that a chargeback 
claim could  be made  and it paid him £100  to recognise the inconvenience that the 
misinformation has caused  him.
Mr R has referred  to the information about  chargebacks on Barclays website. It says:
Please make sure you send a request to us within 120 days  of discovering  the 
problem, or 540 days from the transaction date - whichever comes  first. We may not 
be able to help you get your money back outside  of this time period. These  
timescales may change  depending on the nature of your query.
The applicable  scheme rules are comprehensive  and Barclays  had tried to help its 
customers by providing brief information  about the rules. But I dont  consider  that its 
Ref: DRN30707672summary is binding on it  and it says:  Any help we can offer is governed by the [applicable] 
cardholder chargeback terms. And Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  
that Mr R wouldve made  his claim within the 120 period if Barclays website had contained 
different information  about chargebacks. 
The applicable  scheme rules clearly state  that a dispute about defective merchandise  must 
be processed within 120 calendar days of either the transaction processing date or the date 
the cardholder  received  the merchandise. Mr Rs chargeback request wasnt  made until 
more than 120 days after the transaction processing  date and the date that the dress  was 
received. So I dont consider that he was entitled  to make a chargeback  in these  
circumstances.
Barclays has accepted  that it didnt give correct  information to Mr R about  his chargeback  
and its paid him £100 compensation because of the inconvenience that he was caused. 
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But I find that it wouldnt  be 
fair or reasonable  for me to require Barclays to refund to Mr R any of the money  that he paid 
for the dress, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other  action in response  to 
his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3070767