K821x#15Complaint
Miss S is unhappy with Lowell Financial Ltds actions when trying  to recover  money owing 
under an agreement they bought from a finance provider.
Background
Miss S complained to Lowell in September  and November  2018  that theyd sent information 
regarding a debt she owed to her ex-partners address. She wasnt  happy with this, because  
shed never  lived there,  and she described  things with her ex-partner as volatile. Miss S was 
also unhappy, because  Lowell wrote to her at her Mums address after shed told them the 
correct address.
Lowell replied to Miss S complaints  in November and December 2018,  and said they were 
upholding some of the issues shed raised.  They explained they buy debts from other 
companies, and then work with each customer to build an affordable  repayment  plan.  They 
said once they buy a debt they use a Credit Reference Agency (CRA) to track  down  the 
current address. These searches returned  the addresses theyd  written  to. So they didnt 
think theyd done  anything wrong in initially writing to those addresses. 
But Lowell also said Miss S had called up in September  2018, and given them  the correct 
address to write to. After  this time,  they wrote to her Mums address again in error.  And they 
said Miss S had called  on 22 November  2018,  was promised a call back the next day, which 
never came. So they paid her £100 in recognition of these errors. But didnt accept theyd 
breached Miss S data  as the CRAs showed  she lived at those addresses,  and the 
envelopes were  clearly marked for just her.
Miss S didnt think the compensation theyd paid her was enough,  and didnt think it was OK 
to effectively blame the CRA for writing to an address  shed never lived at. So she asked us 
to look into her complaint.
One of our investigators  did so, and upheld the complaint. He felt Lowells service hadnt  
been good enough. They didnt  return a call when  they said they would, and they wrote  to 
the wrong address after being  told the correct one. He said this had increased Miss S 
anxiety, given the situation with her ex-partner, so suggested Lowell pay a further £100.
Miss S accepted  this. But Lowell didnt. They said the only reason they wrote  to the ex-
partner was because  theyd received no replies when trying to contact her at any of the other  
addresses. And the letters sent were marked as private and confidential for her only.  They  
upheld the issue  about writing to her Mums address after theyve  been  given the correct  one 
 and felt the compensation  reflected the impact of that error. So the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Miss S has raised  her concerns about Lowells use of the CRA  to the relevant 
body, so I wont comment on that further.
Ref: DRN39582622Given that, the issues I think I need to decide in this case are whether  Lowell  have awarded  
sufficient compensation  for the errors theyve made.
Theyve paid £100 in recognition of sending further  letters to Miss S Mums address after 
Miss S had told them the correct address  and for not returning  a phone call. I dont think 
this properly recognises the impact on Miss S.
Miss S has told us that the letter being  sent to her ex-partner, who shes  described as 
volatile, created a lot of anxiety for her. Lowell say they only did that after she hadnt replied 
to them.
But the further correspondence  Lowell  sent after Miss S had told them  the correct  address is 
why I think its appropriate  to increase the compensation. Miss S had a reasonable 
expectation, after giving Lowell the correct  address  that theyd only write  to the correct 
address. By not following these instructions its not unreasonable for Miss S to think Lowell 
could have also written  to other addresses they were told not to  such as the ex-partner.
Given this Im satisfied that a total compensation payment  of £200 is appropriate. Lowell 
have said Miss S cashed the original compensation award of £100.
Lowell have pointed  out several  times  that the letters were only addressed  to Miss S. While 
that may well be true, I dont think that by itself can mean the letters  dont get opened  or 
that Miss S wasnt impacted by their failure  to send letters to the correct address.
My final decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order  Lowell  Financial  Ltd to pay Miss S a total of £200 
compensation. Lowell are allowed to deduct the £100 already paid from this figure.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3958262