K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  refused to let him reject  a faulty car.
background
In May 2018  Mr E bought  a car funded by a cash deposit of £2,000 and the balance of 
£2,695 by means of a hire purchase agreement. It was some 10 years old and had done  
90,925 miles. Mr E says that warning lights came on almost immediately and he took it back  
to the dealer which sent him to a mechanic who used a diagnostic  machine to turn off the 
lights. 
Mr E moved away from the area and he says the problems continued. The car was used for 
work and a sensor was repaired under the warranty by a roadside mechanic. In November 
2018 the engine blew up and it required a new one. 
FirstRand says Mr E told it the car had passed  its MOT in May or June 2018.  It added that 
he had said the warning light was a speed sensor which  had been replaced.  It didnt 
consider the warning lights were connected  with the later major fault. It also noted Mr E had 
used the car as a taxi and had driven  it for some 24,000 miles before  it failed.  It didnt 
consider there was sufficient evidence to show the car was faulty  at the point of sale.
Mr E brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  the issue of the warning lights 
had been addressed by the dealer, but Mr E believed they hadnt been repaired and had 
simply been reset. However, the car had been  driven for some  24,000  miles before the 
engine blew and he didnt  believe  there was persuasive evidence that the fault had been 
present at the point of sale.
He said he gathered the car had passed its MOT. He also said that although the warning  
lights had appeared at various points, he couldnt say these were  connected  to the engine 
blowing up later. He also said he couldnt  hold FirstRand responsible  for any concerns Mr E 
had with the warranty company. He added that if Mr E wished he could arrange for an 
independent inspection.
Mr E didnt agree and said the fact he had driven  the car 25,000 miles had no bearing  on the 
matter. He said the problem had been present from the start. He said the warning lights  must 
have come on for a reason and there  was an underlying  problem. The adjudicator addressed 
these matters and Mr E asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN34089852FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can appreciate Mr Es frustration and I acknowledge  that he now faces financial difficulties 
as his means of earning living are beyond economic repair.  However, I do not believe I can 
uphold his complaint.
The basic  requirement  of consumer law is that the car has to be satisfactory  at the point  of 
sale. If not the dealer has the opportunity to repair  it. According to Mr E warning lights came 
on and these were reset  by a mechanic on behalf of the dealer. I dont know  which warning 
lights came  on or what their function  was. The latter warning light which was repaired was 
for the braking system  and so was unconnected with the engine.  I have seen nothing that 
connects these  lights to the later engine blow up.
Mr E says the lights appeared intermittently, but again I have no evidence for this and he 
hasnt identified which lights  and if they were the same ones which lit up each time. The 
latter warning light which was repaired was for the braking system and so was unconnected  
with the engine. Despite the warning lights Mr E was able to make extensive  use of the car. 
He drove  in excess of twice the average  annual mileage in six months. I note his doesnt  
think this is relevant, but I dont agree. If the car was faulty at the point of sale I find it hard to 
see how he could have  driven it so far without it breaking down.
Cars are mechanical items and are subject to wear and tear. The greater the use the more 
likely things are to go wrong. I also note that the car passed its MOT in May or June  2018  
and while  this is not an exhaustive examination it does indicate the car was functioning  
properly at that point.
Quite simply I do not have  enough  evidence which allows me to conclude the car was faulty 
at the point of sale. While I have every  sympathy with Mr E I cannot say First Rand has done 
anything wrong.
Ref: DRN34089853my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 
11 October 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3408985