K821x#15complaint
Mr H, represented by Mrs H, complains that the conservatory he paid for through a loan 
agreement with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr H entered into a finance agreement with Hitachi Capital in 2013 to pay for a new 
conservatory. After the conservatory was built it started leaking and having other issues.  
Mr H contacted the supplier and says that although  repairs were carried out these werent  to 
an adequate standard.  
Subsequently inspections  were carried out on the conservatory which  found  there  to be a 
number of major issues. These included, missing damp proofing courses, the base not being  
square, the walls uneven, steps  not meeting building requirements and certain  seals not 
being correctly  applied. The recommendations from the reports  were that the conservatory 
needed to be taken down as it couldnt be repaired to a satisfactory standard.  
Hitachi Capital says that it didnt receive any expression of dissatisfaction until 2016. In 
April 2017 it was found some repairs were  required  and it asked for an independent  
inspection. However  it says Mr H refused this and sourced his own inspection.  It says the 
inspection report received didnt have the qualifications of the inspector  and didnt include 
any photographs. Later in 2017, it says the case was closed due to a lack of response.  The 
case was later reopened but Hitachi Capital says insufficient evidence has been provided to 
support a full refund  or cancellation. 
Hitachi Capital also noted that Mr H had accepted compensation of £2,600 for the poor 
quality base work and damage caused  to his property.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  An initial view was issued and then following a review 
an updated view was issued. This recommended that Hitachi Capital should arrange for the 
removal of the conservatory at no cost to Mr H and refund him all payments made less 
£2,300 to take into account (in part) a payment he had already received. Our investigator 
also recommended  that Mr H be paid £250 for the trouble and upset he had been  caused 
and that Hitachi  Capital should  pay the £280 for the report as it had agreed.  
Hitachi Capital didnt  accept our investigators view.  The supplier commented saying that the 
compensation already paid was for poor base works. It said the agreement was to keep the 
base as it was and not do any extra work and this was what  Mr H agreed to and taken the 
compensation for. It said it believed the issue with the damp proofing was only on an internal 
wall and challenged how it had been  proved no damp proofing was present. It set out what it 
believed necessary to rectify the base  and said that there was nothing wrong with the top 
and not much aside  from maybe some cosmetic  issues with the external work. It then 
suggested possible costs  for the work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My role is to assess each complaint on its 
merits. I take relevant  regulations into account but my decision is based on what  I consider 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN37848922Mr H entered into a loan agreement  with Hitachi Capital to pay for a conservatory.  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA),  says that in certain  circumstances, the 
borrower (in this case Mr H) has an equal  right to claim against the credit  provider  if theres 
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods. In this case,  Mr H 
has experienced a number  of issues with the conservatory including  problems with the base, 
the roof and doors  leaking, damp  and mould,  and issues with the electrics. Repairs and 
remedial work have been undertaken but issues remain.
Hitachi Capital has said that no issues were raised  until 2016. Mrs H says that issues  were  
first noted  shortly after the conservatory was built and that she informed the supplier  about  
these. She says that Hitachi Capital was also informed and she was advised to discuss the 
issues with the supplier.  However, Mrs H says that there was limited  contact  with the 
supplier until February  2016.  A repair was then attempted but this didnt resolve  the issues 
and Mrs H made contact with Hitachi Capital again later that year. 
While I note the time that passed until repairs were undertaken and reports  carried  out, I 
accept Mr and Mrs Hs comments that issues were  experienced shortly after the 
conservatory was built. 
An inspection was carried  out in August 2017,  which confirmed a number of issues. The 
main issue  was identified  as being  the base not being square. However other  issues were 
identified such as areas not being properly sealed, a downpipe  not going into the gutter, 
minimal insulation, and the wrong plasterboards  being used. I note the comments Hitachi  
Capital made about this report, however I find that it clearly identifies a number of issues  that 
would have been present  from the point of installation.  
Based on the above I accept that the conservatory wasnt  built to a reasonable standard and 
a breach of contract occurred.
The supplier  has said that it was agreed with Mr H that the issue with the base wouldnt be 
rectified and that £2,600 in compensation was paid as part of this agreement. Mrs H said 
that the £2,600 was paid for the poor quality work on the base and damage to the front 
garden, patio  and grass. The settlement agreement notes the £2,600 is for poor quality base 
work and damage  caused to Mr Hs property.
 
While I accept that Mr H accepted compensation from the supplier in regard to the base 
work and this was clearly  a major issue with the conservatory, I dont  think this is sufficient to 
remedy this complaint. I say this because the initial inspection found a number of other  
issues that also showed the conservatory wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point  of 
installation. It is also not fair and reasonable to say that a settlement with the supplier stops  
Mr H from pursuing  Hitachi  Capital as under Section  75, Mr H is able to pursue  a claim 
against both the supplier  and Hitachi Capital. 
I note the comments Hitachi Capital made  about  the initial inspection. However another  
inspection was arranged  (June 2019) and this reiterated  a number of the issues raised in the 
initial report. The June  report also said that a number of areas  didnt have a damp proof 
course, steps didnt  meet  building standards and cracks were appearing at the join to the 
house. The report said the conservatory had a number of fundamental issues  and wouldnt 
be able to be repaired and should  be taken down and replaced. This was also the conclusion 
of the inspector that carried out the first report.
Based on the inspections,  I find that there was a breach  of contract as the conservatory has 
a number of fundamental faults.  I note the compensation that has been paid but this only 
Ref: DRN37848923addresses one area of concern. There  are other  major issues and given the evidence 
provided I think the only fair resolution  is for the conservatory to be removed at no cost to 
Mr H. His agreement should  also be cancelled with nothing  further  owing and his payments  
refunded. I note the comments  made  in the initial view about Mr Hs limited use of the 
conservatory and a deduction  for this. However,  as I find the conservatory needs  to be 
removed, leaving Mr H with no conservatory,  I think the only fair resolution is for all 
payments to be repaid along  with interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
In regard to the compensation  already paid, I agree this should be deducted  from the final 
settlement and agree with our investigators recommendation that £2,300  be deducted (that 
is allowing £300  to reflect the damage to the garden  and patio and the rest reflecting the 
damage to the garden and patio).
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plc should:
cancel the finance agreement with nothing further owing and, in the event there  is 
any adverse information relating to this agreement on Mr Hs credit  file this should  be 
removed and the account marked as settled;
arrange for the conservatory to be removed  at no cost to Mr H*;
refund  all payments  made by Mr H along  with 8% simple a year on all refunds from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement**. £2,300  should  be deducted from this 
refund to take account (in part) of the compensation already paid;
pay Mr H £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the issues he has 
experienced;
pay the cost of the report undertaken in June 2019 (invoice  for £280 has been  
provided). 
*In regard to the removal of the conservatory,  it is expected that this will be done  at a 
convenient time for Mr H and to a reasonable standard. In the event there  is any damage 
resulting from the removal (or as a result of the work undertaken to date) it is expected  that 
this will be made  good at no cost to Mr H.
**If Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr H how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN37848924Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3784892