K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr P complain  about how St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews)  dealt with and 
settled a claim they made under  their home  insurance policy for accidental damage following 
a fire.
background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 24 November 2020  a copy of which is set out here. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I intended to uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint  
about the way in which St Andrews dealt  with their home insurance claim. I also outlined 
how it should settle their complaint. I said:
What happened
Mrs and Mr P hold a home  insurance  policy with St Andrews. On 11 June 2018  they had a 
chip pan fire in their kitchen. And so, they contacted St Andrews to make a claim for the 
damage the fire had caused.
St Andrews  appointed a Personal Claims Consultant (PCC) to manage  and oversee Mrs and 
Mr P's claim. Following an inspection of their property,  St Andrews informed Mrs and Mr P 
that a very minimal area of fire related  damaged had been  observed in their kitchen. It said 
there was smoke damage to the kitchen, lounge and conservatory and a cupboard was 
scorched. And it informed  Mrs and Mr P it would limit any repair to areas that had been  
damaged by the fire.
As part of the remedial  work St Andrews said it replaced a couple of the kitchen cupboard 
doors and undertook redecoration. But Mrs and Mr P weren't happy with the scope of the 
work undertaken by St Andrews and thought the quality of the completed work was poor.  
They said one of the cupboard doors  was a lighter shade to the others. So, it didn't match.  
They also had concerns the cornices  in their kitchen didn't correctly  match. And they said 
one of their cupboard doors had warped and didn't  close  properly. Due to these concerns, 
and because Mrs and Mr P also felt they'd experienced  delays  in the progression of their 
claim, they complained.
St Andrews  responded to Mrs and Mr P's complaint on 18 October 2018. In its final 
response letter, it acknowledged the service  they'd received had been below the standard 
they were entitled  to expect. And it paid them £100 compensation to recognise  that. But St 
Andrews refuted Mrs and Mr P's view that one of the cupboard doors had been replaced in 
the wrong shade as it said the door looked  a lighter  shade due to the position of the door 
casting a shadow.
St Andrews  also stated that the cupboard door hadn't  warped - instead the hinges needed to 
be readjusted in order to resolve the issue. And it informed Mrs and Mr P that it had 
arranged for their kitchen  to be inspected so the work undertaken could be assessed.
Being dissatisfied with how St Andrews intended to resolve Mrs and Mr P's complaint they 
referred it to our service.  Our investigator assessed  the evidence  provided by Mrs and Mr P 
and St Andrews and recommended  upholding this complaint. They  thought the 
compensation St Andrews had offered didn't reflect the distress  and inconvenience Mrs and 
Ref: DRN36715502Mr P had experienced. So, they recommended awarding an additional £150 in 
compensation.
Subsequent to this our investigator  then informed Mrs and Mr P that they were  
recommending that St Andrews award £400  in compensation instead, which would  bring the 
overall total to £500.
St Andrews  didn't respond to our investigator's recommendations.  But Mrs and Mr P said 
they disagreed  with our investigator's view of this complaint. They  said they wanted  our 
service to tell St Andrews  to award an additional  £1000 in compensation. And they 
requested that an ombudsman  review their complaint.
my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I'm departing from what  
our investigator has said. I'll explain why.
Before I do though I'd like to thank both parties  to this complaint for the level of detail 
contained within their submissions.  I've considered all the information provided and, if I 
haven't specifically referred to a point  that Mrs and Mr P or St Andrews have made it isn't 
because I haven't  considered it. My decision  will focus on what I think are the key issues,  
which is an approach  that reflects the informal nature of this service.
I'm sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs and Mr P experienced here. I can see they feel 
very strongly  about this matter. And I appreciate the reasons why they've brought their 
complaint to our service. But while I sympathise  with them,  I must ensure that any decision I 
reach is fair to St Andrews too.
Mrs and Mr P told our investigator the remedial work to their property has now been 
completed. But they said it took St Andrews over 9 months to put their kitchen right and, 
during that time, there were periods when they were unable  to use their kitchen.
I understand that St Andrews  raised  concerns about our investigator addressing Mrs and Mr 
P's concerns about delay. But I can see they complained about delay to St Andrews as this 
is addressed in its final response  correspondence. They also mentioned their concerns 
about delay in the claim form Mrs and Mr P sent our service. So, I'm satisfied those 
concerns can be properly addressed in any decision I make.
Mrs and Mr P said they experienced avoidable  delays because  of the way their claim was 
progressed by the PPC. They said their original  PPC was replaced and they had 
disagreements with the replacement PPC.  They also say there were a number  of 
appointments made by the builders  attending  their property,  which  were cancelled  at short 
notice - resulting  in Mrs and Mr P having to take more time off work than should have been 
needed.
I've seen a chronology provided  by St Andrews, which details how work progressed  at Mrs 
and Mr P's property. Based on that chronology I'm satisfied  there  were  significant delays in 
reinstating Mrs and Mr P's kitchen to its pre-loss state. It's difficult to understand why it took 
so long for the work in their kitchen to be completed and I think St Andrews could  have done  
more to minimise the delay here.
Ref: DRN36715503I recognise that the delay Mrs and Mr P experienced while  waiting for the completion of their 
remedial works to the kitchen to be completed is likely to have caused upheaval and 
additional inconvenience  and frustration. I'm therefore satisfied that it's fair to award 
compensation to recognise that delay.  That said, I also have to bear in mind that claims for 
property damage can be complex and take time to resolve - even  where a claim  has been 
progressed proactively by an insurer. I should also add that it's inherent  with property 
damage claims that stress  and inconvenience  will be caused to a policyholder.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint St Andrews paid Mrs and Mr P £100 
compensation to acknowledge  the poor service they experienced. Our investigator initially  
recommended increasing that award  by £150 to a total of £250. They subsequently 
recommended awarding a total of £500  compensation, which  included  the £100  already  paid 
by St Andrews.
I'm not aware of St Andrews' observations on the compensation amounts our investigator  
recommended as it didn't respond  to their view of this complaint. I can see Mrs and Mr P are 
unhappy with both compensation recommendations our investigator  made.  In view of this 
I've thought carefully about what a fair resolution  to their complaint might  look like. And, in 
thinking about this, I've considered things from both sides.
Like our investigator I agree that the compensation St Andrews paid Mrs and Mr P 
recognises the impact  this all would  have had on them. But I don't agree that the further  
award of £400  that our investigator  recommended is reasonable. I haven't seen enough  to 
persuade me that an additional £400 is warranted  here.
We aren't here to punish businesses and, having thought  very carefully  about  the impact  all 
of this would  have had on Mrs and Mr P, I'm persuaded that an overall sum of £250 
compensation would fairly  reflect the overall trouble and upset they would have  been  
caused. I think this sum also takes  into account  the issues  Mrs and Mr P experienced in the 
quality of the work undertaken in their home.
I'm satisfied that an overall compensatory sum of £250 is consistent with our approach in 
similar scenarios. And it's in line with what I would have suggested had no offer been made. 
As St Andrews has already paid Mrs and Mr P £100  I'm therefore  minded to direct it to make 
an additional  payment of £150.
I know that Mrs and Mr P will be disappointed  with what I've said. But, for the reasons set 
out above, my provisional decision is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint and direct  St 
Andrews to pay £150 compensation to recognise  the trouble and upset Mrs and Mr P were  
caused.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made  my final decision, which is our service's  last word 
on the matter.
St Andrews  accepted my provisional decision and agreed to pay Mrs and Mr P the additional 
£150 compensation Id said I was minded to award.  But Mrs and Mr P responded that they 
were disappointed with my provisional decision.  In addition to explaining why they disagreed 
with my provisional decision,  Mrs and Mr P provided  photographs  of their kitchen cupboards. 
Mrs and Mr P disputed  what Id said about  their PPC telling them it would  limit repairs  to 
areas that had been damaged in the fire. They stated their PPC had assured  them  their 
Ref: DRN36715504insurance would cover everything   especially because  they were  very distressed by what 
had happened.
In their response to my provisional  view,  Mrs and Mr P also said St Andrews had reneged on 
their PPCs assurance that everything would be covered.  And they say they were given a 
kitchen that didnt match in colour. 
Mrs and Mr P said they remained unhappy  with the standard of the completed work to their 
kitchen. They said the agents St Andrews had appointed to complete  the reinstatement 
works were unprofessional  in their attitude  and the quality of the work they undertook was 
poor. Mrs and Mr P reiterated  their concerns that the cupboard door St Andrews replaced 
was a lighter colour to the remaining kitchen  units. And they disputed  that the colour 
difference is due to the shadow  of light in the kitchen as St Andrews believes. Mrs and Mr P 
also stated the cornices  St Andrews fitted  don't match. And they say the photographs 
theyve sent our service  support their concerns  as they show the wood colour and pattern.
In addition to the above  points, Mrs and Mr P said they were disappointed with my 
provisional decision. They didnt think Id acknowledged the length of time it took for the 
repairs in their house to be completed. They said theyd been caused additional distress and 
inconvenience because  the reinstatement work  ran into the Christmas period, which led to 
them cancelling festive celebrations with family  over that time. And they didnt  think  Id 
recognised that in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see Mrs and Mr P arent happy with my provisional decision.  I want  to assure  
them that, in considering their complaint, Ive thought very carefully about what happened  
here and Im satisfied  my decision is fair to both Mrs and Mr P and St Andrews  as it should 
be.
Ill deal first with Mrs and Mr Ps comments about what  they say they were told by their PPC. 
Theyve disputed that their PPC told them it would limit repairs to areas that had been 
damaged in the fire. And they say they were assured their insurance would cover  everything.
Im afraid Im not persuaded by what Mrs and Mr P have said here.  I say this because an 
insurer would usually  only cover  damage  caused  by an insured peril. And here the evidence  
Ive seen satisfies me that a very minimal  area of fire related damage was observed  by Mrs 
and Mr Ps PPC in their kitchen. This is also corroborated by the scope of works  drawn up.
PPCs are experienced in managing and overseeing claims on behalf of insurers.  So, Im not 
persuaded theyd  have  informed Mrs and Mr P an insurer would cover anything  over and 
above the damage observed - even  in circumstances  where they were very distressed.
Ill turn now to the comments  Mrs and Mr P have made regarding the quality of the work 
undertaken at their home  by those St Andrews  appointed. I referenced the concerns Mrs and 
Mr P have regarding their cupboard door and cornices in details in my provisional decision. 
Id like to thank Mrs and Mr P for the photographs they provided in response to my 
provisional decision. However, they dont change the provisional findings  Ive already made.
Ref: DRN36715505Im sorry  that Mrs and Mr P feel I didnt  acknowledged  the length  of time it took for the 
repairs in their house to be completed. I did refer to this complaint  issue in detail in my 
provisional decision. And I acknowledged  that it shouldnt  have taken  over 9 months for Mrs 
and Mr Ps kitchen to be reinstated to its pre-loss state. I recognised that there was 
avoidable delay  here.
In considering the impact of delay on Mrs and Mr P Id already  taken  into account that the 
works were ongoing over the Christmas period. Id also already considered  the time Mrs and 
Mr P were  inconvenienced by being  unable to use their kitchen. And this is why I was 
minded to increase the compensation  award from the amount St Andrews paid Mrs and Mr P 
when it responded  to their complaint. 
I know that Mrs and Mr P remain unhappy with the standard  of work undertaken at their 
home. And I realise they want  more  compensation. But I remain  persuaded that the overall 
compensation Ive suggested of £250 (less  the £100 already paid) fairly reflects  the trouble 
and upset they would have been  caused. As I explained in my provisional decision, I think 
this sum takes into account the issues Mrs and Mr P experienced in the quality of work 
undertaken in their home. I havent  seen anything to persuade me that a higher award is 
warranted here. 
While Im grateful to Mrs and Mr P for the comments and photographs theyve provided, they 
havent persuaded me to depart from the findings set out in my provisional decision.  I still 
think this complaint should be upheld  in line with my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. St Andrews Insurance Plc should pay 
Mrs and Mr P £150 to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3671550