K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (CEN) was irresponsible in lending him money 
and it telling him it had defaulted one loan.
background
Mr B has had three loans  from CEN. One for £300 taken out on 14 March 2015 was 
repayable in twelve monthly instalments  of £45.03.  The second was for £50 taken  out on 
8 September 2017. The third was £1050  taken out on 10 September  2017 repayable in 
twelve monthly instalments of £159.26.
Loans one and two were  repaid early  and werent rolled  over into other borrowing from CEN. 
Mr B missed  payments  for the third loan in February  and March  2018. Mr B says this was 
due to mistakes made by CEN. 
CEN rejected Mr Bs complaint and he brought it to this service. It was considered by one of 
our adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted CEN had carried out credit  
checks for each loan and had obtained details of Mr Bs income and expenditure. His 
declared monthly income in March 2015  was £1600 and his expenditure was £950. In 
September 2017 his income was £1670 per month and his expenditure was £950. In each 
case the monthly repayments were covered by his disposable income.
He noted the credit  report provided and didnt  believe this showed anything which would 
have caused CEN  to decline the loan applications. Mr B had repaid the two smaller loams  
early and the third was in dispute  due to the failed  repayments, but Mr B had shown that he 
had the funds available to cover  these repayments. Overall he thought  the checks  carried 
out by CEN were  proportionate for each loan. 
He also considered the complaint Mr B had made about his final loan being defaulted. He 
couldnt establish exactly why the payments hadnt  gone through.  CEN issued a notice of 
arrears email on 2 March 2018 and Mr B then made new payment arrangements  with the 
business.
He said that CENs records showed  that it tried to contact Mr B by phone on eight occasions 
between 2 March  2018 and 14 March  2018  regarding the arrears. Mr B made  a complaint to 
CEN on 27 March 2018 and made  further payment  arrangements in 31 March 2018. The 
next payment  also failed  and CEN  issued  a default notice on 18 April 2018.
The adjudicator thought  CEN could have done more between  31 March  and 18 April to 
contact Mr B regarding his arrears. However,  the adjudicator noted that CEN hadnt 
registered a default on his credit  file. As such he didnt  believe CEN need take any further 
action. He said Mr B should make  arrangements  to repay the balance. 
Mr B didnt agree and said that he had no record of CEN trying to contact  him about the 
missed payments. It had failed to enter the correct debit card details  and the failed payments 
were due to it making a mistake. He also said that he had a gambling habit and had applied 
for multiple  loans many  of which had been declined. However, he had been successful in 
taking out a number of loans, both short term and longer term. He said he had emailed CEN 
to let it know he had a gambling  problem and that he was using the loan to consolidate  
existing debt.
Ref: DRN36960882He also supplied copies  of his bank statements from 2017. These showed that his income 
was greater than CEN  had believed and that he had a number of short term loans and was 
making regular payments  to gambling  firms. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B, but I find myself in agreement with the adjudicator. CEN is 
required to carry out checks  before lending and those checks  need  to be proportionate to 
things like the size of the loan, the repayments, the customers  lending  history and what  the 
business already  knows  about the customer.
There are no set rules as to how these  checks are carried out, but CEN has said that its 
affordability reviews were in line with Financial Conduct Authority guidelines. It undertook 
credit checks and validated Mr Bs income  and expenditure information. Having done so it 
carried out its own credit scoring which led it to conclude  that the loans were affordable. 
Mr B repaid  the two smaller loans early and has said that he had the funds to maintain  
payments on the larger one, but these failed  due to errors made  by CEN. On that basis I can 
see no grounds for saying  they were unaffordable.  I appreciate the bank statements Mr B 
has supplied  show that he had other  loans  and that he was spending  money on gambling. 
Some, if not all of the loans will have shown  on the credit information CEN obtained prior to 
making the loans,  but holding number of loans  doesnt necessarily prevent further loans  
being made. It is unfortunate that CEN  wasnt aware of Mr Bs gambling, but it wasnt  
required to ask for bank  statements and so I cant say that the checks it made werent  
proportionate. His email about his gambling  wasnt sent to CEN until after the last loan had 
been approved.
As for the failed payments, like the adjudicator, I cannot say how these occurred.  I am 
satisfied that CEN sought to make contact  with Mr B, but to no avail.  I appreciate Mr B says 
he has no record of any such attempts, but I believe CEN did do so. It hasnt recorded a 
default against Mr B and so I have no reason to ask it to do anything in this regard. I think 
Mr B should  contact CEN to arrange repaying his loan and in turn I would remind  it to 
continue to work with Mr B positively and sympathetically in finding a way forward so that his 
debt can be repaid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision 
before 7 June  2019.
Ref: DRN36960883Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3696088