K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC recalled payments made to his personal 
accounts and registered a CIFAS marker against  him.
Background
Mr S was the director of a limited company, PLBH Ltd. The company held an account with 
Barclays.
In November 2018, Mr S made three payments,  totalling £17,500, from the companys 
account to his personal account with Barclays. He then transferred this sum to an account 
with another bank. He also made  two transfers  of £5,000  to two employees.
Barclays contacted  the receiving banks and recalled the payments. Mr Ss other bank told 
him Barclays said the payments were fraudulent.
As Mr S couldnt get access to the £17,500,  he transferred a further £10,000 and £7,500  to 
his other  bank accounts. Barclays  also recalled these payments. 
At the start of November  2018, PLBHs account  was overdrawn by £29,558.50. By the end 
of November 2018, it was £74,878.50 overdrawn.  Barclays used the returned payments to 
offset the overdraft.  It carried out a review of Mr Ss account and decided to close  it.
Mr S complained to Barclays.  He said it had wrongly accused him of fraud.  He asked 
Barclays to return the payments  to his personal account.
Barclays refused to refund him. In its final response  letter, it conceded that the payment to 
one of the employees was not fraudulent. However,  it stuck by its decision to close his 
account. As it had given  him short notice to close, it paid him £250 compensation.
Subsequently, Barclays registered a CIFAS marker against his name for misuse  of facility.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this outcome, so he brought  his complaint to this service. He wants  
the CIFAS marker removed and his money returned to him.
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold  it. She said:
PLBHs account was overdrawn. It couldnt  fund the transfers, which he made in 
November 2018, and the money  wasnt his to use. 
Some of the funds were recovered and returned  to the business  account. So, there 
was no financial loss.
As PLBH  is no longer  trading, this service cannot investigate  whether the payments 
were fraudulent or not.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view.  He has asked for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32787512The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good reason to 
believe it could have  suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press  
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should  be more  than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker  can have  on someone,  the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached  to record the CIFAS 
marker. 
In this case, PLBH had a substantial overdraft of £29,558 at the time the payments were 
made. Barclays said this was an unarranged overdraft and that it told PLBH it didnt have  
any funds to meet its expenses. Despite this, PLBH continued to make payments, which 
took the overdraft  to £74,878.50. 
Mr S disagrees. He said he had an arrangement with Barclays and it conceded that he 
hadnt acted fraudulently, albeit in respect  of one transaction. However, the overdraft was 
substantial. Barclays  closed the account and I understand it has written  off the debt. So, it 
has suffered a loss. Ive also seen the banks  notes for the PLBH account. They show that, 
in January 2018, the company agreed to a repayment plan and Barclays  placed restrictions  
on the account. This throws into doubt Mr Ss claim that he was spending against an 
arranged overdraft.
Given these facts, Im afraid  I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Barclays to 
remove the CIFAS marker.  Similarly, I think it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to offset  
the debt owing to it with the returned  payments  so I wont be asking Barclays to refund  Mr S.
I am sorry  this isnt the outcome  Mr S was hoping for. I understand Mr S is taking legal 
advice. He is still free to take his complaint to court  should he wish to do so.
Ref: DRN32787513My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278751