K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  concerns a whole  of life policy  they hold with The Royal London  
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited. Theyre unhappy the sum assured has been  significantly 
reduced and that the policy has little surrender value.
background
Mr and Mrs W started the policy  in 1996.  It provided  an initial sum assured of just over 
£16,400 for a monthly premium of £20 on a maximum basis, so guaranteed  for an initial 
10-year term after which it would be reviewed. 
The policy was actually  first reviewed in 2010  at which point  Mr and Mrs W opted to continue 
paying the same £20 premium for a reduced  sum assured of just over £13,000.  The policy 
was then reviewed  again  in 2015. 
Mr and Mrs W say they didnt  receive  any information about  this review, so they were  very 
surprised to later discover that the policys sum assured had been  reduced to just over 
£4,500. This prompted them to complain to Royal London  about the policy   specifically the 
drop in the sum assured, the apparent incorrect timing of the reviews  and the failure of 
Royal London to provide  them with information about the 2015 review.
Royal London didnt  uphold the complaint. It felt that the features of the policy,  particularly 
how the reviews would work, were clearly set out in the sales  documentation. It also noted 
that its records showed that Mrs W had responded in respect  of the 2015 review and had 
opted to carry on paying the £20 premium for the much-reduced sum assured, although 
thered been some  issue with the fact that Mr W hadnt signed the form.  
Mr and Mrs W referred their complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly  
the same  conclusion as Royal London. He acknowledged that the reviews  didnt appear to 
have been carried  out in strict adherence with the timings set out in the policys  terms. But 
he felt that if they had been, Mr and Mrs W would more  likely than not have responded in the 
same way regardless and chosen to maintain the £20 premium.  
He also noted  some discrepancies in the documentation  relating to the 2015 review but felt, 
on balance, that Mr and Mrs W had returned  the forms and so wouldve been aware of the 
change to the sum assured. He also felt that the policy had been administered  in line with 
the terms, and that the reviewable  nature of the policy had been explained at the outset. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept the investigators  view. They  remained unhappy that the sum 
assured had reduced to a level that was only about  the same as the total amount they had 
paid in premiums. Particularly  as the surrender value of the policy  was only a few hundred  
pounds. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN30272072From what  Ive seen Royal London has administered Mr and Mrs Ws policy  correctly. I 
appreciate the timing  of the reviews  doesnt  appear  to have been correct. But I dont think  
theyve been disadvantaged by this. As the policy was set up on a maximum basis, the initial 
sum assured and premium were only guaranteed  for 10 years. So, in some respects they 
benefitted from Royal Londons delay in carrying out the initial review as the guarantee 
effectively lasted longer.  
And, as the investigator noted,  I dont think it seems likely that if the reviews had been 
carried out at the correct  times the outcome, or Mr and Mrs Ws decision to simply continue 
paying the same premium, wouldve been any different. Not given that they chose to do this 
when both reviews  were eventually carried out. 
I appreciate they dispute the events  around  the later 2015  review. But having looked at the 
documents supplied since  the complaint was referred to this service it does seem  that the 
form accepting the much-reduced sum assured was returned, first signed  by only Mrs W and 
then with Mr Ws signature  added.  
I accept that a reminder letter  asking for the second  signature seemed to have been sent 
after the fully completed form was received.  But I think  its entirely plausible that this was 
simply due to an overlap  in the systems that sent these types of letter.  In short, Im satisfied, 
on balance, that the outcome of the review was communicated to Mr and Mrs W in 2015 and 
they responded in the same way they had done  in 2010, by electing  to maintain their 
premiums and accept the lower sum assured.
I understand that Mr and Mrs W are disappointed  the policy  now has a low sum assured and 
also little in the way of surrender value.  But I dont think  this is an indication that 
Royal London has done anything wrong. Its not the case that theyve had nothing in return  
for their premiums.  Theyve benefitted  from the life cover they sought  in 1996 for 23 years 
and have a policy that can continue to provide  cover,  albeit at a reduced level. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3027207