K822xcomplaint
Miss Hs complaint is about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has repaired her car and dealt  
with a claim on her motor insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
detail here.  Instead,  I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision.
background 
Miss H was involved in an accident  in August 2016 and she made a claim on her 
AXA motor insurance policy.  
In summary she remains unhappy  with the repairs to her car and says there are still 
accident related  problems which  have  resulted  in her being  unable to use it since  
June 2018. And this has affected her ability to work. 
Miss H would like AXA to cover  the costs  of making the car roadworthy, provide  a 
courtesy car while this is completed and compensate  her for her consequential  
losses.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  be upheld.
Miss H remains  dissatisfied and has asked for an ombudsman review. She says it 
isnt a fair result and she shouldnt  have to meet any of her out of pocket expenses. 
What has happened has greatly  affected  her financially and had a huge negative  
impact on her ability to live and work.  
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The parties have  provided detailed submissions  in this complaint, including Miss Hs very 
recent comments.  Ive  read and considered them all. But my findings  are expressed in 
considerably less detail. And they focus on what I think  are the main issues.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint  should be upheld for these reasons:
Miss H has been advised that the ongoing overheating problem was related to the 
accident repairs. But AXA disagrees and has said Miss H made the problem worse.  
The cars service history shows the water pump was replaced before Miss H bought 
the car.  And other components in the cooling system have been replaced  
subsequently leading to a period  of 10 months before the overheating problem re-
occurred.
Taking everything into account  I agree  with the investigator that it isnt possible to say 
on balance that the cooling system problems are related to the accident or the 
repairs carried out after it. 
Ref: DRN32630612After the investigators  involvement  AXA has agreed to write off the car from the date 
of the incident.  Miss H says she shouldnt have to write  off 50% of her cars value but 
that isnt what AXA has proposed. It has agreed to pay Miss H its full market value at 
that time.
AXA has also agreed to settle her repair  costs,  subject to proof of them, on a 50/50 
basis. I realise Miss H doesnt  think she should  have  to bear half of her costs. But I 
think on balance that AXAs  proposal is fair given the available evidence.  
And, despite AXA not originally agreeing to do so, I think  its also reasonable for it to 
pay interest on both the value of the car and the 50% of the repair  costs  as Miss H 
has effectively been deprived of the money  for her car and in respect  of the repairs 
she has paid for. 
But as AXA hasnt  been shown on balance to have been responsible for the cooling  
system problem I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require AXA to reimburse  or 
compensate Miss H for any other  consequential losses,  including  loss of earnings, 
car finance costs  or other  out of pocket  expenses, as Miss H would like.
I think its also apparent Miss H has been caused some  distress and inconvenience 
by the way AXA has handled  matters  and I think its fair for her to be paid some 
compensation for this. The investigator  recommended AXA pay £200 compensation 
and AXA has agreed to do so. Although I recognise Miss Hs frustration and strength 
of feeling, I think, taking everything  into account, including  the level of awards we 
make, that this is fair. And I dont think I can reasonably require AXA to pay anything  
more as Miss H would like.
Miss H has also suggested she mightve bought a defective car which wasnt  of a 
satisfactory quality. And she comments on what she considers is a lack of consumer 
protection having bought  the car with two credit cards. But these arent matters I can 
deal with in this complaint which relates  solely to what AXA has done in the claim.
Overall I think  the investigators proposed outcome  and redress represents a fair 
resolution of this complaint. And I dont think I can reasonably  require AXA to do 
anything more as Miss H would like.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about AXA Insurance  UK Plc and to put 
things right it should, if it hasnt done  so already:
1.Write  off Miss Hs car from the date of the accident and pay her its full market  value 
at that time plus simple interest at the rate of 8% a year* from the date of the 
accident until the date of settlement;
2.Pay 50% of  Miss  Hs repair costs, subject  to proof of them,  plus simple interest at 
the rate of 8% a year* from the date each such sum was paid by Miss H until the date 
of settlement; and
Ref: DRN326306133.Pay Miss H £200  compensation.
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss H 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year*  
simple.
*If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss H how much  its taken  off. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263061