K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited  took an unacceptable length of time to transfer the 
pension fund he held with it to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with an alternative 
pension provider. He considers hes lost out financially  as a result  of the firms  delay. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 June  2020.  I set out the background 
and circumstances  of the complaint in that decision.  
In summary,  it had taken  ReAssure about  28 days to complete the transaction after it 
received the request to transfer through the ORIGO transfer service on 16 April 2018.  The 
units Mr M was invested in were encashed the following day. But the money (£1,151,066) 
wasnt transferred to the new provider until 16 May 2018. The money took a few days  to 
clear and then was subsequently  invested through two discretionary fund managers (DFMs) 
starting on 25 May 2018. However as the disinvested funds had been held in cash during the 
interim Mr M considered  hed lost out on the fund growth during that period.
ReAssure had acknowledged that it was responsible  for a delay. And it had agreed to 
calculate and pay Mr M compensation. The dispute remaining was about  whether its method 
of calculating compensation was appropriate in the circumstances.
ReAssure had said that its usual standard service  level agreement  was to complete a 
transfer within 15 working days. So it calculated  the delay it considered  it was responsible  for 
in that context. And then used the funds that Mr M actually invested into once the transfer  
was complete as a basis to calculate  what the value of his new pension would have been if 
the transfer had been  completed earlier. The calculation showed  Mr M had lost out by about  
£574.
Mr M and his representative didnt agree with the method of calculation. They said it should  
either be calculated  assuming  the funds hadnt  been disinvested and had remained invested 
with ReAssure until a few days before the transfer  had actually completed. Or it should use a 
benchmark as a comparator; it said given a rising  market  the DFMs would have made  
different investment decisions had they received the funds at an earlier date.
In my provisional decision I said the 15 working day turnaround time was a good starting 
point to assess the matter. But I thought each transfer needed  to be considered on its own 
particular circumstances.  The transfer request had been made through the ORIGO transfer 
service which  was designed to speed  up the transfer  process.  Mr M appeared to have been 
invested in about thirteen mainstream  funds. They had been disinvested  the day after the 
instruction. I accepted  that the transfer was high value and therefore may have needed 
further checks. But I didnt think taking 15 working  days provided a reasonably  timely 
service.
I noted the June  2006  Association of British Insurers (ABI) statement of good practice said 
that requests  relating to transfers should  be completed within 10 working days.  And this had 
been prior to the ORIGO transfer service being put in place and reasonable expectations  
had moved on.  I accepted this was a high transfer  value  and so additional checks  may have 
been required. But I thought a 10 working  day turnaround time at most - from receipt of the 
ORIGO request to sending the transfer  value  - would have been reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN33897412I said I therefore needed to consider what would have happened  but for the delay. Mr Ms 
funds would have  been disinvested on the same date. So I didnt think  assuming theyd 
remained invested until closer to the transfer date was appropriate  it didnt reflect what  
should have happened.
And taking  everything  into account,  although  I understood  the logic behind the 
representatives view that a benchmark  should  be used for comparative purposes, I thought  
ReAssures use of the funds that Mr M actually invested in was likely  to reflect the actual 
position closer than a benchmark. Market prices had already risen by 4 May 2018. They did 
subsequently rise further by the time the DFMs actually  received the money. But I didnt 
think that the subsequent  rise was to such a degree that was likely that completely different 
funds would have  been selected. 
My provisional decision was to uphold the complaint. I said that I was minded to order  that 
ReAssure calculated compensation  by recreating the position Mr M would have been in if the 
transfer value  had been paid on Monday  30 April 2018  10 working days after receipt of the 
request. And that the monies would have  been invested by the DFMs from Friday 4 May 
2018  to reflect the same timeframes from sending as actual events.  I thought it should only 
use those investments as transacted  in May 2018  I didnt think  those after May 2018  would 
likely have been impacted by the delayed transfer  value.
I said that ReAssure  should then calculate  what the notional value would have been on 25 
May 2018 and compare  it with the transfer value of £1,151,066. If the notional value was 
higher, then the difference was payable as compensation to Mr M.
I said Id thought about calculating the value of the lost units (if any) as at the date of a final 
decision  in a similar way to how ReAssure had calculated its loss in August 2018. But a 
significant amount  of time had since passed.  The DFM may have sold those units  and 
bought others,  so I dont think it would result in a fair representation of any loss. I accepted  
that there  were arguments both ways.  But I thought if there was a loss, and to reflect how 
any loss would have  changed from 25 May 2018  to date, it should be increased/decreased 
in line with the overall performance of Mr Ms actual  SIPP from 25 May 2018 to the date of 
the decision. 
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider.
ReAssure didnt agree  with my provisional  findings.  It said, in summary,  that the provisional 
decision not only provided Mr M with the difference in the values at the requested  dates, but 
it also increased that value by the overall performance of the SIPP.   It didnt think  this was 
fair and reasonable as I had confirmed  that they have sold these units  and bought 
others. 
ReAssure provided  a timeline of the actual  events and then set out a revised timeline 
assuming that the transfer had been  completed  in its standard  15 working days  (due to the 
high value of the policy).  It said it appreciated this was never an exact  science, but it thought 
its suggestion was the most fair and reasonable way of establishing the most  likely critical 
date and provided the most reasonable outcome.
Mr M said that he was happy to accept the provisional decision. However he had one point 
of disagreement  which was about  interest not applying if ReAssure paid the compensation 
within 28 days. He said the point hed been  deprived  of the use of any lost funds  ran from 25 
Ref: DRN33897413May 2018 (based on the date I had specified to calculate the notional  value  of the 
investments) to the date the sum was paid by ReAssure. He said to reflect  this, a simple 8% 
should be applied  for that period.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive seen  no 
reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
Ive taken into account what ReAssure has said about a 15 working  day turnaround time. But 
I set out what I thought  was a reasonable timeframe and why in my provisional decision, and 
Im satisfied thats fair and reasonable in the particular  circumstances.  
I also explained why I thought revaluing  any loss from 25 May 2018 to the date of decision 
relative to the SIPP was reasonable.  My aim in awarding compensation is to try and put Mr 
M as closely back into the position  he would have been in but for any errors made by the 
firm. If the value of the SIPP as at 25 May 2018  would have been  higher but for any 
unreasonable delays, that money would  have been invested within the SIPP. So for the 
reasons I explained  in my provisional  decision,  I think mirroring the change in value of the 
SIPP from that date to the date of decision is a fair and reasonable way of revaluing any 
losses; the SIPP may have increased or decreased in value to the decision date (rather  
than, for example,  using an interest rate, which wouldnt  reflect those funds being subject to 
investment performance  for that period.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I order that ReAssure  Limited calculates and pays compensation to Mr M on the following 
basis. 
It should recreate  the position that Mr M would  have been in if the transfer value had been 
paid on Monday 30 April 2018  10 working days after receipt of the request. And the 
monies invested by the DFMs from Friday 4 May 2018. It should only use those investments 
as transacted  in May 2018. ReAssure should then calculate what the notional  value would  
have been on 25 May 2018 and compare it with the transfer value of £1,151,066.  If the 
notional value was higher,  then the difference is payable as compensation to Mr M.
To reflect how any loss would have changed  from 25 May 2018  to date, ReAssure should 
increase/decrease any loss calculated in line with the overall  performance  of Mr Ms actual 
SIPP from 25 May 2018 to the date of the decision (based on those contributions invested 
as at 25 May 2018).
The amount  calculated should  be paid into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of
charges and any available tax relief.  However  ReAssure shouldnt  pay the compensation 
into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If for any reason its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan it should
be paid directly to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any
Ref: DRN33897414income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms marginal rate of tax in retirement. 
I think Mr M will be a higher rate taxpayer  in retirement, so the reduction  should equal the 
higher rate of tax. However, if Mr M is able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should 
only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
ReAssure Limited should  add 8% simple interest per annum  to the compensation calculated 
at the date of a final decision  to the date of settlement, but only if settlement isnt paid within 
28 days of ReAssure Limited being  notified  of Mr Ms acceptance of it.
Its not entirely clear  to me what payments have already been paid to Mr M. I award Mr M 
£350 in total for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter  has caused. But 
ReAssure can deduct from that amount any payments that have already been made to Mr M 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 September  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3389741