K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that BUPA Insurance  Limited has refused a claim made under a private 
medical insurance policy. 
background
Mr D received treatment for depression by way of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(rTMS). He paid for it himself and asked BUPA to reimburse him. BUPA  refused to do so. It 
thought the treatment would only provide  temporary  relief of Mr Ds symptoms, and was 
therefore excluded  under the policy. Unhappy with this, Mr D brought a complaint to this 
service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 May 2019. My findings were:
BUPA turned down  the claim by relying on the following  exclusion:
Temporary relief of symptoms
We do not pay for treatment, the main purpose or effect of which is to provide
temporary relief of symptoms".
BUPA has referred  to guidance issued by the National Institute of Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) about rTMS. BUPA says that as NICE is very clear  rTMS  may offer short-
term relief,  it considers the treatment falls under the policy exclusion for temporary relief of 
symptoms. It also says that whilst NICE  broadly supports  the safety of rTMS, the guidance  
raised some concerns  for BUPA about its long-term effectiveness. In particular, its referred  
to the following comments from NICE:
1.2 During the consent process, clinicians  should, in particular, inform  patients about 
the other treatment options available, and make  sure that patients  understand  the 
possibility the procedure may not give them benefit.
1.3 NICE  encourages publication  of further evidence  on patient selection, details of 
the precise type and regime of stimulation used, the use of maintenance treatment  
and long-term outcomes.
Ive looked at the NICE guidance  on rTMS  that was published in December 2015. It says the 
evidence on its efficacy in the short -term is adequate. It also says that the treatment  is safe 
enough and works well enough for use in the NHS.  And that generally, the studies showed  
that the treatment  improved depression  symptoms  and quality of life. In some cases, it 
allowed patients to stop taking antidepressants.  The points 1.2 and 1.3 Ive quoted  above  
are also made. 
Whilst its clear  that NICE thinks the effectiveness of rTMS in providing  short-term relief is 
adequate, it seems it hasnt yet made  a decision on the effectiveness of the treatment in the 
longer term. Its therefore encouraging publication of further  evidence,  and presumably itll 
update its guidance in due course.  But that doesnt necessarily mean  rTMS isnt effective in 
the longer term,  it just means there isnt enough  evidence at the moment for NICE to make  a 
decision about this.  
Ive therefore  considered  the available medical evidence.  
Ref: DRN38738732Mr Ds treating consultant  psychiatrist (Dr Z) wrote  to Mr Ds GP about his treatment. He said 
I recommend one week of rTMS  depending  on how he is doing followed by maintenance 
rTMS when he goes into remission. If he requires a second week we will reassess  this in 
due course.
After Mr D had started receiving the treatment, Dr Z reviewed  him. He again wrote  to Mr Ds 
GP and said I reviewed  [Mr D] today  who reported  himself to have been very well following 
rTMS. He has not gone into remission, as it has only been three weeks.  I explained to him 
that the average at our centre was found  to be 4.3 weeks.  
I see that in the end, Mr D had daily sessions  for around four weeks in total. This is in line 
with NICE  guidelines which say that treatment usually comprises daily sessions, typically  for 
two to six weeks. 
Dr Z later provided further clarification on the rTMS treatment.  He said that all treatment for 
depression relieves  symptoms, but they have relapse rates. Dr Z explained that in his clinic, 
the full recovery  rate in treatment resistant depression (using  rTMS)  is over 60%.
After Mr D brought his complaint to us, Dr Z provided further comments. He said that in the 
treatment of depression,  theres no treatment that provides a permanent  cure.  Dr Z 
explained that all mental health  conditions run a chronic  course with acute  exacerbations 
and the acute exacerbations are kept at bay by maintenance, be it drugs, rTMS, 
electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) or therapy. He also explained that remission rates  with 
rTMS are almost  three times higher than those achieved by medication and ECT. 
I dont think it can be said that the main  purpose of rTMS is to temporarily relieve someones 
symptoms of depression,  and that once the effect  of the treatment has worn off, that person 
will go back  to experiencing the same  symptoms of depression. Whilst I appreciate  that 
could potentially happen, the same  could probably  be said for all forms of treatment for 
depression. However,  Dr Z has explained that in his clinic the full recovery rate for patients  
using rTMS is over 60%. 
I appreciate BUPA doesnt wish to cover  treatment where the symptoms of a medical  
condition are only temporarily relieved by that treatment. But I dont think thats  the case 
here. Patients can go into remission after having  rTMS treatment, so I dont agree that the 
main purpose or effect of that treatment is to temporarily relieve  someones symptoms  of 
depression. 
Dr Z does say that once Mr D was in remission, he would recommend maintenance rTMS. 
Dr Z doesnt specify how often this would be needed  or how long it would be needed for. But 
he does make the point  that all mental health conditions  have acute  exacerbations that are 
kept at bay by maintenance. The policy doesnt  cover conditions that require long-term  relief  
of symptoms, but since we dont  know  how long Mr D would require maintenance rTMS,  I 
dont think that matters at this point.
Overall, I think the evidence from Dr Z supports that rTMS doesnt just provide temporary  
relief of symptoms and instead could lead to full recovery. That being the case, I dont  think it 
was reasonable  for BUPA to rely on the exclusion to turn down the claim.  
In its correspondence  to us, BUPA has said it thinks rTMS isnt eligible  treatment.  The 
policy defines this as:
Ref: DRN38738733treatment of a condition  together  with the products and equipment used as part of the 
treatment that:
are consistent with generally accepted  standards of medical  practice and 
representative of best practices  in the medical  profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate  in terms of type, frequency,  extent,  duration  and the 
facility or location where the services  are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and 
are not provided  or used primarily for the expediency of you or your consultant or 
other healthcare  professional
and the treatment, services or charges are not excluded  under your benefits.
BUPA has referred  to matrix tables from NHS Scotland  which  it says shows that the 
accepted and recommended standard treatment for depression is behavioural therapy, 
unlike rTMS that helps  temporarily with symptoms in a clinical setting and doesnt aim to 
cure. 
BUPA also says that as rTMS isnt a generally accepted medical  standard  and isnt yet 
demonstrated to be effective in improving health outcomes, it doesnt meet its definition of 
eligible treatment. 
Unfortunately, the link that BUPA  has provided  us to the matrix tables no longer works.  
However, Ive found some  matrix tables from NHS Scotland (from 2014) which do indeed  
show that the recommended treatment for depression is behavioural therapy (as well as 
other types of therapy).  However, my understanding is that rTMS is often used when other  
treatment for depression  hasnt worked,  so this information isnt particularly relevant. Also,  
the information was updated in 2014, however the NICE guidance on rTMS wasnt  published 
until December 2015. And the matrix tables Ive looked at dont say that rTMS only helps 
temporarily with symptoms in a clinical  setting  and doesnt aim to cure. I therefore assume 
thats BUPAs own opinion, rather than a published  statement by NHS Scotland.  
NICE has said that generally, studies showed  rTMS treatment improved depression  
symptoms and quality  of life. Its therefore approved the use of rTMS in the NHS (I 
understand there are at least two NHS  trusts who offer the treatment). I therefore  dont  agree  
with BUPA  that it hasnt yet been demonstrated that rTMS improves  health outcomes. I dont 
think BUPA  has shown that rTMS  doesnt meet its definition of eligible treatment.
I therefore intend to require  BUPA to reimburse  Mr D for the cost of the treatment, plus 
interest.
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Mr D responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision, and to confirm his treatment 
continued for three more months  after the invoices he submitted  with his complaint.
BUPA didnt  provide any further comments.
Ref: DRN38738734my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr D says his treatment  continued for three  months  after the invoices he submitted with his 
complaint. In my provisional decision, I noted that Mr D had had daily sessions for around 
four weeks  in total, which I said was in line with NICE guidelines. I dont know  how many 
further sessions  Mr D had over the additional three months, but even if this exceeded the 
NICE guidelines I would assume  that as a specialist, Dr Z recommended the further 
sessions because they were in Mr Ds best interests. 
I therefore remain satisfied that BUPA should reimburse Mr D for the treatment. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  Insurance  Limited to accept 
the claim in accordance with the remaining policy terms. It should  reimburse  Mr D as 
appropriate for the cost of the rTMS  treatment.  Interest  should be added  at the rate of 8% 
simple from the date each  invoice was paid to the date of settlement*.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
*If BUPA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3873873