K821x#15complaint
Mr Y says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Mr Y bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  The credit card 
and PPI were taken out during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr Y disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Lloyds made  Mr Y aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Ys credit  card application form 
from the time of sale.
On the form, under  the section headed  TSB Credit Card Payments Insurance , I can see      
Mr Y had the option of selecting  whether or not he wanted the PPI added  to his card. Theres  
a tick in the box next to the statement Tick here if you would to be covered  by TSB Credit 
Card Insurance. So, I think Lloyds made it clear to Mr Y that the PPI was optional. And I 
think he agreed to it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr Y, and the policy  seems  to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  He was eligible for cover and I 
cant see that he would have been  affected  by any of things the policy didnt cover  such as 
pre-existing medical conditions. 
Mr Y has told us he was self-employed at the time of sale, so Ive looked  at whether this 
means the policy wasnt right for him. Having reviewed the policy  terms and conditions,  I can 
see that it wouldnt have  been more difficult for Mr Y to claim than an employed policy 
holder. So I dont think Lloyds was wrong to recommend  the PPI to him.
Mr Y has told us that he didnt have  any savings, but could have relied on friends and family 
to help with his credit card repayments. While I appreciate that Mr Ys friends and family may 
have wanted to help him, Im mindful that their financial situation could change  which  might  
mean their help couldnt always  be relied upon. So I dont think this would  have meant that 
the policy wasnt suitable for him.
Ref: DRN30069512I also havent seen  anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr Y when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular  need to keep costs down. So, overall,  I 
think Lloydss recommendation was suitable. And I think Mr Y could have found the cover 
useful if he ever fell on hard times.
In addition to making  sure the policy was suitable for Mr Y, Lloyds also had to give him clear  
enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Lloyds didnt  give him all the 
information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been, for the reasons  Ive already explained,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have stopped Mr Y buying it.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr Y, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Mr Y says there have  been other court  cases in relation to non-disclosure  of commission  
where consumers have received everything back.  So he thinks Lloyds should refund all of 
the money paid for the PPI.
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr Ys complaint is the law. But I also need to take into account 
relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Lloyds  has made Mr Y an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr Y wants 
Lloyds to do something different. 
I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr Y and his complaint  to see if theres 
anything about  him that would mean Lloyds should  do something different  if the remedies 
set out in the FCAs rules dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for Mr Y. But there  isnt 
anything about  Mr Ys complaint or circumstances that suggest  the redress offered by Lloyds 
isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Lloyds  offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr Y any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr Y any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN30069513Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr Y the difference between 
what Mr Y owes and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr Y 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr Y can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr Y any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3006951