complaint
Ms A has complained that Aviva  Insurance Limited  avoided her car insurance policies and 
didnt settle her claim for the damage to her car because of this.
background
Ms A took out her first car insurance policy with Aviva through  a broker  in May 2017 and 
shortly after taking this out she got her car vinyl wrapped. The wrapping cost around £2,000 
and changed the colour of the car.
In May 2018  Ms A renewed her policy with Aviva  through the broker. And in January 2019  
her car was damaged during a collision. So, Ms A made a claim with Aviva in late February 
2019 for the damage.
Aviva investigated Ms As claim.  It asked  her for proof of her address, which Ms A didnt 
provide. But it agreed to repair  the car - until it received the estimate  and images of the car, 
which showed it was vinyl wrapped  - something  Ms A hadnt told Aviva  about. So, Aviva  
avoided Ms As policies  and rejected  her claim on the grounds shed failed to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation.
Ms A was unhappy  with Avivas decision. She said she didnt know  that her car being 
wrapped was a modification. So, she complained to Aviva. Aviva responded and didnt 
uphold Ms As complaint. It said, as Ms A also hadnt provided proof of her address, it had 
decided to avoid  both her policies from when  they started, as it thought  shed given it the 
wrong address  when  buying her first policy. But it confirmed it had intended to cover the 
costs of repairs until it found the vehicle  was vinyl wrapped. And it said that, as Ms A didnt 
tell it about this, it had decided  not to pay for the repairs after all.
Ms A remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked 
into this and didnt  uphold it. She said that Ms A ought to have known the wrapping of her 
car was a modification  and she should have  told Aviva  of this at renewal in May 2018. And 
she felt Aviva was entitled to avoid Ms As policies and decline her claim.
Ms A disagreed with our investigators view and still thought Aviva  should pay for the repairs 
to her car. So her complaint was passed  to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
I issued a provisional decision in June this year. In this I explained that I was satisfied Aviva  
was entitled to avoid both Ms As policies  on the basis  she had misrepresented the address 
at which  she kept her car and failed to let it know shed  had it vinyl wrapped. I gave both 
parties a month to provide  further information and evidence.
Aviva said it had nothing  further to add. Ms A responded to say that my provisional  decision
K820x#14
Ref: DRN3583895was based on wrong  assumptions.  This was because she thought  Aviva  would still have 
insured her car if it had known it was vinyl wrapped. And she also said that she had not 
given her other address to gain financially, but because it was where the car was registered 
and her brokers had automatically insured it there. Ms A also said shed never  had a refund 
of her premiums from Aviva. I also spoke to Ms A over the telephone  and she provided 
similar comments. And she made  it clear she did keep her car at her other address most of 
the time,  at least from renewal of her policy in 2018  onwards.
Having considered Ms As comments, I changed my view and said to Aviva I didnt think she 
failed to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation by not telling it shed had her 
car wrapped.  I explained this was because I now accepted  she didnt realise this was a 
modification she needed to let Aviva  know about.  I also said I was likely to say that she 
carelessly misrepresented that she kept her car at what Ill refer to as address A. And that I 
was likely to require Aviva  to settle her claim proportionately because of this. And I asked 
Aviva to provide  me with the premium Ms A would have paid in 2018  if shed given the 
address she kept the car as the one she seems  to live at now,  which I will refer to as 
address B. Aviva provided information on the premium, but didnt comment  further on Ms As 
misrepresentations.
I then issued a second provisional  decision and Ive set out what  I said in the provisional 
findings section  of this below:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained in my previous provisional  decision Aviva and Ms As obligations  under The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012. And Ive now considered 
further whether  Ms A failed to take reasonable care not to make  misrepresentations when  
she took out her policy in May 2017  and when she renewed it in May 2018.
Im now satisfied Ms A didnt fail to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she renewed  her policy in May 2018  by not telling Aviva  her car had been vinyl 
wrapped. This is because  my research suggests most reasonable consumers dont realise  
that wrapping is a modification that needs  to be declared. This is because it doesnt  enhance  
performance and is really cosmetic and a sort of paint protection system. I think if insurers  
want consumers to realise this is a modification  they need to make this clear in the question 
they ask about  modifications or by an accompanying note. This means  I dont think Aviva 
was entitled to avoid Ms As policy from renewal in 2018 on the basis  she made a qualifying  
misrepresentation regarding the vinyl wrapping  of her car.
Turning now to whether  Ms A made a qualifying misrepresentation  on the address where  her 
car was kept. When I spoke to Ms A on 20 August I asked her to provide me with a copy  of 
the registration document for her car, so I could see it had always  been  registered to 
address A. She told me it would be difficult for her to obtain  this, as the original was at 
address A and she was currently staying at address B. But she told me she would go to 
address A to get it and send me a copy.  I wanted  to see this to back up Ms As assertion that 
the reason she gave  this address for where  her car was kept was that the car was registered 
there.
Ms A still hasnt provided  this, as far as I can see, so Ive decided  to proceed without it and 
accept her testimony that the car was registered to address A. But I think it is most likely it 
was kept at address B when she took out her policy in May 2017 and when she renewed it in
Ref: DRN3583895May 2018. And the evidence  Ive seen and heard suggests Ms A said when she applied for 
her policy that the car was kept at address A, when she should have explained she spent 
most of her time at address B and kept it there. And then when  she got the renewal 
documents in May 2018 and they showed the car was kept at address A, I think  Ms A failed 
to tell Aviva  this was wrong and that it was normally kept at address B. I think this means Ms 
A failed  to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation  on both these occasions.
Ive established  with Aviva that it would have charged a higher premium at renewal in 2018 if 
Ms A had told it that her car was kept at address B, although I am still to establish exactly 
what that premium would have been  compared to the premium she actually paid. I havent 
got anything to show the premium at inception in 2017 would  have been  higher, but I am 
willing to accept it would have been based on the fact it was at renewal in 2018. Aviva has 
mentioned it would not have insured Ms As car if it was worth over £75,000 if it wasnt  kept 
in a garage overnight, but it seems it wasnt worth this much when she took out the policy.
This means  Im satisfied Ms A made  qualifying  misrepresentations  on both these occasions. 
But, I now think these were careless,  as opposed  to deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentations, on the basis  Ms A gave address A, as her car was most likely registered  
there.
Under CIDRA the remedy for a careless  qualifying misrepresentation where the insurer 
would have charged a higher premium is a proportionate settlement of any claim. And where 
there hasnt  been  a claim, the policy can carry on and if there  were  or are any claims these  
would be settled proportionately. As far as I know Ms A didnt make any claims on the policy  
she took out in May 2017. And this means  this policy  simply needs  to be noted on Avivas  
systems as reinstated and any record of it being  avoided removed from its records  and any 
central databases. The same should  happen  with the policy  Ms A took out when  she 
renewed in May 2018, but the claim under this policy  should  be settled proportionately based  
on the premium she should  have paid using the formula set out in CIDRA. As Ive said, I am 
yet to establish what the correct premiums are for this calculation, but it looks like Ms A is 
likely to receive less than 50% of the cost of repairing her car in settlement of her claim. And 
I think me requiring Aviva to take these actions is the fair and reasonable outcome to Ms As 
complaint.
I gave both parties until 29 September to respond  to this provisional  decision  originally  and I 
then extended  the deadline to 23 October for Ms A respond. Aviva  hasnt responded on the 
merits of the complaint. But it has said the premium would have been £2,729.59 when the 
new policy started at renewal in May 2018 against the premium Ms A actually paid of
£1,1131.82. This means Ms A paid 41% of the premium she would have paid if she taken 
reasonable care and not misrepresented the address  where her car was kept.
Ms A hasnt responded to my second  provisional  decision  despite  phone calls to check shed 
received it, as well as a follow up email  checking she had and extending the deadline  for her 
to respond to 23 October.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN3583895As neither party has responded on the merits of the case  and my provisional findings  as set 
out in my second  provisional  decision, I see no reason to alter my view on what  I think is the 
fair and reasonable outcome to Ms As complaint.
Now that Aviva has clarified the premium Ms A would have paid if shed given the correct 
address for where her car was normally kept, my calculations suggest  Aviva should pay 41% 
of her claim  for the damage to her car, less any excess applicable. But Aviva  should check 
this is in line with the appropriate formula set out in CIDRA. And settlement will be subject to 
Ms A providing an invoice  to show she has had the repairs  carried  out a reasonable cost.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  dated 15 September 2020, I 
uphold Ms As complaint and Aviva  Insurance Limited must do the following:
Reinstate the policy Ms A took out in May 2017 and remove any reference of it being  
avoided from any internal and external databases.
Reinstate the policy Ms A took out at renewal  in May 2018 and settle her claim under 
it proportionately using the formula set out in Schedule  1 of CIDRA for proportionate  
settlements.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Robert Short
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3583895