K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Mrs N says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs N aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding  the 
policy to her card. I cant know for certain  what was said at the time Mrs N applied for her 
card and PPI but FICL has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork. Mrs Ns application 
form had a separate section for PPI that Mrs N has signed separately to accept the PPI. The 
application form has also been signed  in agreement with the selections  that were  made  on it. 
With this in mind I think its more likely FICL  made it clear that the PPI was optional and that 
Mrs N chose to have  it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs N so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs N got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay and help from family. But the PPI would have paid out 
in addition to Mrs Ns sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full pay. And 
while Mrs Ns family  would  have  wanted  to help their ability to would have been dependent 
on their circumstances  at the time which could have changed. So I dont think this offer of 
help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ns circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs N.
Ref: DRN35431482my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543148