K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc gave him poor service  and unfairly declined  a 
claim he made on his motor insurance  policy.
 
background
In August  2018,  after Mr Ms car was driven by someone who wasnt  insured on the policy, it 
was damaged in an accident. Mr M had given his keys to a friend (Mr R) who drove him to 
a pub. Later that night Mr R gave the keys to another friend of Mr M (Mr W). Mr M says 
Mr R asked Mr W to return them to Mr M, but Mr W drove the car away  instead.  
AXA began to deal with Mr Ms claim and provided a hire car for 21 days.  It declined  the 
claim in February 2019. AXA said the policy didnt cover damage to a car caused by fire or 
theft if at the time of the incident  it was under  the control of anyone who wasnt covered by 
the policy. It asked  Mr M to pay for the car hire hed had. In reply to Mr Ms complaint, in 
August 2019 AXA said hed breached the terms of his policy,  so its decision didnt change. 
Mr M complained to this service. He said he hadnt breached  the policy,  and had continued 
to pay his premiums, yet his car still hadnt been repaired. Later on, he said AXA had 
threatened legal  action  if he didnt  pay it the money it said he owed, after cancelling  the 
policy. He also said it had taken too long to deal with his complaint and that AXA hadnt kept 
him updated, despite his requests for contact  from it. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He thought AXA had acted reasonably, 
in declining the claim, given that Mr M had given the control of his car to Mr R. As the claim 
was complex, he thought  it was reasonable for AXA to have taken  until February 2019 to 
reach a decision.  He thought AXA could have  replied  sooner to Mr Ms complaint,  but said 
Mr M had the right to complain to us within eight weeks  of making  it anyway. He thought  
AXA had acted in line with the policys terms in limiting  car hire to 21 days and in later asking 
Mr M to pay for it, when  it decided  not to cover  the claim. And he said Mr M could have 
applied for an off the road notice for the car, rather than continue  to pay the premiums.   
Mr M said Mr R was insured to drive  other  cars, and that Mr R hadnt broken the law by 
giving the keys to Mr W to pass back to Mr M. He said he shouldnt  suffer  due to Mr W 
deciding to drive  the car. The investigator still thought  AXA had acted reasonably.  
As there was no agreement, Mr M asked  for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R may have  had a policy that allowed  him to drive other peoples cars, but assuming he 
did, the cover would have been limited. Had Mr R had an accident whilst driving Mr Ms car, 
it would  only have covered any damage caused  to other cars,  not damage  to Mr Ms car. 
The policy exclusion  for claims  arising from fire or theft says theres no cover if at the time of 
an incident the insured car is under the control  of someone who isnt covered by the policy, 
with the policy holders permission. So as Mr R wasnt a named driver on the policy,  I think  
when Mr M gave him the keys, AXA ceased  to have liability for any damage to the car.
Ref: DRN33089092Mr M says it wasnt unlawful  in itself for Mr R to hand the keys to Mr W. But I think by giving 
the keys to Mr R and then not taking them back, Mr M took a risk in terms of what might  
happen later. He left the car under Mr Rs control,  and the accident flowed from that 
decision. It was unlawful  for Mr W to act as he did, but he couldnt  have done so without the 
keys. Mr M cant be sure what  was said between Mr R and Mr W when the keys were 
handed over  but the police accepted that Mr M didnt  give permission for Mr W to use the 
car. Given that fact, I understand  why Mr M is upset that the claim was declined,  but I dont 
think hes shown that AXA acted unreasonably. 
To benefit from the policys  cover,  Mr M had a duty to take reasonable steps  to protect the 
car from damage.  In my view, it was for him to ensure  that the keys were  safe.  That would 
have meant  there was no access  to the car for anyone  to use it without his permission. 
Instead, he left the control of the keys with Mr R, and in doing  so he took a risk, as he didnt 
know what Mr R might do with them. So I think it was fair for AXA to decline the claim.
I dont think there were unreasonable delays in AXA dealing with the claim. The file notes 
show that it had to chase Mr M for some of the documents it needed to consider the claim. In 
November 2018  it was still waiting for the cars V5 registration document  and a theft report 
from Mr M. And in January 2019 AXA was still waiting for further details  from the police. It 
declined the claim  shortly after that.
In terms of the hire car, Mr M was only entitled  to keep it for 21 days from August 2018 
unless AXA agreed to repair his car. In that case, the policy  would have allowed Mr M to 
keep it until the repairs were done.  But AXA didnt  have the documents from Mr M that it 
needed to decide whether to cover  the claim and repair  the car until November 2018. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for it to withdraw  the hire. As the claim was later declined,  I 
think it was also reasonable for AXA to ask Mr M to refund the cost of hire, although it. It said 
he wasnt obliged to do so. 
In terms of Mr Ms complaint  about  AXAs decision,  as he wasnt easily  contactable at the 
time, AXA emailed his father on 6 March 2019 to say its complaints team was looking into 
the matter. AXA says it didnt receive  the letters Mr M sent to it in March and April 2019 
chasing a response. As Mr M couldnt have known that, I think  his frustration with the lack of 
a reply was understandable. AXA also says its complaints  workload was such  that it couldnt 
have replied to the complaint earlier than it did. After  Mr M contacted  us we wrote to AXA in 
June 2019. It sent Mr R its final response letter  in August 2019. 
I think AXA should have  updated Mr M, even if it didnt get his letters,  and regardless of any 
delays in its complaints-handling. But Mr M was able to complain  to us anyway. And when 
AXA reviewed his complaint, it only confirmed its earlier decision not to deal with the claim. 
As I think  its decision  was reasonable, in my opinion the impact  on Mr M of the delay in AXA 
considering his complaint was more limited  than it would otherwise have been. 
Mr M says he wasnt able to use the car as it remained unrepaired whilst his claim and 
complaint were ongoing. But I dont think there  was any delay on AXAs part until 
January 2019,  as Ive said above. From  what Mr M has told us about his personal 
circumstances, he wasnt able to use the car from January 2019 onwards anyway. He thinks  
the policy premium should  be refunded. But Mr M had the benefit of the policy  even when he 
couldnt use the car. It would have covered events such as vandalism until the policy ended.
 
AXA has told us the policy renewed  in April 2019 and it has shown us evidence that Mr M 
didnt pay the premium instalments after March 2019. As he had cover  until June 2019, on 
Ref: DRN33089093the basis of the details  Ive seen, I dont think it was wrong for AXA to chase Mr M for the 
extra premium he owed.  If Mr M has any concerns  about the policys  renewal, or its later 
cancellation, its open to him to raise the issues with AXA.      
Although I think AXA should have kept Mr M better informed,  as I think  it acted reasonably 
overall, I dont think it would be appropriate  to uphold Mr Ms complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308909