K821x#15Complaint
Mr D complains CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr D took seven loans  with QuickQuid between March 2017 and January 2018.  Ive included 
some of the information  weve  received  about  these loans in the table below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest  
Repayment
1 06/03/2017 01/04/2017 3 £400 £505.60
2 03/04/2017 30/05/2017 2 £600 £758.40
3 15/06/2017 20/06/2017 2 £500 £624.00
4 21/06/2017 06/10/2017 3 £500 £616.00
4A 24/06/2017 06/10/2017 3 £100 £739.20
5 21/10/2017 29/10/2017 3 £600 £758.40
6 29/10/2017 08/01/2018 3 £600 £758.40
7 23/01/2018 Outstanding 3 £600 £753.60
The loans were  intended to be repaid over either two or three instalments. The final 
repayment for all loans being made up of principal  and interest. Earlier instalments were  
lower, being interest  only payments. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint, concluding  QuickQuid shouldnt have given him 
loans 2 to 7. QuickQuid agreed with the adjudicators proposed  settlement and calculated  a 
refund of interest  and charges in line with the adjudicators recommendation. It wasnt 
though able to confirm  the final payment that would  be payable to Mr D. QuickQuid says this 
is because it needs to establish  Mr Ds outstanding balance  for loan 7 before offsetting this 
against the refund to complete the settlement  calculation.
Mr D didnt accept the settlement  proposed.  He says he would like to know  the actual 
payment payable at the date of settlement, including compensatory interest  on the refund to 
that date.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
QuickQuid had to assess Mr Ds applications for borrowing  to check if he could afford  to pay 
back the amounts  hed borrowed  without  undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which 
was proportionate to the circumstances.  QuickQuids checks could have taken into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments 
and Mr Ds income and expenditure. With this in mind, I think  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, less thorough checks might have been  proportionate.
Ref: DRN32133572But certain factors might  suggest  QuickQuid should  have done  more to establish  that any 
lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
The amounts  to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long 
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming  back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid 
(also suggestive  of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D.
QuickQuid was required to establish whether Mr D could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough  money  to make his repayments.  Having enough  
money to make the repayments could of course  be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay 
his loans sustainably.  But it doesnt  automatically  follow that this is the case. The FCAs 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  states payments are sustainable if they are made 
without undue difficulties  and in particular, made on time, while  meeting other reasonable 
commitments and without having  to borrow  to make them. If a lender realises, or ought 
reasonably to have  realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further, then it follows that it should conclude  those  repayments  are 
unsustainable.
Ive considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator that it was unlikely Mr D would be able to repay  loans 2 to 4 
sustainably. These loans were repayable over 2 or 3 instalments with the final repayment for 
each loan representing around 50% to 60% of Mr Ds monthly  income. Loan 1 had also been 
quite large relative  to Mr Ds income, and he appears to have had some difficulty repaying 
one of the instalments on time,  before applying for loan 2 just two days  later.  I think  the 
circumstances suggested Mr D was likely  borrowing again in order to fill the gap created in 
his finances by having to repay his previous  loan.  This isnt a sustainable  way of repaying 
credit, and so I dont  think QuickQuid should  have  lent further  amounts  to him given this 
situation. Loans 3 and 4 followed a similar pattern, with large repayments  and rapid  re-
borrowing, so it follows that I take the same view for these.
Having looked  at Mr Ds overall pattern of borrowing, I also agree with our adjudicator  that by 
loan 5 the pattern of lending alone meant  QuickQuid  should reasonably have  seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable. So I dont think it should have lent loans 5 to 7. I say this 
because Mr D was borrowing broadly similar amounts  (between  £400 to £600) and these still 
appeared to represent quite a significant proportion of his income. There were  also remained 
relatively few gaps between loans, on average around just over a week.  And with the pattern 
of borrowing  extending  over a period of more  than half a year, it doesnt seem  likely that his 
underlying situation was improving.  
Ref: DRN32133573So overall, I agree with what our adjudicator has said, and I can see that both Mr D and 
QuickQuid also appear to agree with it in principle.  QuickQuid  has made an offer, however 
there remains a dispute over the exact  figures  as I outlined earlier on in my decision.
I can appreciate Mr Ds concern that he doesnt  feel comfortable accepting  the offer 
QuickQuid has made  as the outstanding  balance hasnt been confirmed. He also feels  that 
any compensatory interest  he receives on top on the refund of interest  and charges should  
be calculated to the date he receives the refund. 
Its usually the case  with complaints about irresponsible lending  that some  work will be 
necessary after the complaint in order to determine the precise  settlement figures. I would 
expect QuickQuid to calculate any compensatory interest up until the day Mr D receives the 
refund the interest relates to, so Mr D neednt worry about this. 
Im not able to include the outstanding balance here as the most up to date amount isnt yet 
known. However, the loan in question was for a principal amount of £600.  I can see that 
Mr D had made repayments of just under  £500  towards the loan as of 30 November 2018, 
meaning its unlikely  that there will be much  of a deduction from any settlement he receives.
Mr D has recently  commented on some other things he thinks  QuickQuid  and a debt 
management company  have  done wrong,  relating  to the way he was treated when he was in 
financial difficulties. These matters didnt form a part of the complaint Mr D has brought  to 
us, so Ive not looked into them as part of this decision. If he has not already done so, then 
Mr D may want to take them up separately  with QuickQuid and the other  company hes 
mentioned.
Putting things  right - what  QuickQuid needs to do
QuickQuid shouldnt have  given Mr D loans 2 to 7, so its not right that he should  have to pay 
interest, fees or charges  on these loans, or have them affect  his credit file in a negative  way. 
So to put things right QuickQuid  must buy the outstanding loan back (if it has sold it) and 
then take the following steps. If it has sold the loan and isnt able to buy it back  then it should 
liaise with the new loan owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards  interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 to 6, not including anything it has already refunded.  
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made the payments, to the 
date Mr D receives a refund. 
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 7, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr D as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this 
results in Mr D having made  overpayments  then these overpayments should be refunded  
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Refund the amounts calculated  in A 
and B and move to step E. 
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 7. If this results in a surplus  then the 
surplus should be paid to Mr D. However if there  is still an outstanding balance  then an 
affordable repayment  plan should be agreed with Mr D. 
Ref: DRN32133574E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to loans  2 to 
4A. The overall  pattern of Mr Ds borrowing for loans 5 to 7 means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse, so these loans should  be removed entirely  from Mr Ds credit file. If 
any of the loans have been  sold the debt purchaser should be asked to do the same. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to deduct tax from this interest. QuickQuid 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
(trading as QuickQuid) to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3213357