K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that White Dove Garages Limited failed to clear  the outstanding  finance on a 
vehicle he used as part-exchange towards  a new financial agreement. He wants it to clear  
that balance and pay compensation.
background
Mr S is represented in this complaint by a family  member, Mrs S. But for ease of reading  Ill 
mostly refer to him.
Mr S tells us that in May 2018 he went to WDG and negotiated a deal which involved the 
part-exchange of his existing vehicle,  which Ill refer to as vehicle A. He says he acquired  a 
replacement vehicle, which Ill call vehicle B, using some of the proceeds from vehicle A as 
a deposit. Mr S states that WDG did a HPI check and advised him there was no outstanding 
finance on vehicle  A. A couple  of months  later he says he noticed he was still paying  for 
finance agreements  in respect of both vehicles. Upon making  enquiries  with the supplier of 
finance for both the agreements, a company Ill call V, he says he was told that there was 
still outstanding  finance on vehicle A and that this was being  collected via monthly direct 
debits. Mr S states he was later informed that an error had been made and that the finance 
agreement for vehicle A had listed an incorrect registration number. And this had led to it not 
being identified  as being subject to outstanding finance.
WDG told us it hadnt made any mistakes. It said it had performed an HPI check  on vehicle 
A and this had shown  it to be free from finance. It had gone ahead with arranging the new 
finance agreement  on vehicle B and used part of the proceeds of vehicle A as a deposit. 
With the balance  being refunded to Mr S.
Our investigator issued  two views. In the first of which she recommended that the complaint  
should be upheld.  But following further  information being provided by WDG  she changed her 
opinion. She thought  that Mr S knew that there was outstanding finance on vehicle  A when  
he used it in a part-exchange deal to acquire vehicle B. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this outcome and said he was having  to pay for a mistake by WDG  
or V. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S would be upset and concerned to learn that he was paying  for 
two finance agreements if he thought the first one had been  settled.
I should emphasise at the outset that whilst  my findings include reference  to another  
business, the provider of finance V, this complaint is brought  against WDG.  Its only the 
actions of WDG  that Im directly  considering  in this decision.
In summary,  Mr S complaint is that he was misled by WDG  into believing that the finance on 
vehicle A had been fully repaid. And that he was able to use the proceeds towards  partly  
financing vehicle B. Hes now found  out that there was over £8,000 still to be repaid in 
respect of vehicle A. And V has required him to pay this, which he says he cant  afford.
Ref: DRN30972562Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I have the advantage of being  able to look back at whats happened. And in that respect its 
often easier to see where mistakes have occurred than it wouldve been for the parties at the 
time. I can see that the one of the principal causes of the present  circumstances  appears  to 
be a typing error on the finance agreement relating to vehicle A.
In July 2015, Mr S acquired vehicle A  also from WDG and using finance  provided by V. 
The finance  agreement was a hire purchase  agreement. And this type of agreement  means  
that the vehicle wouldnt  have become the property of Mr S until hed repaid the full amount 
of the agreement including the purchase price  and interest.
The printed  finance agreement records the registration details as ending  in the letters  OV 
when in fact it should  have recorded OU. Its not in dispute that vehicle A when acquired by 
Mr S was correctly identified and registered as OU. The sales invoice for vehicle B also 
identifies that it was vehicle  A (OU) that was used in part-exchange.  
Unfortunately, and probably  as a result of the input error which  led to the mistake on the 
printed agreement, it seems that V failed to register its interest  in vehicle A (OU).  Whether it 
registered it against the incorrect registration OV, Im not sure. But as it doesnt affect my 
decision its not something I need  explore. Its not surprising that when WDG  came  to do the 
finance check in May 2018 it failed to identify  any outstanding finance  on vehicle A (OU).
Ive considered whether WDG made  any material error when it did the HPI check and 
advised Mr S that there was no outstanding finance on vehicle A. Ive reached the 
conclusion that it didnt. Ill explain why.
When Mr S presented vehicle A as a potentially part-exchange item for vehicle B, WDG  
carried out the HPI check for the vehicle registered OU.  This was correct. And WDG was 
entitled to rely on the findings  revealed  by the HPI check.
An HPI check can only reveal the information that has been  recorded  against a vehicle. 
Where the vehicle owner (V) fails to correctly register an interest  in the vehicle its not the 
fault of WDG that such an interest is not disclosed. Its not fair and reasonable to find that 
WDG should be held liable for the consequences  of a typing error some  three  years  earlier  
on a document  it didnt  prepare. Particularly as Mr S also didnt notice the error  at the time. 
And as it (WDG) was not involved in the subsequent administration of the finance  agreement 
it wouldnt have any need to know of the payment  history until the need  for the HPI check 
arose.
Ref: DRN30972563When it advised Mr S that there was no outstanding finance on vehicle A, I find it implausible  
that Mr S couldve believed this to be a true reflection of the situation.  If he did, I can only put 
it down to wishful thinking. Theres information  to show that Mr S made enquires of V in 
November 2017  regarding a settlement balance which at the time was over £8,300. As 
monthly instalments  for vehicle A were only around £215 per month  with a final balloon 
payment of over £4,900, Mr S could hardly have  thought that six months later the finance 
would be cleared without him having made a significant lump  sum payment in the meantime. 
Its further the case that the used vehicle  order  form for vehicle B, which records  the details 
of the part-exchange  vehicle, states clearly  that no financial settlement was made in respect 
of vehicle A. Mr S appears to have  signed this document over a week before vehicle B has 
handed over. So hed have had ample  time to see that nothing further had been paid in 
settlement of the finance agreement on vehicle A.
Its also the case that Mr S signed  documents to say the vehicle (A), was free of any 
financial lien or any other encumbrance whether financial or otherwise. Which in plain 
language means he was confirming he wasnt aware  of any outstanding finance  owed on the 
vehicle. Im not finding that Mr S did so with any intention to mislead, rather I suspect that  
like many others  he didnt read what he was signing before doing so.
In summary,  I dont find that WSG has made any material error in the way it dealt with Mr S 
in the circumstances that surrounded his acquiring vehicle B and part-exchanging vehicle A. 
It carried out an appropriate HPI check and was entitled to rely on the result of that check. 
And also the declarations made  by Mr S that there  was no outstanding financial obligation 
remaining on vehicle A.
I dont accept that Mr S was misled about  his true remaining liability in relation to the finance  
agreement regarding vehicle A. I find he knew, or ought reasonably  to have known, that he 
still owed a substantial  amount on this agreement.  And that he was required to settle this 
amount before becoming entitled  to sell the vehicle. 
Im aware my decision  will come as a disappointment to Mr S but for the reasons given Im 
not upholding this complaint.
Although it has no part in my decision which as Ive explained is only about WDG, if Mr S is 
in financial difficulty,  he may wish to approach V and explain his situation.  He may also seek  
to enquire as to whether the second  loan for vehicle B was affordable. Although  the 
registration number  was incorrect, presumably the details of the finance agreement  itself 
wouldve shown on a credit check.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3097256