K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about mortgage advice he was given in 2007.  Legal  & General Partnership 
Services Limited is responsible for that advice.
background
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 29 September 2018. In that 
decision I explained why I thought  we should  uphold the complaint, and what  compensation I 
thought would be fair.
Legal & General said it had concerns about  my provisional decision.  It said,  in summary,  
that:
There is additional evidence that Mr S ought  reasonably to have been  aware  of a 
cause for complaint  more than three years before  he complained.
It believed my finding was based on an absence of advice about a repayment  
vehicle, despite  my acknowledging  that the complaint was not about investment 
advice.
It says I indicated that because Mr S could have afforded a repayment  mortgage the 
interest-only mortgage was unsuitable  for him.
Mr Ss representative commented on the points made by Legal & General but, in general 
terms, it agreed with my decision.  It clarified  that Mr S was intending to repay his UK 
mortgage by raising  money on the overseas property once it was finished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Ive looked again at the question of jurisdiction. 
The additional evidence  Legal & General  refers  to is an email from Mr Ss representative  
which confirms that Mr S expected the overseas property to be finished within  two years,  
and that he would then be able to repay  his UK mortgage. Legal & General says when that 
didnt happen  Mr S should reasonably have known he had cause  for complaint about the 
mortgage advice.
Ive considered this carefully but I think its the same point that Legal & General  made before 
I reached my provisional and then final decision on jurisdiction. In those decisions I accepted 
that Mr S had been expecting the development to be completed in around  two years.  But I 
didnt think that necessarily meant he became  aware of a cause for complaint simply 
because that hadnt happened. 
I havent changed my mind. Its not unusual for construction projects to overrun and I think  
Mr S had been reassured by the developer that things  were progressing, albeit later than 
expected.
Ref: DRN30830882I think that as long as Mr S thought  the development was proceeding he wouldnt necessarily 
have been overly concerned by the failure to complete  on schedule, particularly while the 
mortgage was being paid by the developer as agreed.  
Im not persuaded that Mr S became aware or ought  reasonably to have become aware he 
had cause for complain  until the developer stopped  paying the mortgage.  That was the end 
of 2012 and Mr S complained to Legal  & General  in April 2015.  So his complaint is in time.
Ive next looked at the points Legal  & General has made about my provisional decision of 
29 September 2018.
Legal & General says my finding that the lack of a realistic repayment plan made the 
interest-only mortgage unsuitable  for Mr S is inconsistent with my acknowledging that the 
complaint isnt about investment advice.
I dont agree. Theres a difference  between  investment advice and ensuring a mortgage is 
suitable.
In this case the adviser was required to recommend a mortgage suitable for Mr Ss 
circumstances. Under  the regulations that applied at the time a key consideration was how 
the mortgage would be repaid. 
It wasnt enough, in my view, simply to advise Mr S that he needed to have a suitable  
repayment plan in place. As set out in MCOB 4.7.2R the adviser  had to have reasonable  
grounds to conclude  that Mr S could  afford  the mortgage and that it was suitable for him. 
That included considering how hed repay it.
If Mr S was relying on the overseas property to repay the mortgage, and Legal & General  
seems to accept that was the case, it was a risky strategy.  The key concerns were set out by 
my colleague in his decision  of 5 November 2015.
Briefly, Mr S was paying only a 30% deposit  for an off-plan  overseas  property.  He was 
borrowing money to do that. That part of the mortgage would be paid by the developer until 
completion. But Mr S would then need  to find the 70% balance. The only realistic  way to do 
that would  be to raise  the money  on the overseas property, or sell it. He would be relying  on 
a number of things, including:
That the overseas  property  would be built without material  cost overruns.
That the overseas  property  would not have dropped  in value.
That the value  of the pound against the US dollar would  not drop markedly.
That he would be approved for a mortgage for the remainder of the finance.
In a nutshell, as Legal  & General has itself said, Mr Ss position was entirely  dependent on 
the overseas investment succeeding.
Looking at Mr Ss circumstances I dont think there can be any doubt that a strategy of 
relying on the overseas investment to repay the UK mortgage was too risky. If it went wrong  
Mr S faced the strong  possibility that he wouldnt be able to repay his mortgage at the end of 
the term. He could lose his house at age 70.
So I dont  think the mortgage recommended to Mr S was suitable for him. It wasnt  
appropriate for his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN30830883Of course I accept that the adviser  was only recommending a suitable mortgage, not 
advising on the investment. The adviser  wasnt involved in the sale of the overseas property.
But the salesperson referred  Mr S to the adviser specifically for advice on raising  money for 
the investment.  So, as I said in my provisional  decision, Im persuaded that the adviser knew  
why Mr S wanted the money and knew how the deal was supposed to work. He will have 
known how Mr S was intending  to repay  the mortgage.
In those circumstances I dont think the adviser fulfilled his obligation to have reasonable 
grounds to conclude  that Mr S could  afford  the mortgage and that it was suitable for him.
Having reached  that conclusion  I next have to decide  what  Mr S would have done differently 
if he hadnt received  unsuitable advice. 
Here I think Legal & General may have misunderstood something from my provisional  
decision. 
Legal & General seems  to think I said that because Mr S could have afforded a repayment 
mortgage an interest only mortgage  was unsuitable  for him. That wasnt what I meant and 
Im sorry  if I wasnt clear.
For the reasons  Ive already given  I think the interest-only mortgage was unsuitable. 
Whether or not Mr S could have  afforded a repayment mortgage  doesnt affect that 
conclusion.
Having decided the interest-only  mortgage  was unsuitable I now have to decide how Legal  & 
General can put things  right. 
Where unsuitable  advice has been given  our usual approach is to try to put the consumer  as 
nearly as possible  in the position theyd be in but for that unsuitable  advice.
In this case that meant considering if Mr S would have gone ahead  with a mortgage  at all, or 
whether hed have  taken  a different sort of mortgage.
As I said in my provisional decision Mr S wanted to invest. I think hed already made the 
decision that hed go ahead with the investment  if he could raise  the money. 
Mr S could raise the money. He could  afford  a repayment mortgage. He was familiar with 
that type of mortgage as he had one already.
So I think its more likely  than not that if Mr S hadnt received unsuitable advice hed have 
taken out a repayment mortgage.
In my provisional decision I said I thought the reason  Mr S had taken the interest-only 
mortgage, and the reason the adviser  had recommended it, was because  the developer had 
offered to pay the interest on the loan until the development was complete. I thought that 
would have been a significant  incentive.
Legal & General says that if I accept that then its clear that even if the adviser  had 
recommended a repayment mortgage  Mr S wouldnt have acted on that advice and would 
have gone ahead with the interest-only mortgage regardless. It says there would  have been  
Ref: DRN30830884little incentive  for him to incur  the additional  costs of a repayment  mortgage in circumstance 
where he was convinced the investment would  succeed.
I can see why Legal & General makes  this point. But I dont agree in this case.  Mr S wasnt 
experienced in financial  matters. Hed not taken a risk with his mortgage before. He had a 
repayment mortgage when he met the adviser.  In these circumstances I dont think its likely 
that Mr S would have  ignored advice given to him by the mortgage adviser. 
In any event I now understand (although  I wasnt aware of this when I reached my 
provisional decision) that the developer would have met the mortgage payments on a 
repayment mortgage, not just an interest-only  mortgage (the costs  being recovered when the 
property was competed). So taking a repayment  mortgage wouldnt have meant  Mr S 
incurring extra costs  at the outset.
For all these reasons, and whilst Ive considered carefully everything Legal & General  has 
said, I still think that its more likely  than not that if Mr S had not been given unsuitable 
advice he would have  taken out a repayment  mortgage instead of an interest-only mortgage.
So I think its fair to award redress that puts Mr S as nearly as possible in the position he 
would have been in if that had happened.
putting things  right
I think this will be fairly  achieved  if Legal & General  pays Mr S the difference  between the 
additional amount he borrowed (the new mortgage less the existing mortgage) and the 
balance this proportion  of the mortgage  would now be if it had been  arranged on a 
repayment basis at the outset.
That would still leave  Mr S with a capital balance  in relation to the original mortgage. But 
although Mr S would have paid down  part of the original mortgage if hed not switched  hed 
have had to make higher payments to do so. 
So I think this proposed redress is fair. I understand Mr S agrees.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Legal & General Partnership  Services Limited must pay 
compensation to Mr S as set out above. 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited must pay the money within 28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.  
If Legal  & General  Partnership Services Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs  to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has 
taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Ref: DRN30830885Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30830886provisional decision
complaint
Mr S complains about mortgage advice he was given  in 2007. Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited is responsible for that advice.
background
In 2007 Mr S responded to an advertisement for an overseas property development. He was visited 
by a salesman who persuaded him to invest. Mr S didnt  have the money to do this so the salesman  
put him in touch with an appointed representative of Legal & General for mortgage advice. 
Mr S was fifty years old and a self-employed carpenter. He had a three-bedroom house estimated to 
be worth £180,000. He had an existing mortgage of around £50,000 on a repayment basis.
The appointed  representative advised  Mr S to take out an interest-only  mortgage of just over 
£160,000. The mortgage  application said the money was to purchase  other property. It said the 
mortgage would be repaid by sale of property  in the future.
Mr S used the extra money to pay a deposit on the overseas development. It was never built and Mr 
S lost his money.
Mr Ss representative complained to Legal  & General  in 2015. It said the mortgage was unsuitable 
because Mr S had no way of repaying it at the end of the term. It then brought  the complaint here. 
One of my colleagues  issued a decision on 5 November  2015.  His provisional conclusions were  that 
the complaint should be upheld.  
Legal & General  didnt  agree. And it said that, in any event, the complaint had been brought too late. I 
looked at that. In my decision of 7 November 2017 I explained why I thought  this was a complaint we 
could look at.
Ive now considered afresh the merits of the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive read all the comments and arguments Legal & General has made. I understand the points it 
makes and I understand why it makes  them.  But in this particular case  Im not currently persuaded  
that the mortgage  was suitable. Ill explain  why.
Firstly, and I agree  with Legal & General on this, its important to understand that Im not considering 
the investment  advice  here, only the mortgage advice. It looks as if Mr S had already made  the 
decision to invest when he was put in touch  with the appointed representative. Hed put down  a 
holding deposit  and hed been persuaded this was a good investment  with 100% finance 
guaranteed. In other words I think it likely that when Mr S met the mortgage adviser it was on the 
basis that hed go ahead with the investment  if he could raise the money.
It doesnt  seem as if the mortgage adviser was involved  in the sale of the property.  But I think  its 
likely, given  the referral, that he would have known about it and how it was supposed to work. I think 
he would have known  what Mr S wanted the money for. After all, thats why the referral  was made.
Ref: DRN30830887Mr S already had a mortgage. Legal & Generals response to the complaint,  and our earlier decision, 
referred to that mortgage  as being on an interest-only  basis. Ive seen Mr Ss mortgage statements  
and Im satisfied that, in fact, it was a repayment  mortgage. 
The appointed  representative advised  Mr S to take out a new interest-only mortgage to replace his 
original mortgage and to provide the extra money he wanted.
Under the rules that applied  at the time the adviser  had to think  Mr S could  afford  the mortgage,  that it 
was appropriate for his circumstances and needs, and that it was the most suitable  the business had 
available to it. That included considering how Mr S would repay  the mortgage.
The interest-only mortgage  was affordable on a monthly basis. Indeed,  Mr Ss representative says Mr 
S could have afforded a repayment mortgage and that is what he should have been advised to take 
out.
On the figures Ive seen I think  its likely  that Mr S could  have afforded a repayment mortgage. I think 
the reason he took the interest-only mortgage was because the developer had offered  to pay the 
interest on the loan until the development  was completed. That would have been a significant  
incentive and so I can understand why the interest-only mortgage was recommended.
But I think the key issue here is whether Mr S had a feasible repayment plan in place. 
The mortgage  application noted that the loan would  be repaid  by the sale of property in the future. 
But the application also recorded that the mortgage was needed to purchase  other property. So it 
isnt clear if it was the new or the existing  property that would  be sold. 
If it was the new investment property then, for all the reasons given by my colleague in his decision of 
5 November 2015, I think that was too risky a strategy for Mr S. Although the adviser wasnt advising 
on the investment I think he would have known that Mr S was only paying a deposit for an off-plan 
property. So I think he should reasonably  have  advised  Mr S there were  risks of relying on that to 
repay the mortgage. 
Of course its possible that it was Mr Ss intention to sell his UK property. But that doesnt seem to 
have been a suitable strategy either. Mr Ss mortgage was due to run until he was 70 years old. It was 
his only property and the re-mortgage left him with little equity. 
Mr S might  have been  able to move  to a smaller property. But it seems  to me that would only have 
been feasible  if house-prices  continued to rise. That wasnt something that could be relied on. 
So I intend to uphold the complaint. Not because  the investment  failed or to compensate for Mr Ss 
investment loss, but because there was no realistic repayment plan in place  and so the mortgage was 
unsuitable for Mr Ss circumstances.
Having decided (provisionally) to uphold the complaint I now have to decide  what Mr S would  have 
done but for the unsuitable  advice.
As I said at that outset I think Mr S wanted to invest. So I think hed have gone ahead  if he could raise  
the money. His representative has said that Mr S could have afforded a repayment mortgage.  Im 
inclined to agree.  I think  a repayment mortgage would have been  viable given Mr Ss income and 
circumstances.
So I think its more likely than not that if Mr S had not been given unsuitable advice he would  have 
taken out a repayment mortgage instead of an interest-only mortgage.
So I think its fair to award redress that puts Mr S as nearly as possible in the position he would have 
been it if that had happened.
Ref: DRN30830888putting things right
My present  view is that this would be fairly  achieved if Legal & General pays Mr S the difference 
between the additional  amount he borrowed (the new mortgage less the existing mortgage) and the 
balance this proportion  of the mortgage  would now be if it had been arranged  on a repayment basis at 
the outset.
I realise that would still leave Mr S with a capital  balance in relation to the original mortgage.  But 
although Mr S would  have paid down part of the original mortgage if hed not switched  hed have had 
to make higher payments  to do so. 
So I think this proposed  redress  is fair.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and award redress as set out above.
Ref: DRN3083088