K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
When speaking to Santander over the phone Mrs T took out PPI whilst arranging a mortgage 
that started  in August  2001. The policy protected her mortgage repayments in the event  of 
unemployment. Mrs T paid a monthly amount  for the policy.  
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. Based on information Mrs T told 
us about a pre-existing medical condition  our adjudicator thought Mrs T probably wasnt 
covered for absence  from work linked to this condition. He felt that if Santander had 
explained this to Mrs T, then it was unlikely she wouldve wanted the PPI. 
And so he felt Mrs T probably wouldnt have bought the policy  if shed understood this at the 
time and that shed  lost out as shed been  paying  for it.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that any pre-existing 
medical condition  wouldve  been  discussed  and it required documentary evidence to show 
when Mrs Ts condition  was diagnosed  and how it was managed when it sold her the PPI.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently thinking about  not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs T to remember exactly  what  was discussed  when 
she took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means  that what  she says isnt enough 
on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to base  my decision on what  
I think is most likely  given  the available information and the wider circumstances.
Theres no call recording available  now. But, based on what  this service  knows  about the 
way Santander  sold PPI over the phone around  this time, Ive no reason to think  that 
Santander wouldnt have  followed its usual  sales process and explained to Mrs T that PPI 
was optional. 
In order to have  the PPI, Mrs T was required to complete a Paymentcare application form 
separately from her mortgage application.  She wouldve  had the option to choose the level of 
cover and say how much  monthly benefit  she wanted to have.  
It looks like Mrs T mustve decided she wanted  unemployment cover  after speaking  with the 
advisor. I say this because Santander  wrote to her shortly afterwards setting out details of 
the cover  shed chosen showing  that Mrs T was covered  including  what  it would cost. 
Mrs Ts mortgage  was a major financial commitment, and her home wouldve been at risk if 
her mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mrs T mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have at the time. 
Ref: DRN37289152On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mrs T was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered her. And PPI that provided her with protection  in the event she became 
unemployed was added to Mrs Ts account when  she chose to buy it. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs T so it needed to sell Mrs T a policy that was 
suitable for her. And it needed to sufficiently  highlight the significant details of the policy to 
Mrs T. 
The policy seems to have  been right for Mrs T based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances 
at the time. Mrs T was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve paid out a benefit for up to 
12 months if Mrs T lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  Having  PPI is more 
dependable than relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems. So the 
policy couldve provided a useful benefit  at a difficult time and I think  PPI was suitable for 
her. 
Its possible that Santander didn't explain everything as well as it shouldve done. But, I dont 
think its likely that having clearer information  about  the circumstances when the policy 
wouldnt pay out wouldve  made any difference to Mrs Ts decision to take it out. As far as 
I can see Mrs T wouldve been able to take full advantage of the protection the policy  offered 
her if she became unemployed. 
Mrs T didnt  take out cover for accident  or sickness.  This means that I dont need to consider 
the information shes told us about  having a pre-existing  medical condition because  this 
didn't affect  her being able to claim on the policy if she lost her job unexpectedly and was out 
of work. So what shes  told us about  her health isnt a reason to uphold her mis-sale 
complaint. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs T during the phone call. But the cost of 
the policy was shown in the welcome  letter sent to her and she couldve queried it then if she 
decided this wasnt something she wanted  to pay for. From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look as 
if that happened. Mrs T hasnt suggested  that she couldnt afford the monthly premiums. And 
she wouldve signed an instruction form to her bank to cover  the cost.  So it seems  she was 
happy at the time to pay for the cover  shed chosen. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs T still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if shed been  better  informed as 
the policy gave  her useful protection in her particular situation.  
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell Santander  that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. 
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN37289153Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019 .
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3728915