K821x#15complaint
Miss A and Mr H complain about  the mortgage  advice  they received from Countrywide  
Principal Services Limited. They say Countrywide  miscalculated the amount needed to repay 
their existing mortgage. As a result, they had to find more than £5,000 at short notice to 
complete on their property  sale and purchase.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision  a copy of which is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  this 
complaint and to require  Countrywide to pay Miss A and Mr H £500 by way of compensation.
I invited Miss A and Mr H and Countrywide  to let me have any further evidence or arguments 
they wanted me to consider before I made  my final decision. Despite a reminder, Miss A and 
Mr H didnt reply. Countrywide didnt say whether or not it accepted my provisional decision, 
but it had nothing to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss A and Mr H nor Countrywide  has disagreed  with my provisional decision or 
made any further arguments, I see no reason  to reach a different conclusion from the one I 
set out in that provisional decision.
my final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in more detail in my provisional decision, my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I order Countrywide Principal Services Limited to pay 
Miss A and Mr H £500 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36588682copy
complaint
Miss A and Mr H complain  about  the mortgage advice they received from Countrywide Principal  
Services Limited. They say Countrywide  miscalculated  the amount needed to repay  their existing 
mortgage. As a result, they had to find more than £5,000 at short notice to complete on their property 
sale and purchase.
background
Miss A and Mr H initially met with a broker at Countrywide in January  2018.  They  discussed selling 
their existing property  and buying a new house. They  wanted to know whether they could afford it.
Miss A and Mr H had further meetings and phone conversations with the broker in the months that 
followed. They say they discussed how much  it would cost to repay  their existing mortgage, but the 
broker got the amount  wrong.  When they queried the figure, they say the broker  told them it was 
higher than expected because their lender would  have included an early  repayment charge (ERC). 
But they wouldnt have  to pay that because  they were  moving house after their existing fixed-rate 
mortgage ended, so the ERC wouldnt apply. 
The difference  turned  out not to be down  to an ERC,  and Miss A and Mr H say they were left 
unexpectedly having to find more than £5,000 just before completion. They felt they had to go ahead  
as they would  lose money  theyd paid on fees if they pulled out. They borrowed the money from 
family, which theyre having to pay back. They  complained  to Countrywide.
Countrywide said it had to rely on the information Miss A and Mr H gave it about  their mortgage 
balance; it wasnt the lender  so it couldnt know the exact amount they owed. It felt it wasnt 
responsible for the shortfall.  
Our investigator agreed with Countrywide.  She also said she thought Miss A and Mr H could have 
pulled out of the transaction if they felt they couldnt  afford the new house.  
Miss A and Mr H didnt accept that conclusion  and asked for it to be reviewed. They still felt the broker 
was responsible for the extra  debt theyre now in. They  also said the broker had advised them to get a 
loan through a family member so they could pay the shortfall and still get the mortgage  which  is 
bordering on fraud.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A and Mr H have said they wouldnt have gone through with the sale and purchase if theyd 
known at the start how much  it would  cost them. Countrywide was responsible  for giving them 
suitable advice. But it wasnt Miss As and Mr Hs mortgage lender, so it wouldnt necessarily have 
known exactly what they owed on their existing mortgage  or the total cost of the transaction. It is 
right to say it had to rely on the information Miss A and Mr H gave it.
Miss A and Mr H had taken  out their existing mortgage through Countrywide  so the broker had 
some information about that when they approached it in January 2018. It follows that this is how the 
broker could give them a rough figure in terms of what they owed  at their first meeting.
This was never going  to be precise, though, and I dont think  the broker told Miss A and Mr H it was, 
given that they then asked  their mortgage lender for their outstanding  balance.  They have explained 
that they did that because the broker asked them to. They have provided  a copy of a text message 
they sent to the broker a few days after their initial meeting with it, saying they had checked with their 
lender and found they owed  £113,867.52, and they were concerned this might cause a problem.
Ref: DRN36588683The text message shows  Miss A and Mr H gave the broker an exact figure. It wasnt an estimate,  or 
rounded up or down.  So I think  the broker knew  the amount needed to repay  the mortgage at that 
point. 
A fact find was carried out around  two weeks  later. That said the outstanding mortgage balance was 
£110,000, and the broker made its recommendation  on that basis. The broker has told us the 
consultant who advised Miss A and Mr H has since left Countrywide, and it doesnt know how he got 
to that figure.
Miss A and Mr H had intended to complete on their new property  purchase the day after the fixed  rate 
on their existing  mortgage ended  so an ERC  wouldnt  be payable.  In the light of that, I can see why 
the broker  might have  thought the redemption  figure  Miss A and Mr H had provided included  an ERC. 
But this wasnt the case, and it seems  to me that the broker  made  an assumption. I find nothing  to 
indicate that it asked Miss A and Mr H to check and let it know, for example. And I think  it ought to 
have been apparent that their eligibility for the 90% loan-to-value  mortgage the broker recommended  
they apply for would be affected if it turned  out they needed to borrow more  money.
The broker was the expert here, and it was responsible for giving Miss A and Mr H suitable  advice. It 
should have taken reasonable  steps  to obtain all the information from Miss A and Mr H that was likely 
to be relevant to that advice.  I think this included  the amount they owed on their existing mortgage.  
The information they gave  it included a redemption figure of £113,867.52; it is not reflected in the fact 
find, and the broker cant explain why. While Miss A and Mr H would be reducing the mortgage 
balance by around £100  a month through their usual  payments, that falls some way short of 
accounting for the discrepancy.
In the circumstances,  I think the broker got things wrong here and failed to take account  of the 
information Miss A and Mr H had given it. I now have to decide what the broker should do to put 
things right. Miss A and Mr H found out through their solicitor at the end of March that there would be 
a shortfall. They were expecting to exchange contracts imminently at that point, so I can see why they 
were very worried. The broker has said that, if Miss A and Mr H had borrowed any more money  on 
their new mortgage, their loan-to-value ratio would have gone above  90%. That would have meant a 
less favourable interest rate, and their monthly mortgage payments would have been higher. The 
broker has said they discussed  alternatives, including  raising the money  they needed  through  a gift 
from family, or pulling  out of the deal.
As things turned out, contracts  werent exchanged until more than a month after Miss A and Mr H 
found there would be a shortfall.  They chose to go ahead rather than lose the fees they paid. That 
was their decision to make. They knew the costs when  they did so, and it would not be possible now 
to unwind the transaction. I must also bear in mind that they bought a property  worth more  than their 
previous one  so they have something of value  which  they would  not otherwise  have had.
In all the circumstances, while I know this isnt the outcome Miss A and Mr H wanted,  I dont consider 
the fair outcome is for me to require the broker to make good the shortfall and pay them the extra  
money they had to borrow. I do, however, think they should fairly receive some compensation  to 
reflect the stress and worry they were caused as a result  of being put in such  a difficult  position  at 
short notice, and of having to borrow money from family unexpectedly.  I assess a fair award  at £500.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further evidence  or arguments  I receive  from Miss A and Mr H or Countrywide by 10 
December 2018, my provisional decision is to uphold  this complaint and to require Countrywide  to pay 
Miss A and Mr H £500 compensation.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3658868