K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about issues hes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited.
background
In December 2017 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS.
Within 2 weeks of purchase Mr S noticed the windows  kept misting  up and a damp smell. He 
took the car to his local BMW garage who identified  a major water  leak.
Mr S contacted the supplying dealer and told it about the problem. There  was a delay before 
he could book the car in with them. Once  the supplying dealer  had looked  at the car and 
identified the extent of the problem, Mr S contacted BMWFS and asked to reject  the car.
BMWFS said that because  Mr S had contacted them after 30 days  it should be given the 
opportunity to repair the fault.
The supplying dealer identified the cause of the leak as a poorly fitting windscreen which had 
been fitted prior to the point of supply in August 2017. It carried  out repairs and the car was 
returned to Mr S.
Since getting the car back Mr S says it had developed several  different rattling noises and 
the stagnant water smell has returned.  He wants to reject the car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Mr S had reported the fault within the first 30 
days and she was satisfied the fault had been present at the point of supply. She said Mr S 
should be allowed  to reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree. It acknowledged that Mr S had reported  the fault within 30 days but 
said the request  to reject was made after 30 days and that Mr S had accepted a repair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because BMWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement  theres an implied term 
that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid.
Mr S and BMWFS  dont  appear to disagree that the car had a fault at the point of supply. 
Mr S says he made it clear  that he wanted to reject the car within  30 days. BMWFS  accepts 
that Mr S reported the fault within 30 days but says he subsequently  accepted  a repair,
The relevant  law says that a consumer has the right to reject an unsatisfactory car within  30 
days. After 30 days the business must  be given  one opportunity to repair  the car.
Ref: DRN34500132In this case, Mr S reported the fault within 30 days and asked the supplying dealer  to look at 
the problem. The dealer  didnt have a courtesy car available for Mr S at the time so there 
was a delay before the car was inspected. It was at this point that the full extent of the 
problem became clear  and Mr S asked to reject  the car.
Although the request to reject was made just outside the 30 day period I dont think  its fair to 
penalise Mr S for this. If the supplying dealer had inspected the car when Mr S asked it to, 
the extent of the problem would have been  apparent  much  sooner and Mr S would have 
asked to reject the car within the 30 days.
Moreover, Im not persuaded that the repair has been successful. Mr S says hes still 
experiencing issues with a damp smell which suggests to me that the problem hasnt been 
fixed.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think  the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I think Mr S should be treated as having  rejected 
the car within 30 days. I also think the repair attempt has been  unsuccessful.  On both 
analyses, Mr S should be allowed to reject  the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited 
should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mr S.
Refund the deposit in full together with 8% simple  interest  per annum from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement
Remove all references to the agreement from Mr Ss credit  file
Pay £200 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3450013