K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Mrs W has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs W took out a credit  card in 1996.  Due to the time thats passed, Lloyds isnt sure when, 
where or how the policy was sold. So it assumed that PPI was sold at the same  time that 
Mrs W applied  for her credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain  why.
First, Lloyds is unsure as to when  or how the PPI was sold.  Mrs W doesnt recall  either.  But 
Im not surprised by this as it was a long time ago. Lloyds arent obliged to keep records 
indefinitely and I dont  expect Mrs W to remember when PPI was added due to the time that 
has passed. The purchase of insurance isnt a typically memorable experience and 
memories can and do fade over time.
But Lloyds says that it has statements from 2000  and these show that PPI was on Mrs Ws 
account. So it seems  likely  to me that PPI was already  in place. 
Lloyds has assumed that the PPI was added when the card was applied  for. And this could 
well have been what happened,  but it isnt definite,  its only an assumption.  Lloyds has 
provided a sample  application form from around  1996. And this shows  that Mrs W, if the 
policy was taken then,  would have most likely  had to tick a box if she wanted  PPI. 
But, as mentioned above, the PPI could have been sold at any point between  1996 and 
2000. If this was the case, I cant safely conclude that Mrs W wasnt given an option to take 
out the PPI. And this is because it would  be unfair  for me to assume something went wrong  
when I have no evidence  that it did. 
So, on balance, and given  the limited information  as to when and how this PPI policy was 
sold, I cant fairly say that Lloyds didnt make Mrs W aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI. If the PPI was added  when Mrs W applied for the card,  which I think is the 
most likely scenario, she would have  been aware  that she had a choice about buying  PPI.
Ref: DRN38568302Because Lloyds  isnt sure how the policy was sold, and to be fair to Mrs W, its decided  that 
it likely  provided a personal recommendation to her to buy the policy. This placed more  
responsibility on Lloyds  and it meant it had to make sure it was right for Mrs W.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time, I think the PPI seems to 
have been suitable for her. I say this because whilst Mrs W received some sick pay from her 
employer, the PPI would have paid out at the same time as she received any sick pay and 
for longer. It would have covered more than her minimum  repayments for up to 12 months 
per claim if she was unable to work or if she lost her job. All things considered, I think the 
policy could have been useful to her.
And if Lloyds  didnt provide a personal recommendation to Mrs W, then it had to provide 
Mrs W with clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the PPI so that Mrs W could 
make up her mind as to whether she felt the policy would have been  useful  to her.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been, like explaining the cost of the policy. Lloyds hasnt been able to confirm  the exact 
cost of the policy. But due to the amount of time thats passed since the sale its not 
surprising Lloyds doesnt have this information.  Lloyds say the cost of the policy would  have 
been between  59p and 79p per £100 of the outstanding monthly balance. This is in line with 
what I know about how Lloyds priced  other policies at around  the same  time.
Ive carefully thought  about the cost of the policy and even  looking  at the higher price of 79p 
and taking into account Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time, I still think  she would have 
bought it. I say this because  as I explained above I still think  the policy would have been 
useful if Mrs W was out of work  for a lengthy  period.
Mrs W also doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. So I dont think better information  about  this wouldve stopped her buying the policy.
All things  considered and based on the available information I have regarding the sale and 
Mrs Ws circumstances, I dont think this PPI policy  was mis-sold.
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws representatives comments. But, for the reasons given 
above, these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856830