K822xcomplaint
Miss H complains about the advice she received from Tilney  Financial Planning Limited
(Tilney). She is concerned that there  were a number of errors in the 2016 financial planning
report and that that led to incorrect  advice  being  provided. She has also had to pay over
£7,000 for exceeding her annual allowance and she believes this happened as a result of
her being  misadvised. In addition, she is unhappy with aspects of the service she received
from Tilney.
background 
On 23 September  2016, Miss H emailed Tilney  detailing her assets ahead of their meeting,
she provided details  of her buy-to-let  property holdings,  her share in these and the rental
income generated.
Tilney prepared an at retirement  options  report on 22 November 2016, this noted:
Your Lifetime Financial Plan aims  to give you a better understanding of your
finances, to help you to plan a more secure  and successful  financial future.
The plan does  not provide  specific recommendations. It sets out your current
financial position In the context of your lifetime goals  and highlights  any issues  that
may prevent you from achieving these.
And
We should  revisit your Lifetime  Financial  Plan annually, to assess  whether you are
on track to realise your goals and also to ensure that you, and your family, are well
placed financially  should you or your partner die prematurely.
Miss Hs objectives were recorded  as being  to; understand  her retirement options, to
determine when  she could retire and to achieve  a target net income of retirement of £2,000 -
£3,000 per month. The report  lists Miss Hs income  and assets, it then sets out how these
could be used to achieve Miss Hs objectives and provide for her in retirement. The first
scenario is based  on everything going  to plan but there are also scenarios which account for
different things going wrong. For example, one is based on Miss Hs invested  assets
dropping by 20% and another assumes  that she receives no rental income from the buy-to-
let properties.  The first shows all of Miss Hs objectives being met comfortably  throughout
her life. Without rental income the analysis shows that her objectives could still be met but
that in her mid-nineties, if she still requires a similar  income, she may need  to sell one of the
buy-to-let properties.
In conclusion the report finds:
What the above  shows is that, based  on the various  assumptions utilised in the
preparation of the charts, it would be possible for you to retire with immediate effect
drawing a net income of £36,000pa and that your various investment and pension
assets are able to support your standard of living for the rest of your life. It should be
assumed that over the coming 30+ years there will be void periods for some (or all) 
of the rental properties for some of the time and also that there will be falls in
investment values. However  your overall  wealth is such that you should  be able to
ride out these "bumps in the road"  and enjoy  a long and happy  retirement.
Ref: DRN35173342What none of the previous charts includes is the values of the properties - so the
chart below is a rehearsal  of the chart on page  12 that assumes  no rental  income is
available to assist  - but includes the values of the rental properties (but not your Main
Residence).
Under the other assumptions section, it set out:
Your realisable assets include  only investments and deposit accounts. We have
excluded your main residence  and the value within Barrys Transact  Personal
Pension.
We have run the scenarios to your age 95. Although this is longer than the average
current life expectancy, it helps to build  a degree  of caution into your plan.
We can review  all these assumptions when we come to determine the best course of
action for you, as they can have a great  impact  on the outcome.
Miss H did not retire at that point. Later, Miss H approached Tilney for advice  on making a
pension contribution.
On 3 April 2018,  Tilney issued its recommendation, this said:
Following our recent discussions regarding  your surplus cash position I am pleased
to provide you with my recommendation for maximising your pension  contributions
for the current 2017/2018 tax year within your available Annual Allowance.
And
During our discussions and e-mail conversations along with the information provided
by your Accountant, your overall taxable profit share for the 2017/2018  tax year will
be £158,000 and you are in receipt  of additional  income through  other  sources of
£1,000 gross, making a total gross income of £159,000.
You have  also confirmed that along with our advice in the advice report dated
27th March 2017, you have reduced  your ongoing  monthly pension  contributions  to
your [name of provider]  pension plan to £666.66  net (£833.32 gross) which means
you will have  contributed  £7,999.92 net (£9,999.84 gross) within the current  tax
year.
And
As mentioned throughout this, we are only providing advice in regards to the
maximum available pension contribution you can make within  the current 2017/2018
tax year and are not providing any advice in regards to the investment of this pension
contribution.
The report  went on to set out how the annual  allowance  operates  in relation  to an individuals
income and said:
Therefore based  on a gross income from all sources of £159,000 the maximum
gross pension contribution you can make  in this tax year,  without exceeding the
annual allowance  is £35,000 gross (£28,400 net).
Ref: DRN35173343Although through the above calculation you could contribute  a maximum £35,500
gross into your pension this tax year, you have already  made monthly contributions
of £833.33 gross (£10,000 gross per annum) and as such the single gross top up you
can make  into your pension this tax year is £25,500 (£20,400 net).
Around this time, it appears Miss H and Tilney were looking  to update  her Lifetime  Financial
Plan. Miss H told her adviser that she was going to review her report ahead  of them updating
it.
On 13 July 2018, Miss H emailed her adviser confirming that there were a number of
changes and unknowns  in her circumstances and suggested potentially delaying  updating
the report until things  settled. The adviser confirmed  that it would be best to wait until the
picture was clear.
Miss H emailed her adviser  on 20 July 2018,  she had reviewed her retirement options report
and noticed a few mistakes, in particular:
There was reference made to someone  elses pension.
The total interest paid on all four buy-to-let properties is refenced but she only paid 
interest on two of the four properties.
The full value of all four buy-to-let properties were included  in her assets  but she only 
owned 100%  of one of the properties, she had 1% share of two of the properties and 
50% of the final one.
The report does not mention her then business  assets of £550,000.
The adviser responded to her queries, he confirmed:
The reference to someone elses pension was a typing error and would be removed 
but did not factor in the advice.
The interest would be recalculated.
The error in respect of property ownership  was corrected.
The business funds  were included but were incorporated as an income not as an 
asset on the basis that it had been  discussed  that it would be tax efficient to use 
these funds over consecutive years until the funds are fully transferred to personal 
holdings. But he confirmed this could be included as an asset.
After Miss H had followed Tilneys advice and made  the maximum contribution  it had
recommended. The income the annual allowance/pension contribution  advice was based on
transpired to be significantly lower than Miss Hs actual income in the relevant tax year.
Miss Hs accountant estimated that:
Your taxable profit  will be slightly higher than the £190115 in the accounts. I would
suggest that you give your IFA a figure  of £194000 to work on at present. We will
have the exact  figure when we have  prepared your tax return.
Miss Hs existing adviser appears  to have left Tilney  quite abruptly.  Another adviser took
over, she recommended  waiting until Miss H was certain of her income  (after  her tax return
had been filed) to decide  how best proceed  in respect of her pension  contributions.  At this
point Miss H questioned  why she had previously not been  advised to wait until she was
certain about her income to decide  the level of contribution she should  make into her
pension and if she had been misadvised by the previous adviser.
Ref: DRN35173344Shortly after this, the relationship between  Miss H and the new adviser appears to have
deteriorated swiftly. Miss H raised  concerns about  how the adviser handled  the handover
and the comments  she made.
Tilney accepted that what had happened  was not ideal and arranged  for the advisers
manager to take over and provide advice.
Miss H raised a complaint with Tilney.  She said:
Errors in the 2016  report made her question the advice provided.
The pension charge she incurred due to exceeding  her annual allowance  of over 
£7,000 was clearly  a financial loss. The sum does remain  invested  in her pension,  
but she did not receive tax relief and the monies  will be taxed  when she draws these 
from the pension,  so it was not tax efficient and she has had to pay HMRC  over 
£7,000. Having paid to receive  advice in relation to this, what she received was 
clearly poor advice.
Tilneys offer of £500 was less than she paid for the advice complained about.
The service provided during the period after her adviser left Tilney was not 
acceptable.
Originally Tilney upheld Miss Hs in part and offered her £500 compensation for level of
service provided. Then on 5 March 2019, it issued  a further final response  letter,  it did not
uphold her complaint,  briefly, it said:
Whilst it would have  been possible to limit her contributions to £10,000   the lowest  
an individuals annual allowance can be reduced to  in the 2017-2018 tax year 
(which had already  been used up by way of her regular contributions) and use any 
unused allowance  in the following year, based on the available  information, the 
advice provided  was suitable. There was no reason for the adviser doubt the 
information provided by Miss Hs accountant  particularly just two days before the end 
of the tax year.
Although it no longer  thought that her complaint should be upheld, its offer of £500 
would remain open.
There were  inaccuracies in relation to her rental  properties in the November 2016  
report but, because  the values of the properties  were not included in the cash flow 
report, this would not have impacted the recommendation. The report includes  a 
projection assuming  no rental income  and shows that Miss Hs liquid assets would 
last until age 94, with the properties still available as assets.
On the same  day Tilney  wrote to Miss H explaining  that it had come  to the decision that it
could no longer provide her with financial advice  due to the deterioration of their relationship.
Unhappy with the outcome of her complaint, Miss H referred her complaint to this service.
During our investigation Miss H confirmed that she had now retired based on Tilneys  earlier  
advice.
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Hs complaint  and concluded that Tilneys offer was
fair, he thought;  the mistakes in the 2016 report  did not impact the outcome of the advice,
the recommendation to make the maximum pension contribution  based on the income
provided by her accountant  was reasonable and whilst there were some issues with the
Ref: DRN35173345handover to a new adviser the compensation offered  was sufficient for this.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators findings, she said:
It does not make  sense that the report not have been different if it had only included  
correct information,  given the substantial  overstatement of her assets and the 
inclusion of someone elses  pension.
She was clearly misadvised in respect  of the 2018 pension contribution, she could 
have waited to make a contribution when her income had been  established  and there 
was no risk of her exceeding the annual allowance, if she had been made aware of 
this, she would have  chosen to safely make  the contribution  this way.
I sent my provisional decision to Miss H and Tilney  on 22 February 2021, explaining why I 
thought Tilneys offer was fair. My findings are attached and form part of this decision.  Tilney 
made no further submissions. Miss H disagreed with my conclusions, she said:
When the second adviser at Tilney took over the pension contribution had already 
been made and the HMRC surcharge  had already been  incurred.
Because the information from her accountant  was very last minute, she only had a 
few hours to make the contributions. 
If anyone had told her that she could wait to make the contribution, she would have 
done but that advice  was never offered  until after the event.  
Because agreement  could  not be reached, this complaint has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
I understand the pension contribution complained  about had already  been made when  the 
second adviser briefly  took over. 
I appreciate Miss H feels that Tilney failed to advise her that she could wait to make  the 
contribution and that if she had been advised of this, she would not have had to pay HMRC 
around £7,000.  I have  reconsidered everything Miss H has said about this and the 
information available and I remain of the view that Tilneys advice was not unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN35173346The objective was to provide Miss H with a recommendation for maximising her pension  
contributions for the current 2017/2018 tax year within her available annual allowance. And, 
based on the available information, there  was no reason for Tilney to think  that the 
information provided by Miss Hs accountant  was incorrect or likely to be. 
Miss H has not made any submissions in respect of any of my other findings, so these  
remain as set out in my provisional decision.  As I mentioned  above,  these are attached and 
form part of this decision, so I have not repeated these in detail here. In summary,  I found  
that:
There were  errors in the report, but these did not impact the advice. 
The cash  flow analysis  did not rely on the overstated  ownership  of the properties. 
The service provided after Miss Hs adviser left was not good, but the compensation 
Tilney offered is sufficient  to compensate her for this. 
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Miss H but I am satisfied that this is a 
fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances. 
my final decision
It is my final decision that Tilney Financial Planning Limiteds offer is fair. I direct  it to
pay to Miss H the £500 compensation  offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
MY PROVISIONAL  FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I have taken into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and codes of practice;  and what I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach my decision  on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what  I consider is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN35173347It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide if the business has done anything  wrong in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material loss or distress
and inconvenience suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties  to this complaint have provided  detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful to them  for doing so. I have  considered  these submissions  in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what  I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address  every
point raised  in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching them.
The 2016 advice report
Miss H is concerned  that the conclusions reached  in the 2016 may be unsafe because  of
some errors contained in it. Her share  in three buy-to-let properties was overstated,  so her
assets were significantly inflated, and someone elses pension  was referenced. The interest
she paid for the properties  was overstated and £550,000 from her capital  account was not
included in her assets.
Tilney has said that its conclusions  would  not have been different but for the errors
highlighted, as the properties  were  not including  in the cashflow assessment. It also
confirmed the £550,000 had been included  as an income  rather than an asset and the
reference to someone elses was a typing  error.
Looking at the report the reference to the transact pension does seem to be a typing error or
possibly had been copied in from another report by accident.  There  is no indication that this
was incorporated in Miss Hs assets  or income  streams. Also, where it is included it
expressly says:
Your realisable  assets include only investments and deposit accounts. We have
excluded your main residence and the value within Barrys Transact Personal
Pension [my emphasis].
We have  run the scenarios  to your age 95. Although this is longer than the average
current life expectancy,  it helps  to build  a degree of caution into your plan.
We can review all these assumptions when we come to determine  the best course  of
action for you, as they can have a great impact on the outcome.
Overall, I am satisfied that this did not impact the conclusions reached  in the report.
It is not entirely clear why the values of the buy-to-let properties were included  in Miss Hs
assets in full. Whilst the values  are included  in full, it is noted that Miss Hs share in all but
one of the properties is 50%,  this mirrors  what was recorded in the fact-find.  I do not know
what was discussed in the meeting. It was possible the noted share  split was based on how
Miss H described how the division  of the properties would  work in practice in the description
of her assets provided ahead of the meeting.  This indicated that the intention was for her to
pay off the mortgages on the buy-to-let properties and for her beneficial interest to be
increased to 50% on the properties she only had a 1% interest in at the time (for tax
purposes as she was a higher rate tax payer). The reports conclusions are based on Miss H
utilising part of the funds  from her capital  account to pay off the mortgages on all of the buy-to-let 
properties. Based on this, Miss Hs share in the properties would increase in line with
the description provided in her email  albeit  not to 100%. So, her assets are inflated in the
report.
The report sets out how Miss H could  utilise  her liquid  assets to support herself  in retirement,
the scenarios did not include the values  of the properties.  These  showed  that if everything went to 
plan Miss H could retire and her objectives could  comfortably be met. The report  also stress  tested 
the viability of the plan, for example, one of the scenarios was based on
Ref: DRN35173348no rental income being received. This showed that Miss H could still meet  her objectives and
maintain her lifestyle utilising her pension and investments until her mid-nineties. It also
found that she could sell one of the buy-to-let properties to fund her lifestyle at that point, if
needed. It is not in dispute that Miss H would own at least one of the buy-to-let properties in
retirement.
The conclusions reached in the report were based on these scenarios,  so I am not
persuaded that the outcome would be different if Miss Hs assets were  corrected to reflect
her actual shares in the buy-to-let properties.
The pension  contribution advice
The recorded  objective of the advice  was to recommend the maximum  pension  contribution
Miss H could make  in the relevant tax year. The income that the recommendation was based
on turned out to be significantly lower than her actual  income,  so she exceeded the annual
allowance and has had to pay HMRC over £7,000.
The income  was provided to the adviser by Miss Hs accountant just days before  the end of
the tax year. I have not been provided with any evidence that this was presented to him as
an estimate or likely  to be incorrect. So, I do not think it was unreasonable for the adviser to
rely on this information and I am not persuaded that the advice was unsuitable.
The handover process
It is clear there  were a number of issues when Miss Hs adviser left. This appears to have
happened quite suddenly and when  Miss H and the adviser were in discussions about
updating her Lifetime Financial Plan. Then there  appears to have been a delay before Miss
Hs case was picked up and the level of service provided  by the new adviser was not good. I
think this would have caused Miss H significant distress  and inconvenience,  but I think that
Tilneys offer of £500  is reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Miss H feels strongly about the issues she has raised, and that this
outcome will come as a disappointment to her  but, I am satisfied that the conclusions I
have reached  are fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN3517334