K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about the way CIS General  Insurance  Limited handled  a
claim they made under their home insurance policy.
All references in my decision  to the insurer CIS include  their agents.
background
In May 2018  Mr P made a claim to his insurer, CIS. He reported  blistering on the paint of the
skirting board by a radiator in their hall. He said when he pressed on the skirting board there
was water.  CIS arranged for a loss adjuster (LA) to attend Mr and Mrs Ps home  on 31 May
2018. Mr Ps claim was accepted.
Mr P chased  for an update in June  2018. Mr P said hed explained to the LA on 31 May 2018
that floor tiles under the hall carpet had adhesive containing asbestos. A building contractor
attended on 11 July 2018 to carry out a trace  and access  service. He said hed need to take
a sample of the tiles for asbestos testing before further work could be carried out.
Between July and September 2018  Mr P made  several calls to CIS to chase for an update
on their claim. On 6 September 2018  the building contractor  returned and identified the
source of the leak after excavating  and exposing pipes underneath  the hall concrete floor.
He left an 11 foot trench which  was partially covered by two pieces of wood. The next day
Mr P arranged for a plumber to attend  and fix the leak.  Mr P was responsible  for repairing he
leak as this wasnt covered under his policy.
On 19 September  2018 a restoration contractor attended to assess the works  required in
relation to any damp. The contractor stripped several areas of Mr and Mrs Ps wallpaper
across the hall, lounge and dining room without  asking their permission. The contractor said
CIS would cover the costs of redecorating.  He reported that there was damp which  required
drying out in the hall, lounge and dining room. The contractor said floor tiles in the lounge
and dining room would need to be tested  for asbestos  even though Mr P told him they
were identical  to the floor tiles already  tested  in the hall.
Mr P chased  CIS for updates and in October 2018  he asked for a contractor to visit his home
He didnt agree with the restoring contractors assessment. CIS told Mr and Mrs P that
alternative accommodation wouldnt be provided while  drying works would take place as
they had access  to their kitchen and bathroom.
At the end of October  2018 Mr P asked a tradesman  to carry out readings for damp. He said
the tradesman told him there was no damp.
CIS arranged for the restoring contractor to revisit  Mr and Mrs Ps home to carry out further
readings on 15 November  2018.  He reported little change in the readings from his previous
visit in September  2018. Mr P in the meantime chased the building  contractor to fill in the
trench as it was a hazard for him and his wife who is registered  blind.
The building contractor  filled in the trench on 29 November 2018. Mr P said the building
contractor took readings which showed  no damp.  Mr P said he hired  a moisture  meter
reading a few days before at his own costs  and this showed no damp in any of the areas the
restoring contractor reported.
Ref: DRN30801012Mr and Mrs P visited a hotel in December 2018  after CIS said theyd need to leave their
home while the drying works were  carried  out. Mr P continued to ask CIS to send an
independent contractor to their home  as he didnt  agree with the restoring contractors
findings
On 21 December 2018 a LA visited and reported  that the recommendations by the restoring
company werent  necessary. The LAs reported moisture readings were below the threshold
to report damp.
The LA recommended  CIS cover  the costs to redecorate Mr and Mrs Ps home in the hall,
lounge and dining room  and for the carpet in the hall to be replaced.
In January 2019 Mr P told CIS the floor tiles in the hall still hadnt  been replaced. The
building contractor told him they were  waiting for CIS to approve the works. Mr P said the
decorator wasnt available until November/December  2019.
In summary,  Mr P complained about the following:
There was a delay  of six weeks in arranging asbestos testing between May 
and July 2018.
The restoring contractor trashed their home  by tearing wallpaper. Their
recommendations were  unnecessary and in Mr Ps view made to gain profit.
The building contractor left their home  with an exposed  trench  for 12 weeks 
which was a danger to him and his wife on a daily basis. The contractor 
eventually filled in the trench  without  CISs  approval as they could see it was 
a hazard and didnt  want to leave it exposed any longer.
CIS caused further delay in approving the building  contractor works to replace 
the floor tiles in the hall following the LAs report dated 21 December 2018.  
This was done in March 2019.
Mr P believes he should have been given  detailed advice about the risk of
asbestos in the adhesive  of the tiles. He provided a specialists opinion  which
said the risk was low. Mr P feels he could have carefully removed the tiles
himself.
CIS upheld  most of Mr and Mrs Ps complaints. It accepted it had handled the claim poorly.  It
was clear that Mr P had instigated updates on the claim  throughout. CIS felt it was
reasonable for them to have relied  on the findings of the restoring company at the time.  And
it said its precautionary actions in relation to the discovery of asbestos were correct.  But it
upheld the remaining complaints Mr P made.  CIS apologised and paid a total of £500
compensation.
Mr and Mrs P asked  us to look at their complaint. Mr P didnt feel CIS had considered the
seriousness of their concerns and the acute distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator thought CIS hadnt done enough to put things right.  He thought  CIS could
have reasonably dealt with the claim in two months  but it took ten. He thought  CIS should
pay a further £300  to bring the total compensation for delay  to £800. He thought CIS should
pay £300 for the failure to promptly  fill in the trench left open  for 12 weeks.  And he thought
CIS should pay a further £100  for the inconvenience  of having their home  redecorated  in
addition to CIS covering the costs  of the redecoration.
CIS accepted the investigators findings. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree. In summary Mr P
disagreed that it would have taken two months to deal with the claim if CIS had handled it
properly. He believes it would have taken 2-3 days. 
Ref: DRN30801013So he says the delay was closer to ten months  rather than eight. Hes unhappy that CIS 
didnt challenge  the mention of asbestos.
He believes the recommendations were unnecessary, exaggerated and caused  considerable
delay. He understands an insurer  will err on the side of caution. But he believes he has
exposed the fact that companies know insurers will not challenge their recommended works
once the word asbestos is used.
Mr P said the LA told him in December 2018 that there was no need for the restoring
contractor to have  removed the wallpaper. As her readings were significantly different to the
restoring contractors  both in September and November  2018 then he believes only one
conclusion can be drawn: that the restoring contractor was dishonest.  Mr P doesnt feel we
have properly considered the seriousness  of the issues he has raised.
Mr P said he redecorated all of their retiring home when  they moved there twenty  years  ago.
He took great pride in doing so. He said he was horrified at the damage  the restoration
contractor had done. He said their home  looked trashed. To be left with the walls  as they
were for so long has caused Mr and Mrs P considerable upset. Mr P said even though CIS
has agreed to redecorate,  it wont be his work  and he is no longer able to carry out the work
himself.
He feels the acute distress caused after being told theyd have to move into alternative
accommodation hasnt  been properly considered. He said the prospect of having to do so 
and the weeks  of fighting to have a second  opinion  caused  sleepless nights for both of
them and had a significant impact on his wife. The restoring company insisted the floor tiles
in the lounge and dining room should be tested for asbestos, their decision to tear the
wallpaper and their insistence  that drying out was required  across  all three areas  of their
home had a serious impact. Mr and Mrs P want their actions to be considered separately to
the compensation award the investigator  recommended for overall delay.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 May 2020. I thought CIS should pay Mr and Mrs P a 
further compensation award of £1,000 in addition  to the £500  it already paid. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.  So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accept  my provisional  
decision, my final decision  is along the same lines.
Mr P has provided a detailed chronology and account of what  happened which has been
very helpful. I can assure Mr P that Ive read all of the information  he and CIS has provided. I
dont intend to repeat every aspect of the chronology Mr P has provided. That doesnt mean
I havent considered  the impact overall.  I will expand on the salient issues  Mr P has raised.
I think its very clear that the handling  of Mr and Mrs Ps claim by CIS has been extremely
poor. CIS accepts that the service provided to Mr and Mrs P was well below standard.
I understand Mr P strongly believes the works  could have taken a few days at most to
complete. I cant safely conclude that. I understand Mr Ps view about the asbestos finding.
Ref: DRN30801014And I can see he went to the trouble of contacting a specialist to show  that it was possible
for a building contractor   or Mr P  to have carefully  removed  the tiles around the area of
damage  as the risk was perceived as low. Mr P feels the approach CIS has taken means
third party suppliers can quote for exaggerated works. But it isnt for me to decide how an
insurer wishes to act in consideration of risk and health and safety. CIS said it wouldnt
agree to the methods of repair Mr P was advised.  It would always  take the option  with the
lowest possible risk. It wouldnt  agree to works that could have the potential  to cause risk or
injury to Mr P or family or suppliers. I cant criticise CIS for its approach here.
So as asbestos was identified, I think the works  could have taken up to two months to allow
time for testing and possible removal first. So I think its reasonable to say that CIS caused a
delay of around eight months in this case.  I think its fair to award  compensation of £800 in
relation to the delay and poor service.
Ive looked at the photos of the open  trench that was left for 12 weeks.  It stretched across
the doorway to either the dining room or lounge. Its clear that this was dangerous and not
properly covered. As Mr P said, his wife is registered blind and they are both in their eighties.
They had to go across  the trench in order to access the kitchen  and bathroom.
Mr P regularly chased both CIS and the building contractor to have the trench filled in
between September  and November 2018. He promptly arranged for the leak to be repaired
the day after it was identified. I think the delay  here was unacceptable.  I think CIS failed to
take into account the vulnerability of Mr and Mrs P. And I think Mr and Mrs P were caused
significant inconvenience.
I understand how strongly Mr P feels about the actions of the restoration  company. Photos of
the walls  show large parts of paper were stripped from several  areas of the hall, lounge and
dining room. It is unsightly and Mr and Mrs P had to live with this for over a year.  When Mr P
first reported  the incident, a small piece of wallpaper had de-bonded. In my view,  this could
have easily  have been fixed as it was still neatly  in place.
Its also clear  that the meter readings obtained  by Mr Ps tradesman, Mr P and the LA
contradicted the readings reported by the restoration company. I cant  make a finding  that
the restoration contractor was dishonest. However,  as CIS accepted the findings of the LAs
report in December 2018, it follows that this contradicted the restoration companys findings.
As the restoration  company acted  on behalf of CIS, CIS is ultimately  responsible for the
impact of their actions on Mr and Mrs P. This is something I can consider.
Mr P has articulated what the impact  has been on him and his wife by the two visits and
findings of the restoration  company.  I do sympathise  with them  as I think theyve been put to
significant distress and inconvenience which could  have been avoided.  Ive no doubt it was a
very worrying time and a significant upheaval to consider  especially given Mrs Ps
disability. So I can understand why Mr P feels so strongly about this particular part of his
complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P is very upset  about  the fact that his property requires  redecorating
which also could have  been avoidable.
So I think CIS should increase the overall compensation it pays  Mr and Mrs P from £500 to
£1,500. I think  this is a fairer amount  to reflect the level of distress and inconvenience
caused by the number  of failings in the handling  of their claim.
Ref: DRN30801015my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited  to 
pay Mr and Mrs P a further £1,000 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its handling  of their claim. This is in addition to the £500 its already paid.
CIS General Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on 
which we tell it Mr and Mrs P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
If CIS General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 July 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3080101