K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained  because  National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) charged  them  
an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) when they paid off their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs C had received a text message which they believed  had offered  them  the 
opportunity to take their mortgage  to a new property without an ERC. They want  a refund  of 
the ERC  which NatWest  charged them.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a NatWest mortgage  for £52,490 in May 2017. The terms and 
conditions of the offer had said theyd have  to pay an ERC of 2% of the outstanding balance 
if they paid off their mortgage before 31 August 2018, or 1% of the outstanding balance  if 
they did so before 31 August 2019.
Later in 2017,  NatWest  sent Mrs C a text message. This said:
Did you know  that you could take your existing mortgage with you if you are moving home  
without paying  early repayment charges. If you would like to learn  more  about this feature  of 
your mortgage call us on [number] or go to [website address]. 
Mrs C rang NatWest on 24 October  2017.  She said she wanted  to discuss moving  home and 
changing the current mortgage  deal.  She told the adviser their property was on the market 
and they wanted to find out whether it was feasible to stay with NatWest.  The adviser took 
Mrs C through an affordability check.  They were looking  to buy a property for around 
£130,000 and had a £10,000 deposit  to put towards the purchase.  But the computerised  
check came  back  that the bank couldnt lend.
Mr and Mrs C got a mortgage with another lender and went ahead with their move.  They 
completed in April 2018, and complained because NatWest charged  them  an ERC of 
£992.08.
NatWest didnt uphold  their complaint. It said the ERC had been  charged in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions.
Mrs C replied to NatWest  that it had sent its 5 April response by post,  when shed asked for 
it to be emailed. NatWest  apologised. Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage had been paid off on 6 April,  
so the bank said that it had been  sent to the right (old) address. But it realised this would  
have been frustrating for Mr and Mrs C. It paid Mr and Mrs C £30 as an apology  for this.
Mr and Mrs C were still unhappy  about  being charged the ERC, and complained  to this 
service. They said NatWests text message had been misleading,  and false advertising. 
They thought the text should have shown the terms and conditions, and NatWest  shouldnt 
have charged them  the ERC.
The adjudicator didnt uphold their complaint. He explained that if theyd been asking to 
transfer the same amount of mortgage,  he could have looked into why NatWest refused. But 
Mr and Mrs C wanted to borrow  more  than on their current mortgage. So hed expect  
NatWest to carry out a full affordability  assessment, as a responsible lender.
Ref: DRN30516862The adjudicator also considered the text message. He appreciated that it could  have 
contained more  information. But as a promotional text message,  it didnt  have to include all 
the terms and conditions. The adjudicator pointed out that the message had said you could 
not you will. So it wasnt  saying that NatWest  would definitely approve  a mortgage. And if 
Mr and Mrs C had been concerned about the terms and conditions, they could have asked 
NatWest.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied. They  said they were still unhappy that the text message  
hadnt had terms  and conditions attached, or accessible elsewhere.  NatWest hadnt sent the 
terms and conditions with its reply to their complaint.  They  still wanted  a copy. And they said 
that when they went  through  the affordability  check, NatWest should  have told them the ERC  
would be charged.
Mr and Mrs C also looked at the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)s guidance  and 
highlighted areas where  they felt NatWest hadnt complied. They said NatWest  couldnt offer 
a promotion without the associated terms being shown or accessible.
The adjudicator replied that the text message hadnt been an offer of exemption from paying 
an ERC. It had been more  about  the alternative  options which  could help in not paying an 
ERC, so they could  contact the bank  to find out more. He also looked at the FCA text which 
Mrs C had sent. But he said that when we look at a complaint, we consider impartially 
whether a mistake  has been made.  And he didnt think NatWest had made any mistake.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the call 
recording from when Mrs C rang and did the affordability check.
Looking at the text message, I consider that it makes it sufficiently clear that to find out more, 
borrowers would have to ring NatWest or look at the banks website. Because  of this, I dont 
agree with Mr and Mrs C that NatWest  should have attached  terms and conditions  to the 
promotional message. It was clear  that anyone interested would need to phone  the bank for 
more information,  or look on the website.
I do agree  with Mr and Mrs C that the phrase you could take your existing mortgage with 
you could have been clearer. It doesnt  say you will be able to, so I dont accept that there  
was any guarantee  offered. But it would have  been  better if it had said something like you 
might be able to. However, the subsequent sentence about  phoning  or looking on the 
website is enough  to mean  that, taken as a whole, the message wasnt misleading.  So 
I dont think it would  have  been reasonable to assume  from the text message that there was 
a guarantee of no ERC.
I find it was sufficiently clear that anyone  interested in the offer would have to ring up to ask 
more, or look on the website. I havent  any evidence that Mr and Mrs C did ring up to ask 
specifically about  the text message. When Mrs C rang NatWest  in October, she was asking 
about borrowing  more  for the new property. She didnt  say that she believed  the text 
message had guaranteed  theyd be able to move their current mortgage, nor did she ask for 
terms and conditions. I also accept  that if theyd looked at the website after getting the text, 
theyd have read that theyd have to get in touch for more details.
Ref: DRN30516863Mr and Mrs C have said NatWest still didnt send  them the terms and conditions, even when 
they complained.  They  still want to see them. I havent seen any evidence  that they 
specifically requested these as part of the complaint to NatWest. But the terms and 
conditions they need to see are the terms and conditions  of their existing mortgage. These 
were the ones which applied, and the text message didnt change the legally-binding 
mortgage offer on which theyd completed in 2017.
These terms and conditions are set out in Mr and Mrs Cs original 2017 mortgage offer. 
Section 8 is about ERCs, and section  9 is about  what happens when  a borrower wants to 
move home. These are about  a page in total, so I wont copy them all here. But they set out 
what Mr and Mrs C needed to know, including  the first sentence of the first bullet point which  
starts: Your  new application must meet our lending criteria current at the time you move. 
Sadly, Mr and Mrs C didnt meet  this requirement.
In terms of NatWests rejection of Mr and Mrs Cs application, Ive listened to the phone  
recording of the affordability check conversation. I havent seen the computer record of what 
the banks adviser  typed  in, because NatWest has told us that it doesnt  keep these 
indefinitely. But in any case, banks are entitled to make their own lending decisions, and 
these are based on a range of factors.
Mr and Mrs C also say that when  they went through the affordability check, NatWest should  
have told them the ERC would be charged. I dont agree with this, because  the focus  of the 
call was solely on affordability of the mortgage which Mrs C outlined.  It wasnt  about their 
existing mortgage.  If Mrs C had asked about the ERC, or the text message, or what  would 
happen if they went elsewhere  for a mortgage, Id have expected the adviser  to clarify what  
would happen  about the ERC. But the call was solely about whether  or not NatWest  would 
consider lending around £120,000 on a possible new property costing around £130,000. So 
I dont agree that the adviser had a responsibility  to raise the question of the ERC.
Ive also considered the fact that NatWest  sent their first response to Mrs Cs complaint by 
post rather than by email.  Shed asked for this by email, and I can appreciate that as they 
were moving home at that time, email would be preferable. I consider it was appropriate  that 
NatWest paid £30 compensation for the inconvenience caused  by sending a postal letter  
instead of the email  requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051686