K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to review and subsequently 
close his account  without a reason or explanation.  He said that Nat Wests action has 
caused him distress. 
background
In July 2018, Nat West contacted Mr S and asked him to get in touch with them. They 
wanted to ensure the details they held for Mr S were accurate and up to date.
In August  2018,  Mr S and Nat West spoke on the telephone and Nat West asked for further 
details about certain  transactions.  Mr S followed this up in writing  where  he supplied details 
of transactions  and what they were used  for. 
Shortly afterwards Nat West wrote  to Mr S and advised him of their intention  to close  his 
account in 60 days. They didnt provide Mr S with a reason why they were closing his 
account. Mr S got back in touch with HSBC and asked them to review their decision  but 
they didnt. Nat West closed the account in November 2018, and sent Mr S a cheque  with 
the remaining  balance.
The investigator who reviewed things didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said Nat West 
wasnt obliged to give Mr S a reason why they closed his account  and he was satisfied 
theyd given appropriate notice under the terms and conditions.  He didnt think  it would be 
fair to ask Nat West to pay compensation or ask it to reopen Mr Ss account.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and mentioned that NatWest should  reconsider their 
decision as he has banked with them  for 33 years and it was important his savings were  kept 
in this account.
Mr S got back in touch  to ask why we couldnt tell Nat West to reconsider their decision. The 
investigator responded and explained that Nat West carried out a review on Mr Ss account  
 which  theyre entitled to do under  their legal and regulatory obligations. And following their 
review, they decided to end the banking relationship with Mr S. The investigator thought their 
actions were fair, so he wouldnt  be asking  them  to do anything  different.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. I appreciate this will disappoint Mr S so Ive 
explained my reasons  further below.
I appreciate Mr S feels strongly  about this complaint.  But Nat West are entitled to review  the 
account under the account  terms and conditions. And Im satisfied that Nat West acted in 
line with their legal and regulatory  obligations when it reviewed Mr Ss account. Ive also 
considered the time they took to review  it  and it was just over a week. I dont consider this 
to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN34412212Nat West are entitled to close an account  with Mr S just as Mr S may close his account  with 
Nat West. But before Nat West  closes an account,  they must  do so in a way, which complies 
with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Nat West and Mr S had to comply  with 
 say that Nat West can close the account by giving 60 days  notice. Nat West have done  
this. So Im satisfied they were entitled to close the account.
I know Mr S is frustrated  that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his account 
was closed. And he thinks Nat West should  reconsider their decision because hes banked 
with them  for so long.  And he wants his saving accounts to be held in the Nat West account. 
But under the terms and conditions Nat West doesnt have to give a reason for closing the 
account  in the same way Mr S wouldnt  have  to, should he have decided  he no longer 
wanted to bank with Nat West. So I cant say Nat West has done anything wrong by not 
giving Mr S a reason  for closing the account, or for deciding to end the banking relationship.
overall
In summary,  I know my decision will come as a great  frustration and disappointment to Mr S. 
But having  looked at whats happened  here I dont think Nat West acted unreasonably or 
outside the terms and conditions of the accounts.  So I wont  be asking them to do anything 
differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441221