K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the way Hastings Insurance Services Limited  handled his motor  
insurance policy renewal.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mr M has provided detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Mr M says he sent Hastings an email in March 2018 requesting  that his policy  didnt 
automatically renew. But Hastings says it didnt receive it and if it had it wouldve sent 
an automatic acknowledgement with a reference number. Mr M cannot  now supply 
this acknowledgement and also casts  doubt on whether  one was actually sent.  But 
whether or not one was sent Hastings says, and I accept on balance, that it cannot 
delete received  emails  from its system.  On the available evidence  I think  its most 
likely that for some  reason Hastings didnt actually receive Mr Ms email.
Mr M says that he should  only have  to tell Hastings once that he doesnt  want  his 
policies to automatically renew. And he had done  so when hed held a previous 
policy. But that policy was for another vehicle  and his complaint  here relates to a 
newly set up policy for a different vehicle. So, I dont think its surprising there are no 
links between the previous and current policies.  And I dont think I can fairly say 
Hastings has done anything wrong by saying it would automatically renew the current  
policy. In any event  I note Hastings stopped the current policy  from renewing  before 
the actual renewal date.  Overall I think Hastings has acted  reasonably in this regard 
and Mr M hasnt  suffered  any actual  loss or disadvantage.
Mr M also says Hastings has failed him in respect of GDPR in its handling of his 
personal data. That isnt something  I can comment  on. If Mr M remains unhappy 
about this he may wish to approach the Information Commissioners  Office.
Mr M is also unhappy he has had to raise and pursue a complaint to Hastings and 
then to this service. But all consumers spend some  time and experience some 
additional inconvenience in dealing with a complaint and trying to put things right. We 
wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated for this and Im not persuaded 
that I can reasonably  depart from this approach in this case.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling and 
frustration, I think Hastings  has acted  fairly  and I dont  think I can reasonably  require 
Ref: DRN36797772it to do anything more  or differently, including paying  him any compensation as hed 
like.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Hastings Insurance  Services 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679777