K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr S bought the policy in 1997  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Mr S applied for his credit card and PPI policy. To be fair 
to Mr S, Lloyds has treated it as a branch sale. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a Team Leader. He has told us he was not entitled  to 
any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means  of repaying his credit card should  he be 
unable to work. Hes said he was entitled to some redundancy  pay through his employer.   
Mr S has said he had a medical  condition  at the time of the sale. 
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr S credit card balance  in the event of 
a successful claim. At the time, it cost 72p per £100  of the monthly outstanding balance.  
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2005.
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and 
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
Ref: DRN30856962As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ss. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr S case.  
 
Ref: DRN30856963Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr S sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Theres no longer  a record of how the policy was sold, which isnt unreasonable  considering 
the sale was around  24 years ago. Lloyds has said its more likely it would have been a 
branch sale and have given me a sample  credit card application from that time. And I think  
its more likely this represents what Mr S would have seen at the time. This had a separate  
section for PPI that gave an outline of the cost, benefits and cover. It gave the option to tick 
Ref: DRN30856964a box if you wanted  the cover, and I think it was clear it could have been left blank if the PPI 
wasnt wanted. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr S knew the policy  was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Its not clear if this was an advised  sale or not. But to be fair to Mr S, Lloyds have treated it 
as an advised  sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr S with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S. It seems Mr S cant remember clearly what  happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  The  adviser likely had 
some limited  information about Mr Ss financial circumstances, but there  is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr S would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet his needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  Mr S 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr S given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr S, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ss ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits  he says 
he would  have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr S.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr S. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ss employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr S has told us about a 
broken bone he suffered. But this doesnt appear  to be caught by the policy  
limitations and exclusions. This is because the policy excluded disabilities caused or 
contributed to by a condition for which treatment  from a doctor was sought in the 12 
months prior to the sale. As Mr Ss incident  occurred  6 years before, I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable for him.
 
Ref: DRN30856965-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ss circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr S sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr S would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr S would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. The sample application form weve  been  provided with 
also described the policy as cover  to protect your payments if youre unable to work through 
sickness, injury  or unemployment, which would have  given him some  idea of what the policy 
was for.
I am also satisfied Mr S would have  realised the policy  wasnt free and its likely he would 
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr S 
agreed to take out the policy.  Even if that information were in a leaflet or policy summary    
Mr S might have been given, I think its more likely than not that he based his decision on the 
things he was told, rather than on anything he was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied that the policy  was a suitable recommendation for Mr S, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to Mr S. Im not persuaded  that Lloyds gave Mr S all of the information  
he needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S representative has raised a number  of 
general points  in regards to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr S. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN30856966-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr S. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr S would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr S, Ive found that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr S has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr S would have acted differently, or whether  he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr S had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr S circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr S ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
Ref: DRN30856967accept that Lloyds didnt make  clear the on-going cost information. So while  Mr S didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions Mr S consulted or received  
treatment from a doctor for in the 12 months  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr S says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken  out, I dont think better information about  this exclusion would have put 
him off agreeing  to it. As I mentioned earlier, Mr S says he broke a bone in 1991, some  6 
years before the policy was taken out. As Mr S hasnt  mentioned  any ongoing  issues  with 
the injury, I dont think it would have  affected  his decision to take out the policy.  
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr S would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting and he didnt have any means of meeting his credit card 
repayments if he was unable to work due to accident or sickness.  And in those 
circumstances I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Ref: DRN30856968Mr Ss representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr S representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr S and about the remedy  a court  
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
Ref: DRN30856969circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3085696