K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds)  closed his bank account and wont  tell him 
why.  
background
On 23 November 2018, Lloyds sent Mr S a letter giving him two months notice  of closure of 
his account. Once  the two months passed  Lloyds closed the account. Lloyds said its 
decision was in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Lloyds told Mr S that it didnt have  to give a reason for why it was closing the account. 
Mr S was unhappy with this as he would like his account to remain  open. He would also like 
to know the details of why Lloyds has chosen to close his account. So he brought  his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said Lloyds had commercial  discretion about 
who it does and doesnt do business  with, and Lloyds had complied with the terms and 
conditions of the account when it was closing it. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. So the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a 
decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ultimately its a matter for Lloyds to decide who it wishes to have as a customer, and the 
account terms and conditions allow Lloyds to close an account  if the correct  notice is given.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions for Mr Ss account.  These do allow  Lloyds to make  a 
commercial decision and close an account  once it has written to Mr S at least two months  
before. Mr S has told us that he received the account closure  letter, and based on the 
system notes Lloyds has provided  to us I can see that he had a notice of two months  before 
the account was closed.  
I understand that Mr S would like to know why Lloyds has taken this decision,  but the terms 
and conditions of his account  dont  say that it has to give specific reasons for the account 
closure, and I can only look at whether Lloyds has acted in line with the terms and conditions 
- which I think  it has.
So whilst I realise that my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not asking 
Lloyds to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN35677722my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3567772