K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) made an entry  about  him on a fraud 
prevention database when it rejected a mortgage application hed made.
background
Mr V spoke with a broker about arranging a mortgage as a first time buyer. Ill call the 
brokers firm S.
BoI received  an application for a mortgage from S in June 2017, which it declined. It said it 
would re-consider the application  if it received further information. Mr V submitted some  of 
this information,  via S, but the application  was ultimately marked as not continuing in 
July 2017.
In August  2017,  Mr V made a mortgage application  directly with BoI, as he says S told him to 
approach them directly. BoI declined the application.
Some time later, Mr V found  that BoI had recorded  an entry on CIFAS, a fraud prevention  
database, about him.
Mr V complained to BoI, who said it thought the marker had been added fairly.  Our 
investigator didnt  think  BoI acted unfairly, so Mr V asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am only considering whether BoI acted  fairly and reasonably  in adding an 
entry to CIFAS. I am not considering the actions  of S here.  I understand that our investigator  
has discussed this with Mr V and explained he can raise a separate  complaint with S if he 
wishes.
Like all lenders, BoI considers information  and evidence it receives in respect of a mortgage  
application. It carries out its standard underwriting checks to try to confirm the accuracy  of 
what its told and to decide whether it wants to lend. Its important to note that theres no 
obligation to lend  and theres no obligation  to give reasons for a refusal either.
BoI says it recorded  the entry on CIFAS because in the second application Mr V made  
directly with BoI he said hed never  had a mortgage  application declined.  But it had 
previously declined the application hed made  through S, a short time before  it felt he knew  
that, should have declared it and therefore  hadnt  completed the application accurately
Mr V says that S never informed him that BoI declined  the mortgage  application.  Ive taken 
into account everything Mr V has told us about  his interactions with S. I have  also been 
provided with an email from S to Mr V which told him the first application  had been  declined, 
though BoI would reconsider it if he supplied further documentation about his income.  Mr V 
now says the first application was declined because S didnt include income  from his second 
job, which he gave it to pass  on, so he thought the application was still under  consideration 
and he needed  to talk to BoI about it.
Ref: DRN39319472Ive looked at both applications.  The second  job is included in the first one. Ive seen  emails  
from S advising  Mr V that the first application was declined, and telling him what  further 
information would be needed to overturn  the decline. S says Mr V didnt provide that 
information and I havent seen evidence  to suggest  otherwise.  The second application was 
made a couple  of months later.  
When making a referral to CIFAS, BoI has to have reasonable grounds to do so. I think it 
had reasonable grounds to suspect that Mr V had given misleading information in support of 
an application. Based  on what it knew at the time, I dont think  that was an unfair conclusion. 
And based on the evidence Ive seen since, Im not persuaded that Mr V was unaware the 
first application had been declined. So, I cant say it acted unreasonably  in recording an 
entry on CIFAS and I cant reasonably ask it to remove  the entry now. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3931947