K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  (BGI) failed to check  her central 
heating system properly when it agreed  to take it on under her home  emergency  insurance 
policy. The result was that she continued to use the system for several  years  with 
substandard plastic gas supply pipework before this came  to light.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 January 2019 which  is attached to, 
and forms part of, this decision.
Neither Mrs S nor BGI produced anything further to challenge what  I said in the 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs S nor BGI has provided  any fresh information or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I find no basis to depart from my earlier conclusions.
my final decision
My decision  is that I order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S compensation of £175 
for the distress and inconvenience it caused  her by failing to notice and tell her about the 
defects earlier.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34557802complaint
Mrs S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  failed to check her central  heating  system 
properly when  it agreed to take it on under her home emergency insurance policy. The result  was that 
she continued  to use the system for several  years  with substandard plastic  gas supply pipework  
before this came to light.
background
In 2014 Mrs S agreed to take out a home emergency policy with BGI. Before it issued  the policy, BGI 
inspected the boiler to check  it was working  correctly and safely, and pronounced  it fit for contract.
However in 2017, during a routine service, a BGI engineer noticed that the gas supply pipework from 
the gas main to the meter was plastic. Also, an isolation switch was missing. This meant the system 
shouldnt have been taken  on for insurance. So BGI wouldnt carry out any further work on it. Mrs S 
was worried and distressed when she found  this out and complained to us.
our investigators view
Initially our investigator said that BGI wasnt responsible for installing the pipework,  or for now making 
it good.  But he thought  BGI should compensate Mrs S for the distress she suffered  when she found  
she had been living with it for three years by refunding the part of the premium she had paid for boiler  
servicing, plus interest.
Mrs S agreed  with this, as she thought that by failing  to notice the defects BGI hadnt been carrying 
out its services professionally.  She was worried  when  she realised the system hadnt been safe for 
some time.
BGI thought  the compensation proposed  wasnt appropriate,  as during the period of the insurance 
Mrs S had had the benefit of her boiler being  serviced  as well as other maintenance/repair  work. It 
said the defects wouldnt  have been  obvious to its engineer at the time of the initial inspection.
The investigator said that in his view:
BGI wasnt  responsible  for the pipework  being installed and the isolation switch being missing, as 
these matters pre-dated its involvement;
it wasnt  responsible for rectifying them;
he didnt think BGI ought  to have  been aware  of the defects till 2017;
when BGI found out, it was entitled  to withdraw  cover; and
while the policy was in force, Mrs S received  the services  she had paid for.
All in all he didnt think there had been any loss that he could require BGI to cover.
Mrs S responded to say, in summary, that the faulty  pipework was identified  during a routine service 
in 2017 by a BGI engineer.  It was clearly visible, so BGIs engineers  should  have noticed it sooner if 
they were doing their job properly. And the pipework was actually covered by the insurance policy; so 
BGI should have done more  to check  it before taking it on.
BGI said, in summary,  that:
the pipework immediately below the gas meter wasnt plastic.  It only changed to plastic further 
down so wouldnt be immediately  obvious to its engineers;
it wasnt  responsible under the policy  for the gas supply up to the meter, or for work  done by 
other persons; and
Ref: DRN34557803while it didnt think it was at fault,  it appreciated  that being told her pipework  was non- complaint 
and BGI could no longer cover her under the policy  could cause  distress to Mrs S. It offered 
compensation of £100 for this distress.
Mrs S refused  BGIs  offer.  She said she didnt think it had acted with the professionalism she was 
entitled to expect  when she took out the policy. She also thought she had been mis-sold  the policy  as 
from the diagram in BGIs documentation she was entitled to expect that the gas supply pipework was 
included in the policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I dont agree  that BGIs documentation, and the diagram included  in it, suggests that the 
gas supply pipework  from the gas main to the gas meter is included in the policy. In the diagram, the 
boiler and its controls  are coloured yellow, as are the gas supply pipes between  the meter and the 
boiler, and the meter and other gas appliances.
However the suppliers  gas pipe from outside the house to the meter  is uncoloured and described in 
the key as shown for reference and not included with these agreements. So I dont think theres 
anything in the policy documents to suggest this pipework was covered by the policy Mrs S bought, 
and I cant say the policy  was mis-sold to her.
BGI and Mrs S disagree about whether BGIs engineers should have noticed, when they first 
inspected the system before issuing the policy, or on later annual inspections,  that an isolation switch 
was missing and the gas supply pipework  to the meter was plastic. 
BGI says that given where these were situated  it wouldnt  have expected its engineers  necessarily  to 
have noticed these issues. Mrs S says they should have been  obvious to anyone  standing  in front of 
the gas meter.  
From the photos Mrs S has supplied, its true that the pipe immediately below  the meter  isnt plastic. 
But after some 18 inches there is a join to a yellow  plastic pipe which is clearly visible in the photos. 
On balance, I think  BGIs engineers should have noticed this when they first inspected the system  and 
on each later visual inspection.
BGIs terms  and conditions make it clear  that the policy doesnt  cover design  or existing faults to the 
system. So if its engineers  had noticed this defect on their inspection  visit, BGI wouldnt have allowed  
the system to be covered by its policy, at least until Mrs S had arranged for the defects  to be 
corrected at her expense.  
Because BGI didnt notice the defects, it issued the policy, and Mrs S had the benefit of insurance 
cover for her central heating system, her plumbing and drains, and her electrical system,  and had her 
boiler serviced, for several years. Ive seen nothing to suggest that any work BGI did under the policy 
wasnt properly carried out.  
So although BGI wouldnt  have issued  the policy  if it had known about the defects,  it did issue the 
policy and work under it was properly  carried  out. In that respect  Mrs S got what she paid for. The 
plastic piping, and the absence of the isolation switch might,  in some circumstances, have had more 
serious consequences, but fortunately this didnt happen.
Its not our role to fine or punish a business for anything it has done  or failed to do. That is for the 
Financial Conduct Authority as its regulator to consider. We can require a business to compensate a 
customer for any financial  loss its caused them. But in this case  I cant  say Mrs S has suffered any 
loss under the insurance contract for which I should require BGI to compensate her.
Ref: DRN34557804I do understand that when Mrs S found out that during the period of the policy she had been living with 
defects that in some circumstances  could  have  caused  a serious incident, this caused her distress and 
inconvenience. Because I think  BGI should have noticed the defects at the outset and at each 
subsequent service visit, I think its fair that it compensates Mrs S for this distress and inconvenience.  
BGI has offered to pay Mrs S compensation of £100. I think the appropriate figure in all the 
circumstances is £175.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs S or from BGI by 12 February 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to 
order British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs S compensation of £175 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused  her by failing  to notice  and tell her about the defects earlier.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455780