K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SoL)  voided (cancelled as though it had never 
existed) her buildings insurance  policy because it believes she gave an incorrect answer to a 
question it asked when  she applied for the policy. 
background
In June 2018 Ms G arranged a buildings insurance policy  for a property she owns  and rents  
out.  The policy was arranged through a broker, which  was acting on Ms Gs behalf during 
the application process. The broker was provided with a list of questions SoL wanted Ms G 
to answer. One of those questions was:
Has the Premises or the surrounding area suffered from any signs of movement or had any 
remedial work in connection  with Landslip, Heave or Subsidence?
There is no recording of the call, in which Ms Gs circumstances and needs were  discussed 
and questions were  asked. However, the broker confirmed to SoL that it has a standard  
script and asks:
Can you please confirm  to the best of your knowledge if the property or surrounding area 
has ever suffered or shows signs of any subsidence, heave or landslip?
Ms G appears to have  answered No to this question. The broker  then answered No to the 
question SoL had asked.
Two months  later Ms G was made aware by her tenant of existing cracking to the property 
having expanded over the long hot summer.  The following month a claim was made under 
the insurance policy. 
SoL commissioned a firm of loss adjusters to assess the claim. It concluded the damage to 
the property was due to clay shrinkage subsidence  causing downward movement of the 
left-hand elevation.  The report noted that the tenant had been aware of cracking for at least  
the previous two years, but the damage  had developed significantly  over the dry summer 
months. It was detailed that there  was extensive  cracking and distortion within the building,  
that every  room was affected and there was stepped cracking  to both the front and rear 
elevation. The surveyor commented that the extent of cracking and distortion suggested that 
the movement  had been on-going for a significant period.
At the beginning  of January 2019  SoL informed Ms G that it was voiding the insurance policy 
on the grounds of misrepresentations made by Ms G when she applied  for the policy. 
SoL said that Ms G had answered the question about movement and subsidence incorrectly. 
It said that if it had been told about the pre-existing damage its loss adjusters had identified,  
it wouldnt have agreed to provide the policy. As such, the policy  was voided ab initio  
cancelled as though it had never existed.
Ms G wasnt  happy with what SoL said and complained. She said she hadnt known the 
cracking was caused by subsidence and had answered the questions  in good faith. 
SoL didnt  change its decision.  As Ms G wasnt  happy with SoLs response, she referred her 
complaint to this service.  When  she did so she explained that she had bought the property 
as new in 1978, but as she has lived abroad  for many years,  it has been rented to a long-
Ref: DRN35430892term tenant. As she doesnt come to England very often,  she hasnt seen the property  in 
around ten years and is entirely reliant  on the tenant to keep her informed of any issues or 
requirements that might need attention.
During the investigation into her complaint, Ms G provided an email shed received from her 
tenant in October  2016 and some photographs  hed sent her.  The email said that he was 
contacting her about the cracking  in the property.  He reminded her that when she had last 
visited there had been  some cracking.  He confirmed  that the existing cracks had got bigger 
and there  were new cracks. The photographs showed cracks near to doors and windows 
which were of a notable width in places.
An email  from August 2018 was also provided.  In that email  the tenant again said he was 
emailing about  the cracks in the property. He says the original  ones seem  to have got bigger 
and there  appeared to be more. He said that whilst he wasnt a surveyor, he felt the cracks 
were more than just cosmetic. 
Ms G also commissioned  her own engineer  to assess  her property. It assessed the property 
in mid-2019 and completed some site investigations. It was evidenced the ground on which  
Ms Gs property  was built was clay to at least 2 metres down and there were willow and 
poplar roots  present to 1.2 metres.  It was concluded  the cause of the movement in the 
property was clay shrinkage caused by the large tree near the gable wall of the house.  
SoL provided this service  with a copy of its underwriting criteria. Whilst this is not something 
we can share with Ms G, we can confirm that if the question SoL asked  was answered yes 
and repairs had not been completed, the application  would have been declined.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He considered the question SoL asked 
was clear, that Ms Gs response was wrong  and that the error was a reckless one. SoL had 
evidenced it wouldnt have accepted  the application if the question had been answered 
correctly. As such, he considered SoL had acted reasonably  in voiding the policy. 
Ms G didnt accept the investigators conclusion. She considered  the investigator had 
assessed the complaint based  on an incorrect understanding of misrepresentation  she 
said misrepresentation had to involve  intent to deceive or be unfair. That was not the 
situation in this case as she had made all statements honestly and in good faith. She 
reiterated that she hadnt know  the property was suffering  from subsidence. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider. 
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2020. In that document  I set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. I also detailed an offer SoL had decided to 
make to Ms G.  Below is an excerpt.
Before I consider the merits  of Ms Gs complaint, I will comment  on a concern she had 
regarding the information she was given  when her policy was voided.  She has mentioned  
that she thinks the letter from SoL should have informed her of her right to complain and 
appeal. There is no requirement  for an insurer to tell a consumer that they have the right to 
complain  its a given that if a consumer is unhappy  with something, they can complain 
about it. It is only after a complaint  has been  made and eight weeks have  passed,  or on 
provision of an earlier response,  that the insurer must tell a complainant  about  their right to 
refer the complaint to this service.
Ref: DRN35430893Ms G applied for her policy through a broker. It appears that Ms G may not have been asked 
the exact question SoL wanted her to answer. However, when the broker  interacted with 
SoL, it was doing so on Ms Gs behalf  and it completed the application form on her behalf. 
As such,  Ms G was responsible for ensuring the answers to the questions asked by SoL 
were answered correctly. She could have done  this from the statement of facts  included with 
the policy documentation she was sent following  the sale.  I assume  she received this 
information given  she was able to raise  her claim only a short  time later.
I dont think the answer given to Sol in response to its question  was correct.  Ms G had seen 
the cracking to her property quite sometime in the past (it appears around  10 years earlier)  
and shed been told before she took the policy out that the cracks  had got wider  and 
appeared to be continuing  to widen. I think reasonably, even for a layperson,  cracks of the 
size shown in the photographs  Ms G was sent and the knowledge they were getting wider  
would indicate  something was moving.  So I am satisfied Ms G should have answered yes to 
the question SoL asked.  
As the question SoL asked was answered  incorrectly, there was a misrepresentation. 
However, I dont think it was done  deliberately,  I think it should reasonably be considered 
inadvertent misrepresentation on the part of Ms G, rather than reckless. 
When an inadvertent misrepresentation has been  made, an insurer  is entitled to be put back 
in the position it would  have been  in, but for the misrepresentation. In this case  SoL has 
evidenced that the policy application would never have been accepted if the question had 
been answered correctly.  As such, SoL acted reasonably when it voided the policy  and I am 
unable to uphold  this complaint.
However, when I reviewed the complaint  file, I noted that Ms G may not have been asked 
the correct question. Our investigator went back to SoL and highlighted that the 
misrepresentation may have occurred because Ms G was asked  the wrong question by her 
representative. In light of this, and the consequences to Ms G of having to declare  a 
voidance to other insurers hereafter,  SoL has said that it is willing  to alter the records  relating 
to this matter on external  databases to show the policy wasnt voided, but rather  reached the 
end of the policy year and was not renewed. 
Many insurers will not insure an individual who has had a policy voided and so insurance  
can be more difficult to obtain and where it is will often be more  costly. This would be 
especially so when  the property had suffered from subsidence. SoLs  offer would mean that 
Ms G wouldnt have  to declare the voidance when  she applied for new insurance and may 
be able to avoid  some of the difficulties she is likely to encounter going forward. 
The changes SoL has offered  to make are not changes I could require it to make given the 
facts of this case,  but there  would be benefits to Ms G if she accepted  the offer.  I would 
suggest she consider  the offer and confirm to our investigator whether she would like to 
accept it.
SoL didnt  respond  to my provisional decision,  but I am satisfied it received it. 
Ms G said that in light of the previous insurer accepting liability  for the subsidence  damage, 
she accepted  SoLs  offer to record the policy as having expired with no renewal. However, 
she didnt accept my conclusion that an incorrect answer had been given to SoL in relation  
to whether there was evidence of movement  at the property. She was concerned that I 
hadnt seen all of the evidence in the case and said that she had been told by the tenant 
Ref: DRN35430894following his initial email  in 2016 that a builder had said the cracks were  cosmetic.  As such, 
she had answered  the question  correctly  and to the best of her knowledge.  
In addition, Ms G believes that SoL handled the matter poorly and rushed to judgement. She 
believes that the decision to void the policy was precipitous and she should have had the 
opportunity to state her case before a decision was made. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments afresh, alongside Ms Gs further  
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has raised a concern that I may not have seen all of the evidence  relating to her 
complaint. I can assure her that I saw everything both she and SoL sent in, including  the 
short email  chain from 2016 she has referenced. However, having  considered  all of the 
evidence in context,  I was persuaded that the answer to the part of the question about  
movement should  have been  answered  yes and I remain of that opinion.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms G, my conclusions and reasons 
remain the same as those  expressed in my provisional  decision.  I have, however, arranged 
for our investigator to confirm to SoL that she wishes  to accept its offer.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Ms G to accept or reject my decision before 
8 November 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543089