K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  handled a claim under his 
home insurance policy after his property was subject to an escape  of water.
background
In March 2018, Mr Bs bungalow was subject to an escape of water  due to a burst pipe in the 
loft. Mr B was on holiday abroad  at the time. He made a claim to UKI and said it could deal 
with a friend acting  on his behalf until he returned to the UK the following month.
UKI visited the property  and found  it to be extensively damaged  by the escape  of water.  
After carrying out a test to confirm there  was no asbestos, it arranged for drying to take 
place. In the meantime, it also agreed  to cover Mr Bs reasonable cost of alternative 
accommodation while his property remained uninhabitable.
It became apparent  that Mr Bs contents  loss exceeded his contents sum insured of £50,000. 
UKI accepted that Mr Bs under-insurance was inadvertent.  It agreed  to pay his claim up to 
the sum insured. 
Mr B became increasingly unhappy with UKIs handling of the claim.  He complained to it 
about various aspects  including:  delays  in the progression of the claim; the poor 
communication of its contractors; the behaviour of its contractors on-site; and that he had 
been forced to accept  UKIs contractors quote  for the repair work even though this was 
below the market rate. 
In March 2019, UKI issued its final response to Mr Bs complaint. It accepted that there had 
been delays and problems in communication. It apologised  and offered £500 in 
compensation.
Mr B didnt accept UKIs offer. He considered  it was UKIs poor handling  of the claim which 
had caused his clothing to become damaged  beyond economic repair which  had resulted in 
his contents claim exceeding  the sum insured. He thought  that UKI should  therefore meet  
his contents loss in full. He also said that he had intended to rent out his property and the 
delays had therefore deprived  him of rental income for which UKI should compensate him. 
He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He agreed that UKI 
had provided a poor service in some  respects but he was satisfied  its offer of £500  
compensation was fair. He didnt think that Mr B had reasonably  shown it was UKIs fault 
that Mr Bs clothes became damaged beyond economic repair, thus causing his claim  to 
exceed the sum insured.  He furthermore noted that Mr Bs policy didnt provide cover for loss 
of rent and that Mr B hadnt shown the property was about to rented out in any case.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that it was entirely the fault of 
UKI that his clothes  became damaged  beyond economic  repair and that if it werent for UKIs  
failings his claim wouldnt have exceeded the sum insured. He therefore  continued  to argue 
that it should pay his contents loss in full. He also considered that UKI should reimburse his 
phone costs while he was dealing with the claim from overseas.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN31228972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Delays
There were delays on the claim. UKI was notified of the incident on 10 March  2018. It 
attended the property on 13 March and it was decided that an asbestos test needed to be 
done. I consider  it was reasonable  for UKI to reach this conclusion  but the test wasnt carried  
out until 10 April.  I consider  this should have been arranged sooner.
On 17 April 2018, after the asbestos test result had shown there was no asbestos in the 
property, UKI installed a dehumidifier. The following week it tried to install  further humidifiers 
but the evidence shows that Mr B had gone abroad  again and had taken the key from the 
key safe to prevent access to the property while he was away.  He didnt return until 2 May. 
This will have  held up the drying  effort  but I dont consider that UKI should be held 
responsible for this.
On 7 August  2018, although strip out work had already been done, the loss adjuster 
acknowledged that further strip out work  was necessary.  This should have been identified 
sooner.
On 27 August 2018, the property was declared  dry. However, the drying certificate  wasnt 
presented to Mr B until over a month later on 1 October.
Later in October  2018, UKIs contractor took readings which indicated that further  drying 
would be necessary. It transpired  that these were  false readings due to the type of insulation 
but this misunderstanding served to create a further  delay.
Reinstatement work on the property eventually commenced on 17 December 2018.
I consider that the various delays mentioned  above (with the exception of that caused  by 
Mr B when he went away and took the key) could  have  been avoided by UKI. If it hadnt 
been for these  avoidable  delays, the reinstatement  work could  have started perhaps three or 
four months sooner.  I recognise that this caused distress and inconvenience to Mr B. I deal 
with the compensation for this in the section below.
Communication
I can see that there were  problems over communication.  UKI became concerned  at the 
volume of emails which Mr B was sending to its different contractors. It eventually requested 
that he correspond  only with its loss adjuster to avoid confusion. I consider this was a 
reasonable request. Nonetheless, there were certain  times when it appears that UKI and its 
contractors failed to keep Mr B informed  of what was going on. I imagine that Mr B would 
have found this frustrating. 
UKI offered £500 overall compensation for the poor communication  and for the delays which  
I describe above.  I consider this was fair and in line with the amount I would likely have 
awarded had it not made this offer.
Ref: DRN31228973Behaviour of UKIs contractors on-site
Mr B says that he found empty  and full alcoholic drinks containers at his property which  had 
been left by the contractors workmen. He also says the workmen  used the toilets in his 
property without permission.
UKI says the workmen have denied the allegations.  However, it agreed  to replace one of the 
toilets as part of the reinstatement works  and to clean  the other.
I recognise that Mr B was upset by what he believed had happened but the contractors have 
denied the allegations. There is little evidence to show what happened beyond the word of 
each of the parties and I have no reason to favour one partys word  over the others.  That 
means I cant fairly say that UKI was at fault here.  That said,  I consider that UKI conducted a 
reasonable investigation into the concerns which Mr B had raised and that its offer in respect  
of the toilets was fair. I dont consider it needs  to do anything  more.
Being forced to accept UKIs contractors quote
The policy document explains that UKI will not pay more to settle a claim than the amount it 
would have cost it to carry out a repair using its own contractors. UKI correctly advised Mr B 
that this was its approach. It provided  Mr B with its contractors quote  for the work.  Mr B may 
have preferred to use a contractor who was more expensive than UKIs contractor but he 
would therefore  be liable  for any difference  in cost. Im satisfied that UKI acted fairly.
Mr Bs clothes  and the contents claim 
Mr B had cover of £50,000 for his contents. His claim for loss of contents was in excess of 
£80,000. The policy document  explains that if the sum insured is insufficient to cover the 
replacement cost of all contents, UKI may proportionately reduce the claim payment. UKI 
decided, however, that Mr Bs hadnt  deliberately under insured his belongings and agreed  
to pay his claim up to the sum insured of £50,000. I consider this was fair.
Mr Bs claim included  the cost of replacing clothing worth  over £30,000 which  had been 
damaged beyond economic repair. Mr B says that if UKI had handled  the claim properly, the 
clothing could  have been cleaned before  becoming damaged beyond repair and the overall 
cost of his claim would have been within the £50,000 sum insured. He therefore thinks  UKI 
should cover  the cost of replacement clothing without  reference to the sum insured limit.
I disagree with Mr B that it is purely UKIs fault that his clothing became damaged beyond 
economic repair.
When the incident was reported to UKI on 10 March 2018, Mr B was on holiday abroad.  He 
asked a friend to allow UKI access to the property. UKI attended  the property with the friend 
present and it was noted that the clothing  was saturated but no mould was present.  
However, UKI and the friend agreed  that it would be inappropriate  to start going through 
Mr Bs wardrobes and cupboards without  him present.  I consider  this was a reasonable 
position for UKI to take. I dont consider it could be expected, for example, to log and remove  
personal items such as clothing without his authority.
Mr B returned to the UK on 4 April 2018.  On 11 April 2018, he met with UKIs loss adjuster at 
the property. UKI says its loss adjuster told Mr B he could either take his clothing items  to a 
local dry cleaner  or UKI could arrange  for them to be removed and cleaned. Mr B disputes 
Ref: DRN31228974he was told this and, as evidence it couldnt  be true, has pointed  to an email from the loss 
adjuster on 9 April 2018  saying that UKI couldnt  remove items from the property until the 
asbestos test was carried out; although this was carried out on 10 April 2018, the result  of it 
still wasnt known when  he met with the loss adjuster the following day. However, I dont find 
Mr Bs argument particularly persuasive. The test result was imminent and I consider it likely 
that the loss adjuster proposed the options  for handling  of the clothing on the assumption 
that the test proved negative.
In the event, Mr B decided he would remove the clothing to another  storage facility. It isnt 
clear when he did this but it was sometime  between  the meeting on 11 April 2018 and 2 May 
2018. Unfortunately, by the time Mr B sought to get the items cleaned,  it was discovered that 
the clothing had become too damaged  to be successfully cleaned.
It is unclear when the clothing reached the stage when it became too damaged  to be 
successfully cleaned. However, I dont consider that Mr B has reasonably shown it was 
UKIs fault that the clothing  became damaged  in this way. As I have earlier noted, there were 
delays early on in the claim in UKI arranging an asbestos test and this may have held up the 
installation of a dehumidifier. But I have no reasonable grounds  for saying that if it werent for 
this delay, the clothing would have been  repairable, particularly  as it isnt clear  when the 
stage was reached that the clothing could no longer be repaired.
And in any case,  once  the escape of water had occurred, Mr B had a responsibility to take 
steps to mitigate  his losses.  It is unfortunate that he was abroad at the time but that doesnt 
mean he was absolved of any responsibility. And I have no reason to conclude that the 
clothing wasnt salvageable  when he returned  on 4 April 2018,  or that it wasnt still 
salvageable on 11 April 2018  when he was first invited to take the items to a local dry 
cleaner. I dont consider it is fair for him to lay all the blame on UKI.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  that it was fair for UKI to treat Mr Bs loss of 
clothing items as part of his overall contents claim.  Given that UKI settled this claim up to the 
sum insured of £50,000, Im satisfied it doesnt  need  to pay Mr B anything  more to replace  
his damaged clothes  even  though his overall  loss of contents exceeds  the sum insured.
Loss of rent   
Mr B says the delay  in repairing  his property has caused him to lose out on rental  income for 
which UKI should compensate him. However,  as the investigator has explained, his policy 
has no provision for loss of rent. Furthermore, his property was not rented out before the 
escape of water occurred  and he has provided no evidence to support that he intended  
renting it out in the future.  In the circumstances, I consider that UKI is under no obligation to 
pay him compensation for loss of rent.
Phone costs
Mr B says he incurred phone costs of over £500  while dealing with the claim from overseas. 
He considers that UKI should reimburse  him as he had told UKI and its contractors not to 
contact him while  he was away but instead to deal with his friend in the UK. I wouldnt 
normally expect an insurer to reimburse  a policyholders phone costs. It was unfortunate that 
Mr B was overseas at the time he made  his claim but I havent seen evidence to show that 
UKI contacted him unnecessarily. I have no reasonable grounds for saying UKI should  cover 
Mr Bs phone costs while he was overseas.
Ref: DRN31228975my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3122897