K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains, with the help of her solicitors and through her attorney Mrs B, that 
Lighthouse Advisory  Services Limited (previously Temple Financial Planning Limited) gave 
her unsuitable  advice to take out an Equity Release Mortgage (ERM) and invest  in a 
Discounted Gift Trust (DGT).
background
Mrs C contacted an investment adviser  for Lighthouse in 2004  because she was due to 
receive an inheritance.  The investment adviser wrote to her in July 2004 and noted that she 
was going to split the inheritance five ways - between her and her four children. He also 
noted she intended to make  house  improvements and visit family  abroad with some  of the 
money from her portion of the inheritance.  He advised her to invest  the balance  - which  at 
that time wasnt known  - in a DGT.  He asked Mrs C to come back  to him when she knew  
how much  was available for this.
Mrs C came back to the adviser  in 2005 confirming she had £20,000 left to invest.  She met 
with the adviser  on 7 June 2005 and he wrote  to her after the meeting setting out his advice 
that she invest £50,000 in a DGT  so that she could obtain some additional income whilst 
mitigating her potential  IHT liability. This included the proceeds from three  underperforming 
with-profit bonds the adviser thought  she should  cash in. However,  he noted that at the time 
she didnt want to lose control of her money so didnt want to use a DGT.
His advice changed  soon afterwards as shown  in a further letter sent to Mrs C in August 
2005 in which he set out his advice that Mrs C invest a total of £150,000  in a DGT. The 
increase in the amount  to be invested  was from equity release which  the investment adviser 
recommended for IHT mitigation.
Mrs C was referred by the investment adviser  to a colleague to provide  advice  about  the 
equity release who advised that she take out £97,500 by way of an ERM - being the 
maximum she could take out. She then invested  £150,000 in the DGT in accordance with 
the advice she had been given by the investment adviser. 
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint upholding it. A copy of the provisional 
decision is attached  and forms part of this final decision. In short, I made  the following 
findings:
I am not persuaded that Mrs Cs finances  were such  that she needed  equity release 
to provide additional income or for capital  expenditure.
I am not satisfied that equity release was a suitable  recommendation for IHT 
mitigation given the risk of making  the estate  worse off and where there  were  other  
options.
The only meeting the evidence shows took place made no mention of equity release 
for IHT mitigation so its unclear how the investment adviser ended up recommending  
it for this purpose.
There was no suggestion in the June  2005  meeting that Mrs C needed to invest  more 
than £50,000  to provide an additional  income.
The investment  adviser  did mention equity release but only if the need arose in 
relation to future care needs.
Ref: DRN31242622There is no evidence of a meeting  after the one on 7 June 2005 but on 4 July 2005  
the investment  adviser wrote and mentioned  equity release for IHT mitigation for the 
first time.
The investment  adviser  wrote  on 28 July 2005,  and the letter included  calculations 
showing how Mrs Cs estate would be better off if she took out the ERM.
I think the letter of 28 July 2005  is unclear because:
oThe letter calculates  the estate will be better off by £61,632  using the ERM 
but this is on the basis  Mrs C wouldve done nothing if she didnt take out the 
ERM and there  was no reason for the investment  adviser  to think she would 
do nothing.
oThe investment  adviser  should  have compared the position of the estate with 
the ERM with its position  if Mrs C had invested £50,000 in the DGT using 
existing money in line with the advice in June 2005.
oThe calculation is also misleading because it takes no account  of the income  
coming back into the estate which potentially would just add to the estate  and 
increase IHT - as a result of the ERM Mrs C had additional income of £7,500 
each year, in addition  to the £3,600 she already had above  outgoings.
There was some discussion  of Mrs C selling her shares as the adviser refers to this 
and carried out a CGT calculation, and there  was some benefit to her selling her 
shares and investing the proceeds in the DGT  rather than use an ERM.
Selling shares to the value of £97,500  and investing this in the DGT rather  that use 
the ERM would have taken the same amount of money out of her estate initially  and 
left her with the income from the shares.
The potential CGT liability  from sale of the shares was around £25,000 based on the 
investment advisers calculations, but this is based on her selling all her shares not 
£97,500 worth.
Given she didnt need to sell all her shares and could have carried  out the sale over 
two tax tears she could  have  sold the shares  without incurring a significant CGT 
liability.
She appears to have  sold her shares  only a few months later,  in October  2006,  in 
any event so is unlikely  to have been put off selling the shares and putting them  in 
the DGT because of CGT.
The letter of 28 July 2005 refers to the investment adviser discussing the figures  in 
greater detail, which given the significant change in advice from June 2005 would be 
expected  but there is no evidence a further  meeting took place.
The information in the investment advisers  letter  of 22 August 2005 wasnt  fair or 
clear. He emphasised  the IHT saving using the ERM putting  the figure of £60,000 as 
a minimum saving  in bold when this figure was misleading.
The letter only referred  to the disadvantages  of the ERM on page  12 and the 
warnings being vague and insufficient.
Lighthouse  have accepted that the impact of the ERM  was only referred to in general 
terms and didnt  show how the rolled-up interest  could impact  her estate.
Lighthouse  has misunderstood the impact of the rolled-up interest  because  it has 
said the increase  in the property value  was more than the interest  when this isnt the 
case.
The reasons  set out in the letter of 22 August 2005 for why Mrs C didnt use her 
preferred option of gifting for IHT mitigation dont make  much sense because:
oShe didnt need an additional £7,500  in income.
oInvesting share sale proceeds  instead of using  the ERM was closer  to her 
preferred option of gifting.
Ref: DRN31242623oRetaining liquid  assets to pay for future  care needs makes  little sense given 
the advice to use an ERM for this if necessary, which would have made more 
sense.
The advice is further confused as the investment adviser appears to have made an 
application for a whole-of-life policy for £357,000  which was another way of providing  
IHT cover  although the cover was too much. But if a WOL policy  was taken out this 
reinforces the view the ERM was unsuitable.
I said that Lighthouse should  pay the interest  on the ERM of £143,001 less the income from 
the shares to the value of £97,500 I thought Mrs C should have been advised  to sell and 
invest in the DGT  up to sale of the shares in October 2006 - which I calculated at £1,643. I 
also said that Lighthouse should pay simple interest at 8% on the mortgage interest from the 
date this was paid to the date of settlement and pay £1,000 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information. The 
solicitors for Mrs C responded and agreed with the provisional decision, including my 
calculation for the income from the shares  to be deducted from the mortgage interest 
redress. 
Lighthouse responded  and asked for further evidence the shares were sold in 2006, how 
much for and that the proceeds were gifted to the children,  invested  or spent. It said that the 
loss calculation should include the sale of the shares as the children have had the benefit of 
these over the past 14 years.
Lighthouse said that if Mrs C had invested £97,500 in the DGT from her existing money 
rather than taken out the ERM she wouldnt have  been able to gift the money to her children 
and that this shows the relevance to the loss. It also said that Mrs C has benefitted from the 
DGT advice as she survived  seven  years, so the money invested in the DGT is outside of 
her estate for IHT purposes.  It said Mrs C and her family have also benefitted  from the 
investment growth.  It questioned why account  hadnt been taken of; the returns on the funds 
received by the children;  the IHT savings;  the potential investment growth.
The solicitors for Mrs C pointed out that Lighthouse had provided evidence itself that the 
shares had been  sold.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lighthouse has made several points about the redress set out in my provisional decision 
which I have taken  into account and will comment on. However, it has provided no 
substantive new argument that the advice to take out the ERM was suitable, it has simply 
said it doesnt agree with my findings  that the advice  was unsuitable. In the circumstances I 
have seen no evidence  that would lead me to change my finding that the advice to take out 
the ERM was unsuitable.
Lighthouse asked for further information about  the sale of sale of shares by Mrs C. The 
solicitors have pointed  out that it already had information the shares were sold in 2006 and I 
am satisfied  it is more likely than not this is what happened. Lighthouse has asked for further 
evidence as to what happened to the share  sale proceeds. The solicitors  have said - and I 
Ref: DRN31242624accept what they have said - that Mrs C only used the adviser from Lighthouse. Given  it 
hasnt provided  any evidence Mrs C reinvested any of the proceeds it is more likely than not 
she didnt do so. The solicitors have also said the children have confirmed  they received gifts 
from Mrs C after the sale of the shares. In the circumstances,  it is more  likely than not Mrs C 
gifted a large part of the proceeds to her children.
Lighthouse has suggested various matters should have been taken into account  by me in 
terms of redress.  
Firstly, it has suggested  returns made by the children when the proceeds from the share  sale 
were gifted to them  should be taken into account.  I dont know if the children did invest  the 
money that was gifted  to them or simply spent  it, but I dont think this is something I need  to 
know. Whilst it is appropriate  to deduct the return Mrs C received from the shares  up to the 
point of sale  as the redress I have set out requires - the same  doesnt apply to any returns  
her children may have  received from investments they made after they were gifted money.
The children  are not party to this complaint, and any returns they received  is a benefit to 
them not Mrs C  the complainant. In the circumstances Im not persuaded it would be 
appropriate to deduct returns Mrs C has not had the benefit of from the redress payable  to 
her. Even if that wasnt the case, Im not satisfied it would be appropriate or reasonable to 
delve into the finances of the children to try and work out what  they had done  with the money 
gifted to them and whether this had provided  a return  even if they were willing to provide 
such information to me.
Secondly, Lighthouse has said that Mrs C has benefitted from the advice because the 
money invested in the DGT is outside of her estate  for IHT purposes.  But if she had invested 
the same  amount by selling her shares  and investing the proceeds  in the DGT  she would 
have had the same benefit in any event. 
There was some potential  additional  IHT benefit  at the time of advice resulting from her 
having to repay the mortgage  and interest. But as matters stand her whole estate is now 
likely to be free of IHT as a result of the increase to the threshold to £325,000 and the ability 
to transfer and use her late husbands unused nil-rate band in addition to her own.  Even if 
that wasnt the case, she has ongoing  care needs which are likely to reduce her estate in 
any event. In the circumstances there are no identifiable IHT savings  resulting  from the 
advice.
Thirdly, Lighthouse has asked why account  hasnt been taken of the investment growth  on 
the DGT. The answer to that is that I have found  Mrs C would have invested the same 
amount if she had used  the shares to invest  so her investment growth would  have been  
the same.
Finally, Lighthouse has suggested that the interest award at 8% is punitive.  It should be 
aware that this is the rate we normally apply where  a loss has crystalized, and I can see no 
reason to depart from this. It isnt based  on what return might be achieved if the money was 
invested.
What Lighthouse should do to put things right.
If Mrs C hadnt  been  advised to take out the ERM she wouldnt  have  had a mortgage and 
been liable  for the interest payable  on that mortgage. The starting point for redress is 
therefore repayment of the mortgage interest  on the ERM amounting  to £143,001. 
Ref: DRN31242625If Mrs C had sold her shares to the value of £97,500 to invest in the DGT she would not have 
had the benefit of the income  from those shares,  so it is appropriate  that this income  be 
deducted from the mortgage interest.  
To simplify  matters I have carried out my own calculations regarding  this on the basis  Mrs C 
had the benefit of these  shares between  March 2006 and October  2006.  I have taken  
account of the likely number of shares  Mrs C wouldve had to sell to achieve £97,500 based 
on an exchange rate for Canadian  Dollars  (CD)  and GBP  of around 0.5CD and the dividends  
payable in April 2006 and July 2006.
Based on what I have looked at the amount of income  Mrs C wouldve received between  
March 2006 and October 2006 on shares  sold to the value of £97,500  would have been 
around £1,643.  I am not saying this is the amount Mrs C did receive, but I think  it is 
reasonable to use this figure to keep  things simple, subject to either  party providing evidence  
the figure is likely  to be significantly different from what I have calculated.
I also think Lighthouse  should pay simple interest of 8% per annum on the mortgage  interest  
payment of £143,001, from the date this was paid by Mrs C to the date of settlement - on the 
basis that this is money that she would otherwise have had available  to her. 
In addition, Lighthouse also must pay £1,000  for the distress and inconvenience arising from 
its unsuitable advice.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained.  Lighthouse Advisory  Services  
Limited must  pay the redress  I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf  of 
Mrs C to accept  or reject  my decision before  15 March 2021.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31242626COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C complains, with the help of her solicitors, that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (previously 
Temple Financial  Planning  Limited) gave her unsuitable  advice  to take out an Equity Release 
Mortgage (ERM) and invest  in a Discounted Gift Trust (DGT).
background 
Mrs C contacted an investment adviser for Lighthouse in 2004 because she was due to receive  an 
inheritance. The investment adviser wrote to her in July 2004 and noted that she was going to split 
the inheritance  five ways  - between her and her four children. He also noted  she intended  to make 
house improvements and visit family  abroad with some of the money from her portion  of the 
inheritance. He advised her to invest the balance - which at that time wasnt known - in a DGT. He 
asked Mrs C to come back to him when  she knew how much was available  for this.
Mrs C came back to the adviser in 2005 confirming she had £20,000 left to invest. She met with the 
adviser on 7 June 2005  and he wrote to her after the meeting setting out his advice that she invest 
£50,000 in a DGT so that she could obtain some additional  income whilst mitigating her potential IHT 
liability. This included the proceeds from three underperforming with-profit bonds the adviser thought 
she should cash in. However, he noted that at the time she didnt want  to lose control  of her money so 
didnt want to use a DGT.
His advice changed soon afterwards as shown in a further letter sent to Mrs C in August 2005 in 
which he set out his advice  that Mrs C invest a total of £150,000 in a DGT. The increase in the 
amount to be invested was from equity release  which  the investment adviser recommended  for IHT 
mitigation.
Mrs C was referred by the investment adviser  to a colleague to provide advice about  the equity 
release who advised that she take out £97,500 by way of an ERM - being  the maximum she could 
take out. She then invested  £150,000 in the DGT in accordance with the advice  she had been given 
by the investment adviser. 
Lighthouse provided a final response  to the complaint in which it said that both the advice  about the 
ERM and the advice about the DGT  was suitable and that Mrs C was aware of the terms of the ERM, 
including that interest would accrue  for the lifetime of the loan,  so that she was in an informed 
position. It said that the DGT  was appropriate as it provided an immediate saving on IHT and a further 
potential savings if she survived seven years, together with providing  her with an income  for life.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  that the advice  to invest  in the DGT 
was suitable given Mrs Cs potential  IHT liability.  But he didnt think she needed to borrow to invest  in 
the DGT  so thought the advice to take out the ERM was unsuitable. He said that if Mrs C had used 
existing capital to invest in the DGT she wouldve been left with only around £79,000 in her estate that 
would be subject to IHT - an IHT liability of only around £29,000. He also set out other options Mrs C 
couldve used to further reduce her potential IHT liability  and noted that the IHT threshold was likely to 
rise in the future  and thought this was something the investment adviser hadnt taken  account of.
The investigator said Lighthouse should pay redress  based  on repayment of the interest on the ERM 
less the amount Mrs C made on the money she kept that wouldve  been paid into the DGT if she had 
been properly advised.
Lighthouse didnt agree  with the investigator. It noted  his agreement that Mrs C wanted IHT advice 
and to increase her income and that the DGT was suitable. It pointed  out that the suitability  report  
explained about the compound interest and that Mrs C signed  the borrower  confirmation form 
confirming she understood the implications  of equity release. Lighthouse also said that Mrs C was 
Ref: DRN31242627advised to consult  with solicitors and wouldve  received  annual statements showing the amount owing 
increasing year on year. 
Lighthouse said that the possibility of using her existing  funds to fund the DGT had been considered 
by the adviser  and is referred to in the suitability report. It said the reason  Mrs C didnt  want to do this 
was because she wanted  to maintain her current level of income and wanted to retain  liquid assets to 
fund fees for long term care  which is shown in the fact find as her second highest priority.  
It didnt agree that Mrs C had enough to fund the DGT  without the ERM as she wanted to retain  
£54,000 of money held on deposit  as an emergency fund and so only had around £70,000 available 
to invest  leaving a shortfall  of £80,000. It said that Mrs C wouldve had a Capital  Gains  Tax (CGT) 
liability if she cashed in more  than £8,492 of her Royal Bank  of Canada shares. Lighthouse also said 
that other options  for reducing IHT were discussed.
Lighthouse acknowledged  that the suitability  report described the effects  of the equity release to the 
clients estate only in general terms and didnt  provide a comparison of the impact of rolled up interest 
and the effect this would have on Mrs Cs assets and the resultant fund available to her family. 
It said Mrs C had sold the house in 2019 for £325,000 as against its value of £263,800  in 2005 an 
increase of 23.2%  which it said was substantially  more than the interest charged on the loan. It said 
the DGT  had met its objective as Mrs C has made an IHT saving of about £60,000. It said there have 
only been four increases  in the IHT threshold since 2005 and it has been the same figure  for around 
11 years and that advisers can only advise  on what is known at the time.
Lighthouse did make an offer totalling just over £25,000 to include the £1,000 trouble and upset 
award the investigator had made.  However, this wasnt accepted by Mrs C.
The solicitors for Mrs C also didnt agree  with the investigator. They provided evidence that Mrs C had 
sold most of her Royal Bank of Canada shares in 2006. They said that as Mrs C had no material  
investments over the period in question (2006 -2019)  her loss from having  taken out the ERM was the 
interest paid on the ERM of £143,001. 
The solicitors also argued that the DGT was unsuitable for various  reasons  but in the main because  
she didnt need the income but did have a potential need for the capital  that was invested to fund 
future care needs.  They  said redress  wasnt a financial loss as such  but the lack of access to that 
capital. They acknowledge the DGT cant be unwound but argued that Lighthouse should pay the 
difference between the interest payable  for the ERM of £143,001  and the maximum we were able to 
award of £150,000 in compensation  for Mrs C not being able to access her funds when she needed 
to.
The investigator provided  a response  to the parties in which he stood by his findings  that the ERM 
was unsuitable but the DGT was suitable. However, although he thought redress should include 
deducting the return Mrs C made on her shares, he thought the period over which this should  be 
calculated should be March 2006 and October 2006 - when most of the shares were  sold  rather 
than between  March 2006 and repayment of the ERM in 2019 as he had originally stated.
Lighthouse provided a further  response largely  repeating points  it had made previously about the 
suitability of both the ERM and DGT.  It noted that the investigator hadnt commented on the CGT  
liability arising if Mrs C cashed in her shares to fund the DGT. 
The solicitors responded and asked for a calculation  to be provided  showing what redress would be 
payable to Mrs C based on the investigators  revised redress.
As the parties didnt agree  with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN31242628Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having taken  account of all the information  the parties have provided Im not satisfied that the advice 
to take equity  release and to invest  the proceeds in the DGT was suitable. 
Im not persuaded  that Mrs Cs finances at the time of advice in 2005 were such  that she needed  
equity release to provide an additional income  or for capital expenditure. And although there was a 
potential IHT saving using the ERM Im not satisfied it was suitable just for that purpose, given the risk 
of making the estate worse  off and where  there were  other options that Mrs C could use to help 
reduce her IHT. 
It is also far from clear  how the adviser  ended up advising Mrs C to use equity release for IHT 
mitigation given there is nothing to indicate this was discussed in the meeting on 7 June 2005  - the 
only meeting  there  is evidence took place.
The advice set out in the suitability letter sent after the meeting in June 2005 was to invest £50,000 in 
a DGT  from money Mrs C already had available.  This showed that she wouldve had additional  
monthly income of £187.50  (£2,250  each year). This level of additional  income seems reasonable in 
the circumstances, given she already  had £300  available,  after outgoings, each month (£3,600 each 
year) from her existing income  as shown in the fact find. It seems to me this would allow Mrs C to 
potentially make  use of the annual £3000 IHT gift allowance.
There was no suggestion  in June 2005 that she needed  to invest more than £50,000 because  she 
needed more additional  income.  There was mention of equity release, but this was referred to as 
something Mrs C could  do if the need arose in the future,  so that she could purchase a care annuity to 
help pay for long-term care costs. It had nothing to do with IHT mitigation.  
I have seen no evidence of a subsequent meeting between Mrs C and the investment adviser. But on 
4 July 2005 the adviser wrote to Mrs C about various matters including, for the first time,  using  equity 
release for IHT mitigation.  The letter states that such an arrangement would  not only save  IHT but 
would provide  additional  income which would be important if she sold the shares  as these would  no 
longer provide an income. 
In that letter the investment adviser also refers to getting a valuation of Mrs Cs shares so he could 
carry out a CGT calculation - which he said he thought would be considerably less than the £40,000 
IHT that would be payable on them.
The letter of 4 July 2005  was followed  by a further letter from the investment adviser  on 28 July 2005 
in which he set out the amount that Mrs Cs family  would receive on her death with the ERM  as 
against what  she would  get without  it. I think this letter  is unclear for a couple of reasons.
Firstly, the calculation  sets out Mrs Hs IHT saving  if she takes out the ERM and compares this to her 
position if she did nothing  at all and states  there is a saving of £61,632. But Im not satisfied this is the 
right comparison, as there is nothing to suggest that Mrs C wouldve  done nothing  at all if she hadnt 
taken out the ERM. 
The original advice of June 2005 was to invest £50,000 through a DGT.  There  was no reason for the 
investment adviser to think at the time of writing on 28 July 2005 that Mrs C wouldnt have been 
willing to invest at least  the amount he originally advised her to invest of around £50,000 from her 
existing funds  - especially given his calculation  assumes she would invest that amount if she took out 
the ERM anyway.
In the circumstances the investment adviser  shouldve calculated any benefit of using  equity release 
by comparing the potential IHT payable based on investing the original amount of £50,000, as per his 
original advice  to Mrs C, as against the position with her investing both this money  and the money  
Ref: DRN31242629from the ERM. If he had done so this wouldve shown a saving of only £41,632 from using the ERM, 
not the £61,632  he set out to Mrs C. 
Secondly, the letter  shows  a balance payable to the family of £582,651 with the ERM, as against 
£420,099 without. This latter  figure would obviously have been  higher if the investment adviser had 
done the comparison that I have said he shouldve done. But more importantly, whether  the family 
would be better off overall with the ERM is totally dependent on Mrs Cs house increasing in value, to 
offset the accruing interest on the ERM. 
The main purpose  of IHT mitigation  is to try and ensure that your family (or other beneficiaries)  get as 
much as possible  from your estate when you die. In the circumstances, where the recommendation put 
forward to achieve this has the potential to make the family worse  off I think  it is reasonable to expect 
this to be specifically drawn to the clients attention.
Instead the investment adviser  highlights  the IHT saving in bold and then goes on to simply  say that the 
figures are dependent on Mrs C living seven years and the increase in property value being  equal  to the 
interest on the ERM. He doesnt say that if the increase in property value doesnt keep pace with the 
interest Mrs Cs family could be worse off because  of the ERM.
I also think  his figure for the IHT saving  is potentially misleading for another reason, because it takes 
no account of the additional income  generated by the DGT. The advice  from the investment adviser 
meant that Mrs C had an additional £7,500 each year on top of the £3,600 she already had available 
after deduction of outgoings. There is nothing to suggest that Mrs C needed over £11,000 after 
outgoings each year, and any money she didnt  spend or gift by way of the annual IHT allowance 
would simply  be added back into her estate and been subject to IHT. 
There was clearly some  discussion about Mrs C selling  her shares and the proceeds going  outside of 
Mrs Cs estate, given the investment adviser  referred to a valuation for CGT purposes in his letter  of 4 
July 2005 and carried out a calculation dated 29 July 2005. The investment  adviser also made 
reference to the importance of the additional income from the ERM  if she sold her shares. But he 
made no suggestion that if Mrs C was going to sell her shares the proceeds could  then be reinvested 
in the DGT so that she didnt  lose any income. 
There were  various benefits of her selling shares to invest in the DGT. Firstly, this wouldve  reduced 
her overall  estate by the value sold and invested. Secondly,  as the shares were income producing  her 
overall additional  income from investing in the DGT  if she invested the same amount  would be 
less, so there would be less risk of her simply adding money back  into her estate through her income.
If Mrs C had done this, she wouldve reduced her estate by the amount  invested in the DGT. So, if 
she had sold shares to the same value as the ERM (£97,500) and put the proceeds into the DGT this 
would no longer  have formed part of her estate. In terms of IHT the effect would  be the same as using 
the ERM, as she would have  taken the same amount out of her estate.  
There was obviously a potential CGT liability  on her selling shares  as indicated in the letter  of 5 July 
2005. The advisers calculation of 29 July 2005  shows gains  chargeable to CGT on the full 
shareholding were  £62,844 after deduction  of the CGT  allowance of £8,500. On that basis  Mrs Cs 
CGT wouldve  been about £25,000 by my calculations.  
However, this figure is based on her selling all her shares when she only needed to sell shares  to the 
value of £97,500. So, her chargeable gains  wouldve  been about a third less than the advisers  
calculation. She could also have made the sale over two tax years, which  wouldve further 
significantly reduced  the tax payable  given she didnt  invest until March  2006, just before the start of 
a new tax year and couldve  delayed her investment by a month.
In the circumstances it seems to me she couldve sold her shares to provide the lump  sum she 
needed to invest in the DGT without incurring  a significant  CGT liability. It also appears that she did 
sell most  of her shares in October 2006, only a few months later, and will have incurred  a CGT liability  
Ref: DRN312426210at that time.  So, it is unlikely  she wouldve been put off from selling shares to invest in the DGT 
because of any CGT  liability if the investment adviser had recommended this. 
The letter of 28 July 2005 states that the investment adviser would discuss the figures in greater detail 
when he next met with Mrs C. Given the significant change in advice from June 2005 and the 
importance of Mrs C properly understanding the benefits and downsides of using equity release for 
IHT mitigation such a meeting shouldve  taken place. However, I have  been provided with no 
evidence of a further meeting.
The investment advisers subsequent letter of 22 August 2005  - in which the he set out his 
recommendation that Mrs C mitigate  her potential  IHT liability by taking out an ERM  and investing this 
in the DGT - refers  only to the meeting in June 2005, not some later meeting. 
In that letter the investment adviser states that he is referring Mrs C to a mortgage adviser colleague 
regarding the advice to invest around £100,000 by way of equity release.  But the mortgage adviser  had 
already met with Mrs C by this time, as shown by his suitability letter  of 11 August 2005.  This records that 
Mrs Cs prime reason  for raising money from the equity in her property  is to mitigate IHT and the 
mortgage adviser  advises her to take the maximum amount possible for this purpose - which was 
£97,500 based on 39% of the value  of her house.  
Turning back to the investment  advisers  letter of 22 August 2005 I dont think  the information 
provided in the letter was fair or clear. As with the letter of 28 July 2005  the investment adviser 
emphasised the IHT saving by putting in bold the figure of £60,000,  which he said would be the 
minimum saving. I have  already explained why I consider  this figure is misleading.  The letter also 
clearly indicates that Mrs Cs estate would be better off by at least this amount by using the words 
minimum saving.
The investment adviser did set out a list of disadvantages of his advice - on page 12 of his letter. This 
included a statement that if Mrs C didnt spend or gift the income it would accumulate in her estate 
and reduce the effectiveness. I think  this warning  is vague and insufficient when  compared to the 
emphasis put on the minimum savings  she would make. As with the letter  of 28 July 2005, there is 
no warning that Mrs Cs family could be significantly worse off because  of the ERM if house prices 
didnt keep pace with the interest.  
Lighthouse have accepted  that the impact of the ERM was only referred  to in general terms in the 
suitability letter and that this didnt provide any information that showed  how the rolled-up interest 
could impact of Mrs Cs estate. It has referred to the Key Facts illustration  showing the effect of 
compound interest  and the requirement  that Mrs C take legal advice. However, Im not persuaded that 
these would necessarily have made Mrs C aware that the IT mitigation strategy of the investment 
adviser could make her family  significantly  worse  off, contrary to her intention.
Given the significance of taking out the ERM I dont think it is good enough  to talk about its impact in 
general terms. Mrs C had no need for the income  from investment of the ERM. The main  purpose of 
the ERM, as recorded by the mortgage adviser, was to reduce her IHT. This was so she could ensure  
her family got as much  as possible from her estate.  Given this she shouldve been provided with clear 
information about the risk that her family  could be worse off as a result of the advice, and Im not 
persuaded she was.
The way the investment provider explained matters to Mrs C in the correspondence  gave a clear 
impression that her estate would benefit as a result of the advice  to take out the ERM and invest  in the 
DGT and equal emphasis  was clearly  not given  about the potential  downside.
I think  it is also worth  noting at this point that Lighthouse appears to have  misunderstood the impact of 
the rolled up-interest  as against the increase in value  of the property.  It has said the amount that Mrs 
Cs property  increased by between 2005 and when it was sold in 2019 was 23.3% and that this was 
substantially more than the interest charged on the loan. 
Ref: DRN312426211However, the figure of 23.3% is the total increase in the value of property over the whole  period, not 
the annual increase. If this is averaged over the 14 years in question it amounts  to only a 1.66% 
increase in value each year. The interest payable  on the ERM over the same  period was 6.64% 
compounded every  year.  So, the amount  of interest accrued far outweighs  the increase in value in her 
property both in monetary terms and in percentage terms.
I think  there are further issues with the advice the investment adviser  provided in his letter. It states  
that Mrs Cs preferred method of IHT mitigation is to transfer her liquid assets outside of her estate by 
way of gift. 
The letter goes on to state that Mrs C wanted to keep the income from her portfolio and increase this 
if possible and have enough  liquid funds available in addition  to income should  she need to fund long 
term care in the future. These are the reasons put forward  for why she didnt  use her preferred  option 
of gifting her money.  But Im not persuaded these  reasons make much sense  in the circumstances.   
Firstly, Mrs C didnt need an additional £7,500 in income, as I have already found.  She couldve sold 
her shares  and invested the proceeds in the DGT to ensure she didnt  lose any income  whilst 
investing around £50,000  from her existing  funds to provide the additional  income she did need. I 
acknowledge that investing the share sale proceeds in the DGT wouldnt be an immediate  gift as 
such, but her family would still have  the benefit on her death. It is certainly closer to her preferred 
option for IHT mitigation  than what the investment  adviser  recommended.
Secondly, I cant see why there was such focus on her retaining liquid assets to pay for possible long-
term care needs in the future. The investment adviser  had referred to her using  equity release  for that 
purpose in his letter  of June 2005. He also repeats this in the letter  of August 2005. This was despite 
advising Mrs C at the same time to use equity  release  to invest in the DGT, which significantly  limited 
any future ability she had to use equity release to fund care needs.
If Mrs C was going to take out equity release it wouldve made more sense  to do so to purchase a 
care annuity  if the need arose at some point in the future rather  than hold on to liquid assets  to pay for 
potential care needs and use equity release to invest in the DGT.  I say this for two reasons. 
Firstly, the percentage  amount she could borrow against the value  of the house increased by 1% every 
year to a maximum of 55% (with the provider  she was advised to use). So, she could  get a greater  
proportion of her equity  if she took out equity release in the future  at the point she needed to pay for long-
term care.  Its also likely that the house would  increase in value to some extent so the larger percentage 
would also be based on a larger amount of equity. 
Secondly, she would only be paying interest on the equity release at some future  date - at the time 
she needed  long-term care if the need arose  rather than from 2005.  I have seen nothing that 
explains why the adviser moved from suggesting  equity release  be used for future  care needs to 
advise that this be used for IHT mitigation instead.
There is one further matter  which confuses the overall picture of what  happened in 2005 and calls into 
question the advice Mrs C was given. I have seen  an application  for a whole-of-life policy completed 
in October 2005 and sent by the investment adviser  to the life company on 25 October 2005. This 
refers to Mrs C selling shares to the value of £8,500 every year to cover the premium.  The death  
benefit on the application is £357,000. 
Using a life assurance  policy  is an alternative way of mitigating potential IHT which  is referred  to by 
the investment  adviser in his suitability  letter of 22 August  2005,  but not what  the adviser 
recommended.
I have seen no evidence that shows why the investment adviser ended  up making an application for 
life cover for Mrs C only a couple of months after his suitability letter  of August 2005.  As with the 
change in advice between his June 2005 suitability  letter and his August 2005 suitability  letter, there 
seems to be a lack of evidence which shows the basis of any subsequent advice  about this. 
Ref: DRN312426212I dont know why the investment  adviser put in an application  for the policy on 25 October  2005  the 
day before  Mrs C signed the Borrower Confirmation of Acceptance of Offer  of the ERM. The life policy  
provided far in excess  of the cover she needed for her potential IHT liability.  If Mrs C was advised to 
take out this cover for IHT mitigation that advice appears to have also been  unsuitable given the 
amount of cover.
From the information I have  seen this first application wasnt accepted and application  was sent to 
another life company in January 2006. It isnt clear from the information  I have seen,  whether the 
policy was incepted and if it was whether it was maintained. But I have seen an email  from Mrs C 
dated in March  2006  in which she refers to selling  shares to the value of £8,500 - this being the 
premium amount the investment adviser used to get quotes for cover from various life companies. 
This suggests that a policy may have been taken out. If it was it reinforces my view that the ERM  was 
unsuitable, as the life cover  wouldve paid the IHT liability  - although  my finding  that the ERM  was 
unsuitable isnt dependent  on this. 
In summary Im not persuaded that Mrs C was given  clear, fair and not-misleading information about 
the ERM so she could make  an informed decision whether  this was something she wanted  to take out 
for IHT mitigation. Im not satisfied it was a suitable recommendation based on Mrs Cs needs and 
circumstances. 
Turning to the DGT  itself, I am not persuaded that Mrs C shouldnt have been advised  to invest in the 
DGT. She did have a potential IHT liability and using a DGT to help mitigate IHT is a recognised way 
of doing this. It is also recorded that she did want some additional income,  although as I have made  
clear I dont think she needed as much as she got as a result  of the advice she received.  Mrs C may 
have been able to mitigate her IHT to some extent in other  ways,  but this doesnt  make the DGT 
unsuitable.
What Lighthouse should do to put things right.
If Mrs C hadnt been advised to take out the ERM she wouldnt have had a mortgage and been liable 
for the interest payable on that mortgage. The starting point for redress is therefore repayment of the 
interest on the ERM amounting to £143,001. 
If Mrs C had sold her shares  to the value of £97,500 to invest  in the DGT she would not have had the 
benefit of the income from those shares, so it is appropriate that this income be deducted  from the 
mortgage interest. 
To simplify  matters I have carried  out my own calculations regarding this on the basis Mrs C had the 
benefit of these  shares between March 2006 and October 2006. I have taken account  of the likely  
number of shares Mrs C wouldve had to sell to achieve £97,500 based on an exchange  rate for 
Canadian Dollars (CD) and GBP of around 0.5CD and the dividends payable  in April 2006 and July 
2006.
Based on what I have  looked at the amount of income Mrs C wouldve received between March 2006 
and October  2006 on shares sold to the value of £97,500 would have been around £1,643.  I am not 
saying this is the amount  Mrs C did receive, but I think it is reasonable to use this figure to keep things 
simple, subject to either  party providing  evidence the figure  is likely to be significantly  different from 
what I have calculated.
I also think  Lighthouse should pay simple interest of 8% per annum  on the mortgage interest payment 
of £143,001, from the date this was paid by Mrs C to the date of settlement - on the basis that this is 
money that she would otherwise have had available  to her. 
In addition, Lighthouse  also must  pay £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience arising from its 
unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN312426213my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint for the reasons  I have  explained.  Lighthouse  Advisory Services Limited must  
pay the redress I have set out above.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3124262