K820x#14complaint
Miss C says Bank  of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2004.
Miss C applied for the PPI at a meeting.  
The policy was sold as part of a packaged  protection policy  called a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP policy could be made up of the following elements  a 
PPI policy  (which covered  consumers  for accident,  sickness and unemployment cover), life 
cover and critical illness cover.  
Miss Cs TMMP policy included a PPI policy and critical illness cover. This complaint only 
focuses on the sale of the PPI policy and not critical illness cover.
The PPI policy cost £19.93 per month.  In the event of a successful claim, the monthly benefit 
was £328.81 which could have been  paid for up to 24 months if Miss C couldnt work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss C says she wasnt advised at any point that the policy  was optional.
Halifax hasnt got copies of all the paperwork relating  to the sale. But given  that the sale took 
place 15 years ago, its not surprising that there is limited documentation available.  
So Im not entirely  sure how the PPI was presented to Miss C and I dont know what  was 
said to her at the time. But from my understanding of Halifaxs sales processes at the time, I 
think its likely there would have  been  a discussion about PPI, and Miss C would have been 
given a choice  whether  or not to take it. And I think that this is likely to have happened in 
Miss Cs case. I say this because Miss C chose certain elements of the cover, such  as PPI 
and critical illness, but didnt take out the life cover.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss C. So it had to check it was right for her. Based  
on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  it was. 
Ref: DRN31427432Miss C says that she didnt need  the PPI as she would have been  able to meet  her 
repayments if she was off work through the sick pay she received from her employer or 
though her savings.  
Ive listened to what Miss C has said, and I accept that she had good  employment  benefits. 
But the PPI would have protected Miss Cs mortgage for up to 24 months  per claim, if she 
was unable to work  due to an accident  or sickness  or if she lost her job. Also, it would have 
paid out in addition to any work benefits.  So, all things considered, I think  the cover could 
have provided  a useful benefit.  
I appreciate Miss C has said she had savings  she could have used to meet her repayments. 
But the PPI meant she wouldnt have had to use her savings if she was unable to work  for a 
lengthy period  and they could have remained intact  for other  things. So I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable or made Halifaxs recommendation unreasonable.  
Miss C also says her family would have been  able to help her meet  the repayments if she wasnt  
able to. I dont  doubt  that they would have wanted to help Miss C. But their circumstances may 
have changed  and they might not have been  able to help when she needed it. 
Insurance is there to protect against  the unexpected. The mortgage was in Miss Cs name  only  
so she was solely responsible for making  the mortgage repayments.  A mortgage is a large 
financial commitment and the consequences  of missing repayments are very serious,  so I think  its 
possible Miss C would have thought  the cover provided some useful security that her home wasnt  
at risk.
Halifax also had to make  sure Miss C got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. Its possible the information Halifax gave  Miss C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. For example I cant be sure how clearly the cost of the PPI policy was 
explained. But I havent seen anything to suggest  that the PPI was unaffordable or 
unsuitable in Miss Cs circumstances. And even if everything had been explained clearly, I 
think its likely that she still would have  bought  it. I say this because it looks  like the policy  
could have been useful to her, as I explained above.
Its also possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover such as pre-
existing medical conditions for example . But Miss C doesnt appear to have been  affected by 
any of those things,  so I dont think more information about this would have  changed her 
mind. 
 
Ive taken into account Miss Cs comments in response to our adjudicator  about  the sale, 
and her circumstances  at the time.  But, for the reasons given above, these points dont 
change my conclusion.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Miss C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Miss C back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand that Miss C had a concern about what Halifax had offered and how it had been  
worked out. I can see that our adjudicator recently explained to Miss C the offer of 
compensation. Miss C responded that she appreciated the clarification on that particular 
point. 
So, Halifax,  if it hasnt done so already, should make arrangements to pay Miss C now Ive 
issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN31427433my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3142743