K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the performance  of his pension plan following the advice  of Brewin 
Dolphin Limited (Brewin Dolphin) to transfer to its discretionary  fund manager  (DFM) service. 
He says its portfolio  has performed poorly when compared to other  funds of a similar risk 
profile.  
background
In March 2014 Mr H met with Brewin Dolphin  to discuss investment options for his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  and ISA. Following the meeting Brewin Dolphin wrote  to 
Mr H to confirm  its recommendation  to keep the SIPP with the existing provider, but because  
it was agreed that the existing funds had performed  comparatively poorly , it recommended 
moving the investment of the SIPP from those funds and appointing Brewin Dolphin  as a 
DFM. 
In January 2015 Mr H completed the relevant forms to appoint Brewin Dolphin as the DFM  
for his SIPP.  At that time his attitude to risk was confirmed as high medium  risk tolerance. 
The SIPPs  three existing  funds were liquidated  and the money transferred to Brewin 
Dolphin on 8 April 2015. The SIPP was valued at around £235,000.
In 2016 and 2017 Mr H had some  meetings and considerable email communication with 
Brewin Dolphin about the portfolios underlying  investment  performance. But by 
5 January 2018 the combined  value of the SIPP and ISA was £327,022  which Mr H said 
was a return of 6.91%  since hed appointed  Brewin Dolphin as DFM. So because  he was 
unhappy with the performance of his pension Mr H complained in March 2018.
He felt that had he left his SIPP where it was  or invested elsewhere  it would have  
performed better. He said that because a higher risk profile had been agreed and investment 
markets had been generally positive  he would have expected to see greater growth  
especially as Brewin Dolphin confirmed his previous funds had performed poorly, and had 
indicated the DFM  service would surpass  their performance. 
Mr H said he wanted Brewin Dolphin to conduct a full analysis of his portfolio, compensate  
him for any losses against the funds he was previously invested in, refund any management 
charges hed paid,  and offer the opportunity to transfer his pension  to a different provider 
with no exit costs. 
Brewin Dolphin didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It explained that the performance of his 
pension should  be looked at over a longer period of time. Brewin Dolphin also explained that 
Mr Hs pension was invested  in line with his risk profile so it had been suitable  advice for 
him. It also stated that it would, as he requested, amend his SIPP to be held on an execution  
only basis. 
But it said this wouldnt be a long term position  and if Mr H wanted to remain with Brewin 
Dolphin he should  revert  back  to a DFM arrangement.  Alternatively it offered him a fee free 
exit should he wish to transfer away. Mr H wasnt happy with that outcome because  he said 
Brewin Dolphin had failed to respond to the majority of his requests so he brought  his 
complaint to us.
One of our adjudicators investigated Mr Hs complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. He 
explained that the recommended term for Mr Hs investment was noted as being 10 years or 
more. But at the time of Mr Hs complaint,  his money  had been  invested  with Brewin  Dolphin 
Ref: DRN37292032for three years. He said he thought investments were usually designed to be held for 5-10 
years and so it wasnt fair to assess performance  over a shorter  time frame.
He also said that, from what  hed seen, the assets within  the SIPP had been allocated 
broadly in line within Mr Hs risk profile.  
Mr H then confirmed that his complaint was only in relation to the performance of his 
investment. But the adjudicator concluded that  although it was unfortunate that Mr Hs 
pension hadnt  performed  as hed hoped  the complaint shouldnt be upheld purely on the 
basis of perceived poor investment performance.
Mr H didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  So the case 
has been passed to me for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators conclusions and for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr H has provided information to demonstrate that his portfolio hasnt performed as well as 
other Brewin Dolphin  published benchmarks,  other similar risk rated  funds or even the funds 
he was previously invested in. Hes also shown the level of charges that have been  applied 
to his portfolio.  And I have some  sympathy  for Mr Hs position and can appreciate  why he 
isnt happy with the performance of his investment  through Brewin  Dolphins DFM  service.  
But, I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions that returns from investments such  as this are 
not guaranteed and the amount invested can fall as well as rise. Thats the very nature  of 
investments as their performance is dependent on many external factors  which cant all be 
controlled by the DFM. 
Mr H has pointed to other  similar rated funds and benchmarks  including the previous funds 
he was invested  in  to show how disappointing  Brewin Dolphins performance has been 
here. However, if a fund manager doesnt exceed  or match  other benchmarks it doesnt 
mean that they have been negligent or acted  wrongly, because the nature of investments  
sometimes mean that the returns are not as hoped for. 
A lack of hoped for performance  alone is not a reason I would generally consider using to 
uphold a complaint  unless that performance was a result of inherent unsuitability. But Mr H 
hasnt said hes not satisfied with Brewin Dolphins advice and hasnt suggested the 
investment wasnt in line with his attitude  to risk. 
So Ive considered the suitability of Brewin Dolphins recommendation and I agree with the 
adjudicator that it did invest  Mr Hs funds in line with his attitude to risk. Ive seen that Mr Hs 
risk profile was determined after a robust  conversation which  established his attitude to risk 
and his capacity  for loss as being  high medium.  This was confirmed in Brewin Dolphins 
suitability report which said that clients in this risk category  are prepared  to have the 
significant majority of their investments in equities in order  to achieve higher returns at the 
expense of greater  risk to their capital. Your portfolio will typically have a substantially  higher 
weighting towards  equities than fixed income  investments and is likely  to have moderate 
market volatility. 
Ref: DRN37292033So based  on the documentary evidence Ive seen  I think the recommendation was suitable 
for Mr Hs situation at the time and I think Brewin  Dolphin  invested  Mr Hs money in line with 
his circumstances  and objectives.
Mr H says Brewin Dolphin told him the DFM portfolio would outperform the funds he held at 
the time of the advice. And he feels that with market conditions  as they were  investing  into 
higher risk areas should  have provided greater returns. He also said he was disappointed 
with the number of trades Brewin Dolphins managers had made to try to increase 
performance.  
Theres no evidence that Brewin  Dolphin  gave  Mr H any guarantees about the returns  he 
could expect. Indeed the suitability report Brewin Dolphin issued stated We generally 
recommend that equity  investments be held for a period of 3-5 years as a minimum and I 
emphasise that you may get back less than you originally  invested. So I think it made  Mr H 
aware that he wasnt guaranteed to earn greater returns. And I wouldnt normally interfere in 
the everyday commercial  decisions made  by a business and its fund managers  thats a 
matter for Brewin Dolphin. Although I would expect it to explain its decisions and strategy, 
which Im satisfied it has done in its email  communications with Mr H and its published 
investment updates. 
Its unfortunate that Mr Hs SIPP portfolio hasnt performed how hed hoped. But although I 
know he would like to Brewin Dolphin to improve its management of the portfolio and to 
make better investment decisions and trades,  I cant safely say Brewin  Dolphin has done 
anything wrong  here and Im not going  to ask it to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3729203