K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) prevented  her from 
accessing her account online.
background
In November 2018 Ms S tried to access her online account with NS&I. Ms S said she tried a 
couple of times to log in as she thought she had mis-typed or given the wrong log in details. 
As she wasnt able to access her account  Ms S said she waited  for NS&I to call her to 
arrange an instant  password re set. When she didnt  get the expected  call she rang the NS&I  
helpline, who told her the account had been suspended since April 2018.
NS&I asked Ms S for information  so it could confirm it was speaking to the right person. The 
information NS&I  checked against was provided by a credit reference agency. The questions 
asked needed  Ms S to give some of her financial details. Ms S was unwilling to give this 
information, as she had concerns about  the security of the information she was asked to 
give.
So, NS&I  sent Ms S a security details  form to complete. She sent this back  but NS&I werent 
able to confirm  the signature on the form as it didnt hold Ms S signature on file for 
comparison. NS&I  sent another form and asked Ms S to get her signature witnessed.
Ms S couldnt understand why it was proving so difficult to get access to her account and 
why NS&I didnt  ask her to answer  the security questions she had provided  the answers to 
on the opening of her account. NS&I said that as the security check had failed, its process 
was to remove all the original security questions as Ms S would need to re-enrol.
Ms S wasnt happy with the service  she had been given and felt it had stopped her from 
adding to her accounts so preventing  her from increasing her chance of winning. Ms S said 
she was also concerned about  getting  access to funds from a bond she has with NS&I  when 
this matures. She asked  us to look at her complaint.
On the basis of the evidence provided,  our investigator said that she didnt think NS&I 
needed to do anything more about  the complaint. She said several  attempts had been  made  
to access Ms S account  with incorrect log in details. In her view,  NS&I were  entitled to ask 
Ms S to reset her security details.
Ms S has asked for an ombudsman to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding
Ms S complaint, Ill explain why.  
I understand Ms S is frustrated by what she thinks was poor customer  service,  as she saw 
what to her was a simple  request for a password re set become quite complicated and 
intrusive. But it isnt my role to suggest  process improvements to NS&I. My role is to 
consider whether NS&I have acted fairly and reasonably in this case.
Ref: DRN38614552Ms S said she didnt know her account had been suspended in April 2018 as she said shed  
been able to log in between April 2018 and November 2018. NS&I  has shown that there  
wasnt any contact from Ms S in April 2018,  which would seem to support her being unaware  
that her account had been suspended. But I havent  seen any evidence that she had 
attempted or been  able to log on between April 2018 and November 2018. Her log in record  
shows during April 2018, five separate attempts were made to log in. 
On 20 April 2018 when  the fifth log in attempt was unsuccessful her password was 
suspended. The next attempt shown was on 26 November  2018 when I can see the 
forgotten password  button was clicked. 
Within a minute of this request being  made NS&I followed  its process  by trying to call Ms S 
to try to re set her password. But the call failed. This was later found to be because the 
telephone number Ms S had added to her account  had been entered with an incorrect  digit. 
So the telephone number  NS&I had on file was incorrect,  so it wasnt able to call and carry 
out the instant  password re set.
I know Ms S thinks the whole situation could have  been avoided if the security questions  that 
had been set up at the time of her application were  asked. But if the correct  telephone 
number had been held by NS&I this is most likely  what would have happened.  And, if the 
password had been reset there wouldnt have been  the need  for NS&I to have  to re-enrol 
her. So, Im satisfied NS&I did try to take reasonable steps  to restore  Ms S to her online 
account. And it was an error with the phone number which prevented this happening in the 
first instance.
Theres a number of ways customers are protected on their accounts  ensuring  they ask 
questions on the phone  to check theyre  speaking to the right person  is one way. And NS&I 
do have to check its speaking to the right person as it has a duty to fully identify its 
customers when dealing  with them.  
Im sorry  to hear Ms S felt uncomfortable with the information she was asked for on the 
phone, when she called the NS&I helpline. I know sharing personal information  can be 
concerning, and Ms S didnt want to have her relationship with NS&I  noted with the credit  
reference agency. Ms S also expressed  concerns  about the security  of the information she 
was being asked to give. Ms S was asked  a number of security  questions to verify  her 
identity. Ms S didnt  want to answer  all the questions, which  was her choice, but this meant 
she didnt pass the security check.  And for Ms S to re gain access to her account NS&I  had 
to find a way to verify that it was dealing  with the right person. 
The process wasnt as smooth as Ms S would have liked as after completing  the security  
details form there was then the need for her to have her signature witnessed. Ideally this 
could have been picked up by NS&I  when it sent out the security  form, so Ms S could have 
gotten her signature  witnessed at the same time. But I do think  NS&I  were entitled to request 
that the signature be witnessed. And it explained it was for security  reasons. 
So, Im satisfied NS&I is entitled to ask Ms S to complete the required process in order  to 
reset her security details and regain access to her account. I dont  think NS&I acted unfairly 
or unreasonably  and the process  is in place to protect customers and itself from any security  
breach, an issue that Ms S is also keenly  aware of.
Ms S has an Investment Guaranteed Growth Bond (IGGB)  held on her account  which  is due 
to mature in June  2020. The IGGB is an online only account and NS&I  said it can only be 
Ref: DRN38614553managed online, something Ms S agreed  to at the point of sale.  Ms S should get notified 
when her bond is due to mature  as a letter will be available  to view in her online  account 
documents. But for Ms S to be able to see this she will need  to gain access to her online 
account. I would expect NS&I to continue to work with Ms S to achieve  this.
Ms S has said the suspending of her account prevented  her from investing further. But there 
are a number of other ways to invest with NS&I  and these options  are still available  to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlines above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3861455