K822xcomplaint
Mrs J complained that Ageas Insurance Limited took too long to deal with her claim  under  
her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs J had an accident which she said wasnt her fault. She said that Ageas took too long to 
deal with her claim, and didnt inform her about  progress, so she had to keep  phoning them. 
She said that because  of their delay, she had a fault claim which remained open. She felt 
that this increased  her premiums on her other motor insurance policies with other insurers.
Ageas apologised but felt that they had kept her updated when they had information to give 
her. Mrs J remained  unhappy and so she brought  her complaint to us. 
The adjudicator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He didnt think  that 
Ageas were  responsible for the premium increases. But he thought that Ageas had failed to 
properly update Mrs J about her claim,  so they should pay her compensation of £100  to 
reflect the trouble and upset that theyd caused. Ageas agreed to the adjudicators 
recommendation. Mrs J didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In about October  2016 Mrs J had an accident involving a foreign driver.  They  recorded  her 
claim as a fault claim while they were dealing with it. Then in about November 2017 Ageas 
resolved her claim. They  told her that theyd settled her claim as a non fault incident, and 
that her no claims discount was unaffected. But in the meantime Mrs J had taken out new 
insurance, and renewed her existing insurance, for other cars with other insurers. She said 
that shed had to pay much  higher  premiums  that before because of the open  fault claim with 
Ageas. She felt that Ageas had taken  too long to deal with her claim and that this was 
unreasonable because the other  driver had admitted liability  at the scene. 
Ageas apologised to Mrs J. They explained  that it took longer than normal  to deal with her 
claim because  the accident  involved a foreign driver and so there was a different system to 
pursue the drivers insurer. Ageas said that the other  insurer  had been slow to respond  and 
to accept liability. So theyd had to instruct solicitors to pursue them.  
But they felt theyd communicated reasonably with Mrs J about this by telling  her early in her 
claim about potential  timescales, and their solicitors had sent her updates  too. They felt that 
any delays had been for reasons outside their control. 
They said that if they didnt keep updating her that was because there was nothing to update  
her with. Ageas didnt  offer her any compensation.
The adjudicator thought  that Ageas could have been  better  at updating  Mrs J, and that their 
actions did cause her inconvenience. In particular  after Ageas referred the case to their 
solicitors, they hadnt explained to her very well why things would take longer than theyd at 
first expected. I agree with the adjudicators view. And I think that even  if there wasnt much 
to update Mrs J with, it would have been better service for them to tell her that. 
Ref: DRN31936122The adjudicator recommended that Ageas pay her compensation  of £100 to reflect her 
inconvenience. I understand  that Ageas agreed  to this and paid her that by cheque. But Mrs 
J did agree  and didnt cash it. 
She still felt that the delay shouldnt have  happened and that its impact on her other car 
premiums had cost her about £2,000.  The adjudicator explained that the system wasnt  
Ageass fault,  and he didnt think that Ageas had taken an unreasonable time given the 
delays that werent  of their making.  It didnt help if the driver had admitted liability at the 
scene, as his insurer  had to do that before Ageas  could make progress.  
And having a fault claim doesnt  necessarily  mean  that anyone thought that Mrs J was at 
fault. Its normal in the insurance industry  for insurers to record  a claim as fault until theyve 
been able to recover their costs from the insurer of the driver responsible for the accident. As 
thats in line with what other insurers  wouldve done in the same  situation, I cant say thats  
unreasonable. 
I also see that the system  for Ageas to recover their costs was more complex as it involved a 
foreign driver. And as thats  not something they have control of, I agree that they shouldnt  
be held responsible for that. And in any event its not our role to punish businesses.  So I 
dont think that Ageas unnecessarily delayed  the settlement of the claim. And even if they 
had resolved it sooner, it still seems unlikely that it would have been before she took out or 
renewed her other policies. I agree with the adjudicators views on this and I dont require 
Ageas to do anything  else in that regard. 
The adjudicator also explained that it wasnt Ageas  who increased  their premiums, it was the 
other insurers. Insurers take a number  of criteria into account in their assessment of risk for 
insuring cars. One of Mrs Js  other insurers didnt reduce their premium  once Mrs J told 
them Ageas had resolved her claim as not her fault. So this suggests that the open fault 
claim wasnt the sole or main reason for the other insurers  to have charged the premium 
they did. As the adjudicator explained,  it is open to Mrs J to take that up with those  other 
insurers if she wishes. 
I can see that the situation  has been  frustrating for Mrs J. But I think that on balance  the 
£100 compensation does  reasonably  reflect  the distress and inconvenience  Ageas caused 
her. And so I dont require them to pay more  than that. However If she is unable to cash  the 
cheque they have already  sent, I expect  Ageas  to send another  for that amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint and I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs J £100 in compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31936123Ageas must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them  Mrs J 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Ageas consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mrs J how much they have taken off, and give Mrs J a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3193612