K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund him for transactions  he 
didnt make.
background
After noticing  his debit card was missing and logging onto his NatWest account, Mr B 
realised there were cash machine withdrawals on his account  he hadnt made. He called 
NatWest and reported his card stolen. There were three cash machine transactions (for 
£201.75, £250 and £40) and seven instances  of retail spend  which  he disputed.
As NatWest werent able to figure out how someone  else could have got hold of Mr Bs PIN, 
they rejected his claim for a refund.  Mr B was unhappy with this outcome  and brought his 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered the evidence, including the fact these transactions  looked out of 
character for Mr B. He, too, couldnt understand how someone could have got hold of Mr Bs 
PIN. Mr B had told us hed not shared this with anybody. Our investigator told Mr B that he 
wasnt going to ask NatWest to refund  him.
Mr B has asked  an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 21 January 2020. I believed  there  were  potential 
scenarios how Mr Bs PIN could have been  obtained  so asked NatWest to reimburse Mr B.
NatWest didnt agree there were ways an unknown  third party could  get hold of Mr Bs PIN 
but had no further evidence  to provide. Mr B accepted the outcome.
I now have all I need to complete  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so and receiving no further 
evidence from either  party, Ive come to the same conclusion as in my provisional decision. 
Theres little need  to amend what I previously wrote.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing thats  had a marked impact on the decision Im making  here. So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both NatWest  and Mr B have  told us. Our investigator also got hold of Mr Bs bank 
statements for his previous bank account. This NatWest account  had only been opened on 
9 November 2018.
Ref: DRN39914332Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 4 October  2019.  I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  are pertinent to this complaint:
The last PIN-based  transaction  Mr B made was at 14:10 on 1 December. He went  
out that evening with his partner  but didnt  use his card. He didnt notice it was 
missing until the following  morning  so doesnt know exactly  when he lost it.
A potential timing is that this was when Mr B took out his wallet  to check  for change 
to pay for a taxi home. The card may have fallen out of the wallet or his pocket at this 
time. I see Mr B also lost a retailer  loyalty card as well. 
There are alternative scenarios: his card could have  been pinched when he was out 
with his partner  earlier (but that wouldnt explain why cash wasnt take out until later).
Mr B called NatWest at 13:19  on 2 December and his card was marked  as stolen at 
13:21.
Mr B had been using  the PIN issued  with this card in November and hadnt changed 
it to something easier to remember.  Hes told us he hadnt written it down. I can also 
see from his statements that hed used his card pretty frequently  since  opening  this 
account. Whilst some of those transactions were  contactless, a fair share needed the 
PIN so its likely hed used the PIN often enough to recall  it without any prompt.
The card was used  to withdraw cash at 03:04,  03:11 and 05:51.  The PIN was 
entered correctly  the first time cash was withdrawn but not the second time. That 
suggests to me the card was used by someone  who didnt actually know  the PIN so 
that it was ingrained.
There were  two transactions  declined at 11:47  and 11:48 for £369 at the same  outlet. 
NatWest cant confirm  why these were declined. I suspect this scared off the person 
who had Mr Bs card as there were no further attempts to use the card until 13:35. By 
this stage as NatWest had cancelled the card, this attempted contactless  transaction  
was also declined.
The use of Mr Bs card is remarkably  similar  to what wed expect if his card was 
being used by a third party trying  to get cash and goods without knowing what the 
account-holder was going to do.
Mr B has explained to us why hed recently changed his account from another bank 
to NatWest. This also was part of his explanation  why he was adamant he wouldnt  
have been recklessly spending  in this 10 hour period so close  to Christmas. I find 
Mr Bs testimony consistent and credible.
Its not my role to decide how someone else could  have  got hold of Mr Bs PIN, made  these 
transactions or to investigate who that potential fraudster may be. But I do have to be 
satisfied that there are scenarios  how this could have taken place. In this case I believe 
there are a few scenarios  how this could have happened.
Taking all the evidence into consideration including how the card was used after it went 
missing, I see no reason to doubt Mr Bs evidence he lost his card (or it was stolen) and 
someone else used  it. That means he didnt make  or authorise these transactions. NatWest  
will need  to refund Mr B for these disputed transactions.
Mr B has told us the distress this caused him at the time. He felt he was treated as if he was 
a liar and a thief.  Taking into account his financial situation at the time, I can see this must 
Ref: DRN39914333have caused him issues. I consider it fair and reasonable that NatWest pay him £150 for the 
inconvenience caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  National Westminster  Bank  Plc to:
Refund £863 to Mr B for these disputed transactions  he didnt authorise;
Add 8% simple interest a year from 2 December 2018 until the date of settlement; 
and
Pay Mr B £150 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3991433