K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say that mortgage  advice  they received from GE Money Lending Solutions (an 
appointed representative of GE Money Home Lending Limited) was unsuitable. 
In particular, they dont think it was good advice to consolidate some of their existing debts.
background
Mr and Mrs F remortgaged with GE Money Home  Lending (GEMHL) in 2007. Their  new 
mortgage was recommended  to them by GE Money  Lending Solutions (GEMLS).
Under their new mortgage, Mr and Mrs F redeemed  their existing mortgage  with GEMHL 
and incurred an early  repayment charge (ERC) in doing so. They also consolidated other  
borrowing (on secured loans with another branch  of GE Money and some  credit card debt). 
Mr and Mrs F raised a complaint last year about the mortgage advice theyd received from 
GEMLS. They didnt think the debt consolidation had been suitable, as it had ended up 
costing them much more  in interest.
GEMHL said the complaint had been raised  outside of time limits within the complaint-
handling rules  laid down by the industry  regulator,  the Financial Conduct  Authority. Mr and 
Mrs F referred the matter  to us, and we thought  it had been raised in time. So one of our 
investigators looked into things.
Our investigator didnt  think GEMLSs advice had been unsuitable, so she didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  
As Mr and Mrs F didnt accept our investigators  view, their complaint was referred  to me to 
decide. 
my provisional decision
I wrote  to both parties with my provisional  decision on Mr and Mrs Fs complaint last month.  I 
said:
The fact find document completed by the GEMLS  adviser  at the time recorded Mr and 
Mrs Fs objectives  in remortgaging were to clear  a £3,700 credit card debt, reduce their 
monthly outgoings and consolidate their borrowing so as to have a single monthly 
payment. Mr and Mrs F have confirmed their intentions  but now believe it to have been 
bad advice to go ahead.  
There are pros and cons to debt consolidation  its not something thats inherently 
bad, or unsuitable.  Whether its suitable for a borrower will depend on their needs  and 
circumstances. So Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Fs situation at the time in considering 
whether GEMLSs  recommendation  was suitable.
Ref: DRN34790092Firstly, Mr and Mrs F wanted to consolidate their debts to reduce their outgoings and it 
seems to me that they had a need for this. They had a number of secured  and 
unsecured debts, with an outstanding County Court  judgement against  them  and two 
having been cleared  in the recent  past. The fact find records  that the payments they 
were making to existing  debts as:
outstanding 
balancemonthly 
payment
mortgage £67.578.18 £596.58
secured loan 1 £21,056.72 £227.57
secured loan 2 £5,901.85 £95.04
credit card 1 £3,700 £150
credit card 2 £1,500 £75
credit card 3 £550 £40
storecard £2,616 £100
total £102,902.75 £1,284
Under the remortgage, Mr and Mrs F consolidated the £3,700  credit  card debt along 
with the two secured loans. The new mortgage had a fixed  rate of 7.39%  (for the first 
two years)  lower than Mr and Mrs Fs existing  deal of 8.25%  and much  lower than 
the rates being applied to the secured loans (of around 11%).  The credit card rate 
wasnt recorded, but its also likely to have been  higher than the mortgage  rate: its not 
unusual for such borrowing to be charged  at 15% or more, as our investigator pointed 
out. 
Under the new arrangement, Mr and Mrs Fs outgoings were  reduced to:
outstanding 
balancemonthly 
payment
mortgage £101,896.40 £832.96
credit card 2 £1,500 £75
credit card 3 £550 £40
storecard £2,616 £100
total £106,562.40 £1,047.96
So the new arrangement brought all their secured lending into one monthly payment, 
at a lower, fixed rate which  allowed them  greater  control over their finances. It also 
allowed them to clear  their highest credit  card debt, as theyd wished. And it meant 
they were now paying around £236  less towards  their debts each month.  I think  thats  
quite a significant reduction in their outgoings, of the kind they wouldve been looking 
to achieve at the outset. It therefore met their stated  objectives. 
Its also worth pointing  out that making  payments to the credit card wouldnt 
necessarily have been paying  it off  theyre  likely  to have been making only minimal 
inroads into the balance  owed. Comparatively, by consolidating it within the mortgage  
Mr and Mrs F were  guaranteed to repay the amount they owed so long as they made 
their mortgage payment  each month.
Ref: DRN34790093Ive also noted  that the mortgage term was actually reduced slightly  from that of their 
existing arrangement to ensure that the loan was repaid ahead of their anticipated 
retirement at age 65. But despite now paying  back the mortgage over a shorter term, 
they were still paying significantly  less each  month  than they had been previously. 
The question then is whether the costs outweighed these benefits. I know Mr and Mrs 
F believe  that their new mortgage  rate was higher than their previous one, but I dont  
think that was the case. Ive seen the paperwork for the previous mortgage which 
confirms they were fixed into a rate of 8.25% until January  2009.  So I dont agree that 
it cost them  more in the first two years. As set out above, rather than costing them  
£6,600 I think  it actually lowered their payments  over that period. By reducing their 
payments by £236 a month, over the term of the two-year  fixed rate deal that was a 
total of £5,664.
I agree  that they had to increase their borrowing  in order to go ahead. They  had to pay 
fees of around  £2,000 to the broker and lender in respect of setting the mortgage up. 
They also had to pay ERCs totalling  around  £1,600 to come out of their existing 
arrangements. These fees were added to the mortgage, incurring interest. So it was a 
relatively expensive  way to go about  rearranging  their finances.
In addition, while Mr and Mrs F benefitted from a lower interest  rate under their new 
arrangement, the term of some of their previous  borrowing had now been  extended   
meaning theyd  be paying it back for longer (and so incurring  interest  for longer too). 
Mr and Mrs F attached a credit card debt that they may have been able to clear within  
a few years  to the mortgage, which had a 19-year term. And one of their secured loans 
(with a balance of around £5,900) had just under 8 years left before it would be paid off 
in full  so Mr and Mrs F are now paying  this for 11 years more. That said,  the majority 
of the consolidation was for Mr and Mrs Fs secured loan of £21,000  which still had 
19 years  left to run. So Mr and Mrs F werent  paying  any more or for any longer on 
this  they were  simply refinancing it at a much lower rate (from around 11.5% to 
8.25%). 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think GEMLSs advice was unsuitable  in 
short, the pros outweighed  the cons.  The remortgage allowed Mr and Mrs F to achieve  
their primary aim of lowering their monthly outgoings   and by a significant amount. I 
think its fair to say they had a need  for this, and it was the driver for them  seeking 
advice in the first place.  As documented at the time, they had accumulated  a number 
of secured and unsecured debts and encountered some difficulty in maintaining the 
necessary payments as evidenced  by the CCJs against them.  
Mr and Mrs F would,  in all likelihood, have  also been  able to benefit from continuing 
preferential rates on the consolidated debts over the years  that followed  given that 
mortgage lending  rates dropped over time,  the interest they paid on these amounts 
wouldve been lower  than had they remained on their existing terms. And more 
broadly, the recommended mortgage  allowed  Mr and Mrs F more certainty in their 
budgeting  bringing all their secured  lending into one monthly payment and fixing  it for 
the duration of the two-year period.
So while I appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs comments that they were financially 
unsophisticated and relied entirely  on GEMLSs advice,  I cant see that theyve been 
disadvantaged by doing so.
Ref: DRN34790094Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Fs point that they believe they couldve got a better 
deal from a high street lender but were discouraged from approaching one by the 
adviser. Theres little in the way of documentary evidence to support their recollections 
here, as the notes  made by the adviser at the time seem to contradict this somewhat: 
he said hed made  Mr and Mrs F aware  that more favourable deals might be available 
but that they felt their CCJs could hinder them.
In any event, even  if I accept Mr and Mrs Fs version of events,  these comments dont 
strike me as incorrect or misleading.  I think theres a very real prospect that the CCJs 
against Mr and Mrs F  along with their broader financial circumstances at the time  
made it highly  unlikely that they wouldve met the stricter criteria of a high street  lender 
at the time. So given  what Ive seen of their situation, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the adviser  to recommend the two-year fixed rate deal  with a view to revisiting 
their arrangements  when  that came to an end.
And so based  on everything Ive seen so far, I dont  think GEMLS did anything  wrong  
in the sale of this mortgage to Mr and Mrs F. So Im not intending to uphold  their 
complaint.
Both parties  confirmed theyd received  my provisional decision.  Neither  party responded with 
any further information or evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with no new information for me to consider, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion. So this final decision confirms my provisional findings  as set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3479009