K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about Fairmead Insurance Limited, their home insurer. They 
are unhappy  with how it handled a claim they made after a water  leak.  They say it caused  
delays and its contractors  did damage  to their home.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  alerted  to a water leak in March 2018. They contacted  Fairmead and it 
appointed a building surveying company to assess the damage. A visit took place on 
24 March 2018  (about a week after the leak was found).
Mr and Mrs Ps home is a bungalow. The leak was behind the bath. The leak affected the 
flooring in the bathroom as well as in the kitchen, hallway and a bedroom which  all adjoin  the 
bathroom. Fairmead arranged for the bath to be removed and re-fitted to allow  
Mr and Mrs Ps plumber  to repair the leak. Floor  coverings (tiles and laminate) needed lifting  
for drying  to complete.  When they were lifted,  material possibly containing asbestos was 
found underneath them.  A test had to be done,  asbestos was found  and the material  was 
removed on 24 May 2018. The property was declared dry on 4 June 2018.
By this point  Mr and Mrs P had accused Fairmeads  contractor  of causing various damage.  
The contractor denied  the allegations  and refused to do any more work at the property. It 
told Fairmead to settle any remaining work in cash. Fairmead appointed a new contractor to 
finish the work.
There was a lead time for a new bathroom  suite to be provided. Work was due to start 
mid-late July. When the new contractor arrived around 19 July they found the contents of the 
property were still in place. They said the items needed removing for them to start work,  so 
no work could be done.
Until this point Mr and Mrs P had, at their choice,  remained in the property. But with the 
contents being removed and the contractors advising that the floors  needed screeding and 
that this is best done with no-one  living in the property, it was arranged for Mr and Mrs P to 
move into a hotel. A disturbance allowance was agreed.
Once Mr and Mrs P were at the hotel, and the contents were  moved,  the reinstatement work 
began. Mr and Mrs P again raised issues of concern about how work was being  carried  out 
by the new contractor. Further allegations of damage were  made,  which the new contractor 
refuted. On 14 September an electrician was working at the property. He left the property 
(according to tracking  data from the van he was driving) at 14.17. No other  contractors were  
on site that day.
Fairmead considered  the various damage allegations that had been  made  and felt it wasnt 
clear that any of its contractors had likely  been responsible for any of the issues raised. 
There were some claim repairs  outstanding  and Mr and Mrs P were still in the hotel. 
Fairmead decided  to settle the claim repairs in cash and pay for a further month of 
accommodation costs  (including travel  and laundry) to allow  Mr and Mrs P time to complete 
the work.  
Mr and Mrs P accepted the settlement  as far as it went for the claim repairs. But they 
remained unhappy about the damage which Fairmead hadnt  accepted  liability  for. They  said 
its contractors had:
Ref: DRN37847502Scratched the conservatory  floor.
Damaged their patio doors.
Left tools lying around, splashing concrete about.
Dirtied their carpet in the lounge.
Damaged kitchen  cupboard doors.
Chipped the granite  worktop.
Chipped the new bath.
In October  2018 Mr and Mrs P noticed an issue with their solar power hybrid  system.  They  
contacted the company that oversees  the system. It noted a fault had been  logged on its 
systems at 14:25 on 14 September  2018.  A clamp had been disconnected. It confirmed 
there is a 5  10 minute delay in fault data being logged.  Mr and Mrs P felt Fairmeads 
electrician had likely caused the problem. They alleged the damage had been done 
maliciously.
Fairmead considered  all the alleged damage and felt, in the main,  there  was no evidence  its 
contractors had caused any of it. But it agreed  to pay for the chip in the bath to be repaired 
as photos showed its contractors tools in the bath. Regarding the damage to the solar power 
system it said as its electricians van had been  running at 14:17, hed likely left the property  
about 14:00  so it seemed unlikely  hed have caused the damage logged  as occurring 
between 14:15  and 14:25 (allowing for the time delay).  
But Fairmead felt it could have handled the claim better and, because  it hadnt, some 
distress and inconvenience had likely been caused. It highlighted some poor communication  
and a delay regarding removal of the contents.  It offered  a total of £500 compensation. 
When Mr and Mrs P brought  their complaint to this service, our investigator felt there  was 
little independent evidence available to say what had caused the damage reported.  But he 
did think the detail  available in respect of the solar  power system meant it was most likely 
Fairmeads electrician had caused  the problem. He said it should  reimburse  Mr and Mrs Ps 
losses  being  the cost of repair and the money  they would have received if the system had 
been operating  correctly.  He felt the compensation Fairmead had paid/offered was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr and Mrs P maintained their view that Fairmeads contractors had caused all the damage 
complained about.  Fairmead maintained that it was unlikely its electrician had caused any 
damage to the solar  power system. As neither  party agreed with our investigators  findings, 
the complaint  was passed to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P are frustrated and unhappy  about  how their claim progressed. 
And I see that Fairmead acknowledges  there  was some delay and poor communication. Its 
offered £500 compensation  in total.  I think thats  fair and reasonable. 
Regarding the damage that Mr and Mrs P say Fairmeads various  contractors caused,  with 
one exception, I cant see any fair or reasonable grounds for upholding their complaint. Ive 
reviewed the files and evidence  available.  There are photos of damage to the property, such  
Ref: DRN37847503as the scratched conservatory floor. Mr and Mrs P say the contractors did it. The contractors 
deny this. With the exception of the solar power  system, there  is no independent evidence 
which can be used to determine what most  likely happened.  I cant fairly and reasonably 
uphold a complaint issue  like this against an insurer when I cant be satisfied it, or its agents 
are most likely responsible for the damage. 
The solar  power system  damage is different because it seems  the only persons in the house  
around the time of the damage occurring was Fairmeads contractor. The time window is 
small but, from what Ive seen, I think its most likely  Fairmeads contractor caused this 
problem, likely unintentionally  (and Ive certainly seen no evidence of malice). It cost 
Mr and Mrs P £300 to repair the system,  and they lost £164  for the period the system  was 
out of action. Im satisfied  that Fairmead should  pay them  a total £464.00,  plus interest* from 
the date Mr and Mrs P paid for the repair,  and should have received money, until settlement 
is made.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs P £464.00 
in respect of their repair costs and money lost due to the system not functioning,  plus 
interest* from the date money was paid and shouldve been received until settlement is 
made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 June  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If 
Fairmead Insurance  Limited considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest 
due to Mr and Mrs P, it should  tell them how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if 
they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3784750