K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) wrongly diagnosed the cause  of a 
fault with a radiator, and recommended a costly solution which  didnt solve the problem.
Ive previously issued  a provisional decision  on this case, but BG didnt agree with this. 
background
Mr D has a HomeCare policy with BG that covers the heating  system in a rental  property. In 
April 2018, before Mr D started letting  the property, BG did an inspection  of the heating 
system. It recommended  that a thermostatic  valve  in the main  bedroom and the pump  be 
replaced. This work  was undertaken and the property was then let.
In October  2018, Mr Ds tenants said that the radiator in the main  bedroom wasnt  getting  hot 
enough. A BG engineer  attended and replaced  the valve that had been  fitted  in April. A few 
days later,  the radiator  still failed to heat so Mr D called in BG again.  Its engineer  diagnosed 
that a Powerflush was needed. Mr D was quoted £848 for a full system  Powerflush and the 
fitting of a magnetic filter.
Mr D says he didnt really  want  a full system Powerflush as he planned to replace  the boiler 
and radiators at some future time as part of a refurbishment of the property before selling it. 
But he agreed to have a full system Powerflush  to keep his tenants  happy.
BG attended on 4 December 2018 to perform  a Powerflush and to fit a magnetic filter. The 
engineer wasnt  able to fit the magnetic filter as there wasnt  enough room to do so. Mr Ds 
bill was therefore reduced by £63 from £848  to £785. Mr D believes this was an 
underestimate of the cost of fitting  a magnetic  filter.
Later that evening, despite the Powerflush, the radiator in the main bedroom still failed to 
fully heat up. Another BG engineer came on 5 December and rebalanced the system. This 
made no difference. Another BG engineer came on 7 December. He identified  that there was 
a piece of excess  plastic left on the thermostatic  valve  when it was injection moulded. This 
was preventing the pin from the valve getting  to the heat level 5 position, and was shutting 
the water  off early. He cut the plastic and the radiator thereafter  worked  as normal.
Mr D accepts that a Powerflush wouldve been beneficial  and has improved the efficiency of 
his heating system. The other radiators heated up better than before to the extent that his 
tenants asked  for thermostatic valves to be fitted  elsewhere. But he maintains that his 
system didnt actually need a Powerflush as the problem with the radiator continued after the 
Powerflush had been undertaken. Hed therefore paid £785 for work that didnt fix the 
problem he wanted  it to fix. 
BG offered Mr D £200  compensation, but Mr D maintains that hes still out of pocket by 
£585, and he wants this to be refunded to him. He says that alternatively he will consider
accepting that BG returns to the property, at its cost, to fit three thermostatic  valves  to the
other two bedrooms  and the kitchen and to see whether a magnetic filter could be fitted  in 
his airing cupboard.
BG says that its initial diagnosis was correct.  The Powerflush had been recommended to 
improve circulation of the whole system and deal with some cold spots  in several  radiators. It 
also explained that the £63 cost of fitting a magnetic filter was a reduced cost as it was going 
Ref: DRN39750122to be done at the same time as the Powerflush when the system was already drained.  As to 
Mr Ds offer to accept replacement of thermostatic valves in the other  rooms,  BG has said it 
wont compensate him for making his system  more efficient. It sent him the £200 
compensation it originally  offered him.
Unhappy with BGs response to his complaint, Mr D referred it to this service. Our 
investigators view was that BG should refund Mr D the £585  by which he was still out of 
pocket because the Powerflush  hadnt  fixed the problem that Mr D wanted to have fixed.  
This wasnt fixed until the problem with the faulty valve  was identified.
In response to our investigators view, BG says that it had been visiting Mr Ds property since  
2011 and during its visits it had advised  him that there was brown oxide in the system which 
causes cold spots  on radiators and can also cause thermostatic radiator valves to block  and 
stick in a closed  position. It says its records  show that it has replaced valves  which were 
damaged by sludge at no cost to Mr D which supports its position that a Powerflush  was 
absolutely necessary to fully resolve the problems Mr D was encountering with his system.  It 
maintains that its diagnosis was correct.
Mr D says that hed had a central  heating system Powerflush carried out on 10 January 2012 
by a local heating  engineer as BG had advised it needed doing after a routine service.
BG didnt  agree with our investigators view, so the matter was referred to me for a final 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision as I considered that it wasnt  fair that Mr D should 
have received the benefit of a more efficient system without paying anything  towards  it. 
Mr D accepted my provisional  decision,  but BG still doesnt agree that it should have to pay 
anything to Mr D beyond  what  it has already paid him in compensation. It says that it had 
previously replaced pumps and valves which were damaged by sludge and that had he not 
had his system Powerflushed, it wouldnt  have  changed any more  water carrying  
components.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  including  BGs response  to my provisional 
decision. Im going to continue to uphold Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive looked at BGs service records for the property going back  to 2009. From these I can 
see that on 11 April 2011 an engineer  attended  and reported:
 Code3/  System full of brown oxide. Quoted for Powerflush and filter. 
BGs records thereafter dont record any further  comments about brown oxide in the system, 
which supports Mr Ds statement that he had a Powerflush undertaken by an independent 
engineer in 2012. So I dont think its fair for BG to say during its visits it had advised him 
that there  was brown oxide in the system.
But on 4 December 2018, when Mr Ds Powerflush  was undertaken, BGs records  state:    
CODE6 P/flushed  & chem cleaned  unbelievably filthy system. No room for filter, 
billing dispute to 785
Ref: DRN39750123I appreciate that Mr D wanted to have the single faulty radiator fully working, and didnt want 
to have a complete Powerflush, but Im satisfied that this was recommended to him by BG 
as the solution. It had previously recommended a Powerflush in April 2018. BG has 
confirmed that this was the correct diagnosis.
But after the Powerflush still hadnt  resolved the problem with the faulty radiator, another 
engineer found  that the problem wasnt  with sludge  in Mr Ds system,  which  the Powerflush 
had been aimed  at addressing. The problem was with a faulty valve,  and he fixed this. If this 
valve had been  checked by BG before the Powerflush, Mr D wouldve been satisfied. His 
radiator wouldve been working again, albeit not as efficiently as all his radiators were 
working after the Powerflush,  but nevertheless to a standard acceptable to him. He had 
plans to replace  the system.
So I can understand why Mr D considers that hes paid for something  he didnt need or want,  
and why he wants to be reimbursed the full £785  he paid BG.
But Mr D accepts that his heating system is working  more effectively that it did before, which 
is a benefit to him. He also has a system that has been cleaned, having been  unbelievably  
filthy as it hadnt been cleaned since 2012.  This is also of benefit  to him as it is less likely to 
break down  due to blockages.  This is also a benefit.  
Although I consider that BG shouldve done  more to identify the problem with the one 
radiator that wasnt  working properly before undertaking a process of last resort, I dont think 
its fair or  reasonable  for Mr D to have the benefits  this has brought him and still receive a 
full refund.
I think in the circumstances it would be reasonable for Mr D to pay £250 towards the £785  
cost of the Powerflush.  This would leave  BG with responsibility for £535 of the cost. As its 
already paid him £200, it will therefore  have to pay him a further £335.00.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ds complaint and I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr D £335.
I also require it to pay interest on this sum at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date Mr D 
paid for his Powerflush to the date payment  is made to him.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should 
also give him a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3975012