K820x#14complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) in 1996  and 2001.
The PPI was sold by a third party, but its been  agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  (FICL) as the insurer should  accept responsibility  for the complaint.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think FICL mis-sold  the PPI to Mrs E for the following reasons:
I think FICL made Mrs E aware she had a choice in taking both PPI polices, and she 
subsequently chose to take them.
I dont think FICL  recommended the policies to Mrs E. So it needed  to make sure it 
gave her enough information  about  the PPI so she could make  an informed choice.
I thought it was possible that the information FICL gave Mrs E about the PPI policies 
might not have been as clear as it should  have. But I didnt think  clearer information 
wouldve stopped  Mrs E from buying the PPI, given  her circumstances at the time.
I noted that Mrs E said she had a medical condition when she took out the cover.  I 
think it likely  it would  have been  difficult for Mrs E to make  a claim on the policies for 
this condition. But Mrs E told us she took medication  for the condition  and hadnt ever 
been off work for it. So I think that even if FICL  had made it clear  she couldnt  claim  
on the policies  for this condition, I still dont think shed had been  put off from buying 
the cover.
FICL didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision, so I assume it has nothing further to add.
Mrs E responded to my provisional decision to make the following main points:
She didnt know she had the PPI and she didnt know  what it was. She doesnt 
remember ticking or signing  anything  to buy the cover and she wouldnt have known 
what she was signing up for.
The provisional decision was based  on a lot of assumptions
She couldnt remember much about her employment details from either  sale. Or the 
hours that she worked. 
She said that when  she went to apply for a different type of cover with her husband 
she was told that she wouldnt  have been able to claim for her condition under that 
policy.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im not going to 
uphold Mrs Es complaint.  
Ref: DRN36372082Ive considered the additional points Mrs E has raised, but these dont change what  Ive 
already said in my provisional findings.  Because of this, I see no reason  to change my 
provisional decision. Ive attached this to the bottom  of this final decision.
I will however,  go over Mrs Es points in more  detail.
She didnt  know she had the PPI and she didnt know  what it was. She doesnt remember  
ticking or signing anything  and she wouldnt have known what  she was signing up for.
Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I think its more likely that Mrs E was given a 
choice in buying PPI  and why I think she agreed to buy the policies. I appreciate that these  
policies were sold a long time ago, so it isnt surprising that Mrs E cant remember doing  this. 
But I dont think that not remembering the purchase  of the policies  means they were sold 
unfairly. I understand Mrs E says she wouldnt have known what  she was signing, but Mrs E 
is responsible for asking  questions at the time of sale if she didnt know  what she was 
signing up to. So I cant fairly say FICL has done  anything wrong here.
The provisional decision was based  on a lot of assumptions
This is correct. Where information is missing, or incomplete as it is in this case, I have to 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances.
She couldnt remember much about her employment details from either  sale. Or the hours 
that she worked. 
Again, this is completely understandable given the length of time since the sales. But 
because of this, I cant  fairly  say that Mrs E wasnt eligible for the cover   or that her 
employment status might have meant  it would have  been difficult for her to make  a 
successful claim  on the policies.
She said that when  she went to apply for a different type of cover with her husband she was 
told that she wouldnt have been able to claim for her condition under that policy.
I cant comment on this point, as this decision is about PPI policies sold to Mrs E - and not 
other cover that she was intending to take out. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I 
dont think better information  about  exclusions relating to pre-existing medical conditions 
would have put Mrs E off buying the policies.
And so for the reasons stated in my provisional  decision and my responses to the main  
points Mrs E has since raised, I dont uphold  Mrs Es complaint. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36372083copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs E says she was mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI)  in 1996 and 2001.
The PPI was sold by a third party, but its been agreed in this case  that Financial  Insurance 
Company Limited (FICL) as the insurer  should accept responsibility for the complaint.
background
Mrs E says she bought the policy in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a store card. She later 
bought another policy during a telephone conversation in 2001.
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold  the complaint  because Mrs E had a medical 
condition that she wouldnt  have  been able to claim  on the policy for. FICL disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision  on the 
matter.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mrs Es case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold  Mrs Es complaint  and Ill explain  why. Because there were two 
separate policies sold at different times, Ill talk about each sale separately.
1996 sale
Ive seen a copy of the application form for Mrs Es store card. On it theres  a section for PPI and it 
says to tick the box to buy a policy. I can see theres a tick in the box to buy the cover. And Mrs E has 
signed the agreement as a whole, so I think it likely she wanted this type of cover at the time.  In my 
view, I think  it was clear Mrs E could have left the box blank had she not wanted the cover.
2001 sale
FICL say this PPI policy  was taken out during a telephone conversation. We dont have a recording  of 
the call, but this isnt surprising or unusual. But this does make it difficult  for me to know what  
happened on the call and to know  how the PPI was presented to Mrs E. Based on what  I know about 
how FICL normally  sold PPI on the telephone,  it would  have normally made it clear  that PPI was 
optional and it would  have normally got consent before  adding the cover.
Mrs E told us that she cant remember any details  from the sale.
So without any additional information, and on balance, I think FICL  made it clear  that Mrs E had a 
choice in taking both policies   and I think she chose to take them   although  I can understand why 
she may no longer  remember this.
both sales
Ref: DRN36372084I dont think FICL advised  Mrs E to take out the PPI. So it didnt have to check it was suitable  for her. 
But it did need  to make sure it gave her enough information about  the cover so she could decide for 
herself if she wanted to buy it.
I dont know exactly what information Mrs E received about the policy  at the time of sale. But even if I 
accept she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this wouldve  affected 
her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons Ive explained below.
I think  it likely  Mrs E was eligible  for the policies  and she doesnt appear to have been affected by 
most of the main things which may have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as 
being self-employed. She told us she was employed and in good health.  Mrs E says she couldnt 
remember what level of sick pay she would have got if she was away from work due to illness. But 
this PPI policy  would have paid out in addition  to any sick pay Mrs E might have got.
Based on my knowledge of how FICL presented the cost of the policies,  Im not satisfied it would 
have made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Mrs E to understand  what the real cost of the 
policy was for her. But taking  everything into account,  I think if Mrs E had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she wouldve  thought the policy potentially useful.
Our adjudicator initially  thought Mrs Es policies had been mis-sold. This is because  Mrs E told us 
that she had a condition when she took out the cover and she wouldnt have been able to make a 
claim on the policies if shed been  off work  for that particular condition. 
Ive thought about this point very carefully  when considering a fair outcome to this complaint. And 
although I agree it might  not have  been brought to Mrs Es attention that she wouldnt have been 
able to claim  for the pre-existing medical  condition, I think Mrs E would have  still bought the policy  
even if she had known about this exclusion in the policy documents. 
This is because Mrs E told us that she didnt  have any time off work as a result of this condition  
and I think it unlikely  she would have thought  shed  need time off in the future as a result of the 
condition. So I currently think that even if shed have had better information about this exclusion, 
shed have still bought  the cover.
Overall, I think  it likely that FICL didnt  do everything it needed  to when it sold the policy  to
Mrs E. But I think it likely she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I think she would still 
have taken out the cover if shed been properly  informed about it.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not planning to uphold  Mrs Es complaint.
I now invite  Mrs E and FICL to give me any further information  they want me to consider before 
I make  my final decision.  This must be provided to us by 28 April 2019.
Ref: DRN3637208