K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance,  (PPI), policy  with a 
store credit account.  
The insurer,  Allianz  Insurance Plc, (Allianz), is responsible for the sale,  although it didnt 
actually sell the PPI. For simplicity Ive referred just to Allianz throughout my decision.
background
Mr A bought the policy in 1996  by post,  at the same time as he opened the credit  account. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Allianz  had mis-sold the policy. Mr A disagreed  with this so 
the matter has come  to me to decide.
In December 2018 Allianz told Mr A that it would  refund him some  of the commission it had 
charged. It may by now have done  that. But it didnt feel that the policy  was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. Ive 
followed this in deciding  Mr As compliant.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr A says that Allianz  didnt make it clear  that the policy was optional. But I find that its likely 
he did know that it was optional and chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen Mr As 
signed application form for the account. This has a section in it dealing with PPI. I can see 
that he has ticked a box in the section  requesting  the insurance  and filled in details  to show 
that he was the person to be covered by the policy. Because of the time that has passed I 
can understand why Mr A may not remember this detail of the PPI sale.
In response to our adjudicators opinion, Mr A also said that he felt pressured into taking  out 
the insurance. He points  out that the PPI section  of the form, to which Ive referred above, 
says that Allianz  strongly recommends that the cover is taken out. His view is that such a 
statement in a legal document creates pressure to comply, which I certainly  felt. Ive 
thought carefully  about this but I dont consider that including these words in the form 
amounted to unfair pressure to take the policy. To my mind it was simply a statement 
encouraging someone  reading the form to think carefully about the possible benefits of 
having PPI. And the fact that PPI was recommended, to my mind made it clear it wasnt  
compulsory to have  it.
Mr A also says that he phoned  Allianz  to ask why there was this recommendation. He 
says that Allianz  alluded that taking the cover would make  it more likely that his 
application for the account would be successful. Ive not been  given any notes or 
recording of such a call, so I cant know exactly what was said. Mr A is trying to recall  
events of more than 20 years ago, so I dont feel I can reasonably rely just on his 
memory. But anyway  he hasnt told us anything specific that Allianz  said that in my 
view could reasonably  have led him to think he had to have the PPI in order  to open 
the account. 
Ref: DRN38748282Also the way the form was set out, requiring Mr A to take a positive action if he wanted  
the policy, that is to say by completing  the relevant boxes, showed he had a choice. 
So, on balance, I dont  think  that I can fairly and reasonably say that Allianz put unfair 
pressure on Mr A or didnt  make  it clear to him that the PPI was optional.
Mr A says that Allianz  recommended him to take the policy. He says this because of 
the wording on the account application form and the contents of the phone 
conversation, to both of which  Ive referred earlier. If hes right then Allianz needed to 
have taken reasonable steps to ensure that the PPI was suitable for his needs. 
However I dont agree  that the wording of the application amounted  to anything more  
than an expression  that Allianz felt that taking the policy  was generally potentially 
advantageous to applicants. It was a statement aimed at anyone  reading the form, not 
tailored advice for Mr A personally. And, I dont consider that Ive any evidence  that 
during the phone call Allianz told Mr A that it was specifically suitable  for him in his 
particular circumstances.  
So I dont  find that Allianz made a personal  recommendation to Mr A to take the policy. 
This means  that it didnt have to check whether the policy would be right for him. It was 
up to him to decide  whether he wanted  it or not. However Allianz still had to give Mr A 
clear, fair and not mis-leading  information  about  the insurance so that he could make  
an informed decision.
The account  application form said that the PPI cost 64p a month  for each £100  
outstanding on the account.  And it explained that its cover included  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Its likely  that Allianz didnt give Mr A all the other 
information about the PPI as fully or clearly as it ought  to have. However,  knowing  
what I do about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr As circumstances at the 
time, he was eligible  for it and not affected by any of its main  restrictions and 
limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of the sick pay Mr A has told us he 
was entitled to  or of any redundancy payment he might have got if hed lost his job. 
And hes told us he didnt have any savings or other means of making  repayments  on 
the account, if he wasnt working.  
So I dont  think that better  information  would have changed his mind and made Mr A 
feel that the policy wouldnt have been  of use to him. And I note that Allianzs records 
show Mr A made a successful claim on the policy for sickness in 2000. This to my 
mind supports my view that at the time of the sale the policy  could have beeen useful 
to him, even  taking into account his employee  benefits.
My above  conclusions mean that I dont find that Allianz mis-sold the PPOI. So theres  
nothing I require it to put right.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Ref: DRN38748283Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3874828