K820x#14Complaint
Miss M says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Miss M bought  the policy at the same time as applying for a credit card in 2004. The policy  
protected her card repayments  if she couldnt work  due to disability  or unemployment.  It 
also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ms case.
Having done so, I dont believe Northern Bank mis-sold the PPI to Miss M. Ill explain why.
Northern Bank had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and get Miss Ms agreement 
to take it. Miss Ms told us that she thought she had to have the PPI if she wanted the credit 
card. 
I cant say for sure what  took place in 2004. Ive thought carefully about what  Miss M 
remembers of the sale but Ive also taken  into account that it took place several  years  ago 
and that memories tend to fade over time. Ive also taken into account what  paperworks still 
available from back then.
For example, Northern Banks  given us a copy of the application form Miss M signed  in 
2004, which included  a section headed  Payment Protection Plan. The section shows a 
handwritten tick next to a statement indicating Miss M wanted PPI. I note also that, later in 
the form, Miss M didnt  opt to take out another card-related  insurance  policy.  So it seems to 
me that Miss M would have been  aware  of the choices she had regarding the various 
insurances  including PPI  Northern  Bank  was offering and made  her decisions 
accordingly.
So, based  on everything Ive seen, I think Northern Bank made Miss M aware she had a 
choice about the PPI and she agreed to take it out, knowing it was separate to the credit 
card and that she could  refuse it if she wanted to.
Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI to Miss M. That meant,  among  other  things, it 
should have checked if the PPI was right for her. And, based on what  I know  about her 
personal circumstances at the time,  I think it was. I say this because:
Miss M appears to have been  eligible for the PPI and doesnt seem  to have been 
affected by any of the main exclusions to, or limits on, the cover.
Ref: DRN38028582Miss M was entitled to generous sick pay from her public sector employer  
consisting of full pay for six months  and half pay for a further six months.  But the 
policy benefits would have paid out on top of that and for longer, at up to 12 months 
per claim. And it covered  her for unemployment  too. So I think the PPI provided  her 
with useful additional protection.
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable to Miss M. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled  it at any time if she decided he no longer wanted  it.
Northern Bank also had to ensure it gave Miss M clear information  about the PPI to allow her 
to make an informed decision about  whether to take it. As Ive said,  I think  that Miss M chose 
to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have 
provided useful  and affordable protection for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M. 
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium)  so it should have told Miss M about that. Because Northern Bank didnt  
tell Miss M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Banks basically  offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium   and I think that 
offers fair in this case.
What the business needs  to do
Northern Bank has to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so. Northern Bank should also 
pay back to Miss M any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Northern Bank should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Miss M the difference 
between what Miss M owes and what she would have owed if the commission and profit  
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Northern Bank  should  also pay 
Miss M 8%* simple interest if she paid off her credit  card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN38028583My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3802858