K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside an M&S card.
Its been agreed in this case  that Allianz Insurance plc, as the insurer,  should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to Allianz as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr G says Allianz mis-sold him the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt think  this complaint should be 
upheld. Mr G disagreed  so the complaint  has been  brought to me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr G says he wasnt aware  the PPI was optional and that it could be refused. Ive 
considered this alongside the other evidence available, but Ive also considered  that this sale 
took place a long time ago  around  21 years ago  so its difficult  to rely on what  Mr G says 
alone to conclude something  untoward  happened. 
Unfortunately, due to the length of time thats passed Mr Gs agreement is no longer 
available for me to see. But Allianz has provided a sample application form which  it says is 
the same  form, or similar, as the one Mr G wouldve completed and signed at the time  and 
Ive seen no reason  to doubt this. This application has a separate section for PPI where  the 
applicant could tick a box if they wanted the cover  and enter their full name  as the insured 
person. There is nothing here which states the applicant had to complete this section or to 
suggest that the application wouldnt be successful unless the PPI was taken out. The PPI 
was added to Mr G account, so I think its more  likely than not he ticked the box and 
completed this section to agree to the cover.  
So overall, I think its likely Allianz  made  it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
Based on the evidence  and from what weve seen of these types of sales  previously, I dont 
think Allianz recommend  the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But 
it did have to make sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But the evidence suggests that he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong.
Mr G says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer and had some savings which he 
couldve used to cover  his repayments.  Ive considered this but Ive also looked  at the PPI 
Ref: DRN30606842policy which  costed £0.65 per £100.00  of Mr Gs outstanding  monthly balance.  This wouldve 
provided up to 12 months cover in addition to his sick pay and savings.  So these funds 
couldve been used  for other expenses. And I think the PPI wouldve been especially useful 
for Mr G when  his sick pay reduced to half. Mr G also said he couldve relied on his parents 
to support him, but help from others  cant always be relied upon as their circumstances can 
also change over time. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have  put him 
off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3060684