K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about the way Santander UK Plc treated  her when she asked it to help her 
recover money shed  lost in a scam.  
background
On 17 December 2018 Ms S made a card payment of £250 towards an investment 
opportunity. She also made two payments using a credit  card she holds with another  bank. 
Ms S later found out the investment opportunity wasnt what she thought it was going  to be 
and that shed been the victim of a scam.
On 29 January 2019 she contacted Santander to let it know  her concerns about the payment 
shed made.  It investigated  the disputed transaction as a scam payment but declined Ms Ss 
claim two days  later.  It said the bank wasnt responsible as shed authorised the transaction.  
On 5 March 2019,  Ms S contacted Santander and made a complaint. Her other bank had 
disputed the payments shed made  using  her credit card by raising a chargeback. Ms S says 
she contacted  her other bank in January and received  a refund in March.  Ms S feels  
Santander could  have done more  to help her by attempting a chargeback when  she first got 
in touch. She questioned what Santander  had investigated as shed told the bank  right from 
the start that shed made the payment to the merchant herself. 
On 8 March 2019,  Santander sent Ms S chargeback dispute  paperwork. 
On 13 March 2019, the merchant refunded the £250. Ms S explains this only happened 
because she involved the Police and Action Fraud.  
On 15 March 2019, Santander  issued  its final response. It said it hadnt made a mistake in 
the way it initially  handled Ms Ss claim because shed said the payment was made as part 
of a scam.  It said it would  now raise  a chargeback claim on Ms Ss behalf if she completed  
the paperwork and provided evidence of her dealings with the merchant.  
Ms S disagreed with Santanders response.  She said the bank had treated her poorly by 
putting all of the responsibility back onto her and made a difficult situation worse.  She says 
she was made to feel humiliated  for falling victim  to a scam.  She asked this service  to review  
the complaint.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She didnt think it was unreasonable of 
Santander to initially treat the payment as a scam payment given the financial regulator, the 
FCA, had issued a warning about  this merchant. She thought it was important for Santander 
to consider whether it had done  enough  to prevent Ms S from making a transaction that 
could cause her financial  harm. 
But our investigator agreed  it would  have been  fair and reasonable for Santander  to have 
explored raising a chargeback when Ms S originally  raised her dispute. She noted the bank 
didnt ask Ms S to provide  any evidence and that her other  bank had raised a chargeback 
which had ultimately  been successful. She thought Santander should  have explored all 
avenues in an attempt  to recover any funds it could. She recommended  Santander  should  
apologise and offer Ms S £75 compensation for the upset and extra  inconvenience  it caused 
her by not starting  the chargeback process sooner.
Ref: DRN33003442Santander agreed to the investigators  recommendations.  But Ms S didnt think  it went  far 
enough. She said £75 wasnt a sufficient  punishment and Santander needs to change the 
way it treats  people. She points out that other people who have fallen victim to a scam  might 
not know to contact the authorities and could  be losing  out. 
As Ms S disagreed with our investigator, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see Ms S feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Its clear from what shes 
said, to both us and Santander, that she was expecting more support from the bank. She 
was the victim of a cruel scam and thought the money had been lost, so I can understand  
why shed expect  her bank to do all it reasonably could to try and help her. 
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise  a chargeback. But I would consider it good 
practice for a chargeback  to be attempted where the right exists, and there is some prospect 
of success. Santander has now accepted that it should have  been  more proactive in 
exploring whether  chargeback could have  helped Ms S to recover  her money. And Ms S was 
ultimately able to recover the money shed paid directly form the merchant. So, all thats left 
for me to decide is whether the apology  and compensation recommended  by our investigator  
fairly acknowledges the impact to Ms S of the chargeback process not being explored when 
she first got in touch  with the bank. I think it is, so Ill explain why. 
If Santander had started  the chargeback process  when Ms S first got in touch, I think its 
more likely than not that it would have  succeeded,  given what happened with the 
transactions Ms S made to the same merchant using her credit card. But Ive noted  the claim 
with the other bank  took about  two months to go through. Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest there was a problem or delay  on the other banks  part. So, on balance,  I dont  think 
Ms S would  have got the money returned to her much sooner than it was if Santander  had 
started the chargeback process  at the earliest  opportunity. 
Im also mindful the potential chargeback  claim was still within the time limits  allowed when 
Santander agreed it would consider it. So, Ms S hadnt lost the opportunity  of trying a 
chargeback, though it wasnt  required  any more  by this point. 
I can appreciate that Ms S feels let down by Santander. She didnt know about chargeback 
and how it operates  and was relying on the bank to try to help her recover the money shed 
lost. Shes  pointed out that other customers in a similar situation might be losing out too. 
But the Financial  Ombudsman Service isnt intended to regulate  or fine businesses  for their 
conduct  thats  the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  This means  that Im not able to 
punish Santander or change its internal processes  and procedures. 
Ive thought about the impact Santanders delay in considering chargeback when  it fairly  and 
reasonably should have  done so sooner had on Ms S. Shes also said Santander  made her 
feel humiliated for falling  victim to a scam. But having looked  at the contact between Ms S 
and Santander,  Ive not observed anything which leads me to think  Santander was being 
deliberately discourteous.  Ms S was clearly very upset with Santanders initial decision not to 
Ref: DRN33003443refund the money shed lost. But I am mindful that the loss of the money through the scam 
was contributing to Ms Ss distress  and I cant fairly hold Santander responsible for the 
actions of this third party.
For all the reasons Ive set out above,  I think £75 fairly reflects  the level of distress  and 
inconvenience it is likely Ms S experienced as a direct  result of Santanders mistake. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  now apologise to Ms S and pay her £75 in 
recognition of the distress this has caused her and the inconvenience to which  she has been  
put.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3300344