K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Barclays  Bank  UK PLC hasnt  refunded a payment he made for a holiday. 
background
Mr W used his Barclays credit card to pay for an all-inclusive holiday for him and two of his 
relatives. The total cost was around £2,400. When they arrived  at their hotel they discovered 
the hotel didnt serve any alcoholic drinks, soft drinks or snacks.  Mr W says he complained 
and asked to be moved  to another hotel which did offer these services. 
Mr W says an alternative hotel couldnt  be provided. For this reason, Mr W and his relatives 
decided to pay for flights to return home the day after arriving.  They  complained to the travel 
agent who sold them the holiday package and received a refund of around £1,100. 
Mr W felt he should be entitled to a full refund so he raised a claim with Barclays  under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (S75).  Barclays declined his claim. It initially  
said Mr W hadnt paid for the holiday, but later agreed he had. It said the claim couldnt 
succeed because  it was Mr Ws relative that had the contract with the travel agent.  
I sent Mr W and Barclays  my provisional  decision on 5 July 2019 explaining why I didnt think  
the complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  I said:
My role wasnt  to decide  Barclays liability under S75, but to decide  what  was fair and 
reasonable. In doing so, Id taken  into account the relevant  law which  included  S75 
and the Package Travel and Linked  Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018.
I thought there was a debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement between Mr W, the 
holiday company  and Barclays, in order for Mr W to make  a S75 claim. This was 
because Mr W had paid the holiday company  directly using his Barclays credit  card 
and he was listed as a passenger on the booking confirmation. Although  he wasnt 
the lead passenger, the very nature of these types of bookings was that only one 
person could ever be the lead passenger. I didnt think  this meant only the lead 
passenger had a contract with the holiday company  Mr W did too. 
There was no evidence to demonstrate  how the holiday company had advertised the 
all inclusive holiday at the time Mr W booked  it. I said that it was reasonable to 
expect all inclusive  to include at least some  alcoholic and soft drinks  and snacks.  
But I was satisfied,  on balance, that it wasnt made  clear to Mr W prior to booking  that 
some of those things werent available. 
It wasnt in dispute  that alcohol wasnt included. It appeared that some soft drinks  
were provided but I thought the selection was very limited  compared to what  a 
reasonable person might expect. I wasnt  however persuaded that snacks werent 
available, particularly  as Mr W didnt raise  this in his initial  complaint letter  to the 
holiday company.  
Overall I was satisfied that there had been a breach of contract as the holiday wasnt 
what a reasonable  person would expect  from an all inclusive holiday  due to the 
lack of alcoholic  and limited soft drinks.  
But despite this I didnt think Barclays needed to give any refund to Mr W. This was 
because I thought Mr W had already received  a fair refund from the holiday 
company. And I didnt  think he did enough to try and mitigate his losses.  
This was because Mr W was at the resort for at most around 24 hours before 
choosing to fly home. I didnt think he gave the holiday company enough time to try 
and resolve the situation for him  such as moving him to an alternative resort.  He 
Ref: DRN38719792had said he tried calling the holiday company and was promised a call back.  He says 
they never called  back. But I couldnt see that Mr W had tried to call them back 
either. 
By choosing to fly home so soon, I thought the holiday company was prevented  from 
having a reasonable  period of time to try and find a solution. I wasnt  persuaded 
Mr Ws actions  were reasonable in the circumstances.
I agreed it would  have been  disappointing  for Mr W not to have alcoholic and soft 
drinks and snacks. But I wasnt persuaded this was the only reason they chose to 
book the holiday. They still received the flights and accommodation  they paid for. He 
could still have  enjoyed the other facilities at the resort and might have been moved 
to a different  resort  had he waited a more  reasonable period of time. 
I thought the refund  from the holiday company  of almost half of what he paid was fair 
given all the circumstances.  For that reason I didnt  think it would be fair to say 
Barclays ought to refund  Mr W anything further  on top of that. 
Barclays agreed with my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
Mr W didnt agree. In summary he said he didnt  think  Id reviewed all of the information 
thoroughly as he couldnt understand  why I would think he received an all inclusive  holiday.  
He said he didnt get what he paid for so how could it be fair he didnt get all of his money  
back. Mr W said he made 14 calls in the 24 hours he was at the resort to try and get the 
issue resolved. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr W that I have carefully considered everything hes said and provided. 
And I agreed  with him in my provisional decision that the holiday he got wasnt what  a 
reasonable person would describe as all inclusive. But that doesnt  mean  its automatically  
fair that he should  get a full refund. 
Ive explained  this is because the elements  of the all inclusive that were  missing were only 
a fraction of the overall cost he paid for the holiday. A large part of the cost was to pay for 
the flights and accommodation  and Mr W did receive that. As I explained  in my provisional 
decision, Mr W could have still used  the other facilities at the hotel whilst he was waiting for 
a more permanent  solution to his concerns. 
Ive also thought about whether I think he gave the holiday company a reasonable amount of 
time to resolve the situation.  I appreciate  Mr W feels very strongly  about  this and I can also 
understand why he might  feel 24 hours  was a reasonable period of time. But having thought 
about all the wider circumstances  such as the significance of the breach of contract 
compared to the overall cost of the holiday  I dont think 24 hours was reasonable.
Mr W says he made 14 different calls to try and resolve the issue. And while I dont doubt 
that, it doesnt appear these 14 calls were made  to the holiday company. I say this because 
Mr Ws original  complaint  letter to the holiday company only mentions him making  one call. 
I think if hed made  14 calls to them (or more than one) I would have  expected him to have  
mentioned it. Particularly because his complaint letter was sent two days after arriving home. 
So for that reason Im still not persuaded that he gave the holiday company a reasonable 
period of time to try and resolve his concerns. 
Ref: DRN38719793I realise this will be very disappointing for Mr W, but taking everything into account, I think 
the refund  hes already received from the holiday  company  is fair compensation for the 
breach of contract.  For that reason I dont think it would be fair to direct  Barclays  to pay him 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3871979