K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
insurance (MPI) policy in 1999.
background
This MPI policy covered  Mr N for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and decided that it should not be upheld.  Mr N didnt 
agree with this view and asked  that the case be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The MPI was a part of a policy called a Flexible Mortgage Plan (FMP), which included an 
investment element, designed to repay the mortgage potentially, depending  on fund 
performance. It also included life and critical illness cover. Mr N hasnt complained about 
these elements of the insurance  policy, so I will not consider them  further in this decision. 
Mr Ns representatives have raised arguments  about  the alleged  mis-selling in terms that 
apply to payment  protection insurance (PPI). But the policy  that was sold was not strictly 
speaking a PPI policy. I explain  why I say that. The Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) 
defines PPI as follows,
A non-investment insurance contract  which has elements of a general  insurance  contract  and 
the benefits of which are described as enabling a policyholder  to protect his ability to continue to 
make payments due to third parties, or can reasonably  be expected to be used in this way.
PPI is defined by the FCA as a non-investment  contract. The FCA further defined a non-
investment insurance  contract saying it can be a pure protection policy, which  is further 
defined as a contract  that has no surrender value. The FMP is a contract that includes an 
investment element. Consequently, as the MPI is a part of the FMP, I find that the MPI does 
not meet the definition of a PPI policy as defined by the FCA. There are other  reasons  why I 
do not consider  the MPI to be a PPI policy but the above is, I think, sufficient on its own to 
reach that determination.  
We can consider this complaint about  the sale of this policy.  And in considering this 
complaint I have read all the submissions made in this case. But, whilst I have noted the 
arguments raised by Mr Ns representatives, as they pertain to complaint handling for PPI 
policies, I will not be answering all the points they have  raised,  because  this policy is not a 
PPI policy. 
For the same reason,  the FCAs guidance  on the non-disclosure of commission in the light of 
the Plevin judgment does not apply  here.  However,  even if it had applied,  because the 
borrowing itself was with a third-party  and not ReAssure, that means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable anyway.
Ref: DRN38876592Having considered this case with care, I have  decided  that the complaint should not be 
upheld. I have explained my reasons below.
Both parties accept  that the MPI was recommended to Mr N. This meant ReAssure  
had to make sure the cover was suitable  for Mr N. It also had to give Mr N the 
information he needed so he could decide  whether  to take it out.
Mr N was eligible for the cover and he wasnt caught by any of the significant  
exclusions in the policy. As Mr N told us he had worked  for his employer for three 
years at the time of the sale and that he was in good  health,  I think he could have  
made a successful claim if he had needed to.
I think from the paperwork  I have  seen that Mr N chose to take out the MPI and knew 
he could decline it if he wanted to. I can see that the policy application  form is signed  
and dated by Mr N. I have seen nothing in the documents provided that might have 
miss-lead Mr N to think that he had to have the cover to get the mortgage.  So, 
considering how long ago these events  occurred, and considering the absence of 
any detailed testimony from Mr N to the contrary, I think  that Mr N agreed to take the 
policy and did so knowing this was something  he could have said no to. 
And I think  Mr N had a need  for the policy.  I say this because  Mr N says he would 
have received six months full pay followed by six months half pay but that he had no 
other means he could  have relied  on to pay his mortgage if he was too ill to work,  or 
if he lost his job. But I can see this policy could have paid out for up to 12 months in 
the event that Mr N lost his job and for the remaining term of the mortgage, in the 
event that Mr N was too ill to work.  And I can see that Mr Ns sick pay appears  to 
have been taken into account when  determining the suitability of the cover,  as a 52-
week deferred period was chosen  for the accident and sickness  cover. This means it 
would have been helpful at a time when Mr Ns sick pay from his employer could  
have been exhausted.  So, considering the potentially serious consequences of 
possibly defaulting  on a loan secured on your home, as Mr N was taking on a new 
financial commitment secured on his new home, and as Mr N told us he had no other 
means to repay his mortgage, I think Mr N would have  thought this policy would have 
provided him a useful  benefit if anything went wrong. 
The cost of the policy appears to have been  clearly set out on the illustration 
ReAssure has provided. But Im not sure how the information  about the policys 
benefits and significant  exclusions were presented  to Mr N. But looking at his 
circumstances at the time - and the cost and the level of benefit  - Im satisfied that 
the policy could  have provided  a useful benefit to him at a reasonable cost compared  
with polices offering  similar benefits  that were available at the time, and it appears to 
have been affordable.  And for the reasons Ive given above, I think the policy was 
suitable for Mr N. So, even if clearer or better  information had been provided  to Mr N, 
I dont think he would  have done anything differently.  I still think he would have 
bought the policy.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN38876593my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax.Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3887659