K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out to cover  their mortgage in 2003.  Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building Society 
(Yorkshire) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs M case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Yorkshire made it clear  that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember this. 
From everything Ive seen  Mr and Mrs M took their mortgage in 1997 and the PPI policy 
in 2003. So its clear that one wasnt conditional  upon the other.
Ive seen  a record of a phone call between Mr and Mrs M and Yorkshire in 2003,  and a 
letter to Mr and Mrs M following that call with information on the PPI policy, and a form 
for them  to complete if they wanted  it. Yorkshire  has provided  a copy  of the form that Mr 
and Mrs M completed  and sent back to it, requesting the PPI policy. 
Yorkshire  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them.  But it did have to make  sure Mr and Mrs M got the information  they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible  the information Yorkshire  gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it also looks  as though  the paperwork  they signed  made  it clear  
what the policy covered, and what  theyd need to pay for it.
The policy covered  Mr M only and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. So the policy wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs M if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. And as they appear to have proactively instigated 
the sale, I dont think  better information about  the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN39381782But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:  
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium. And I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said, including what  theyve said about 
thinking the PPI policy  was to cover a shortfall on their endowment  policies. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont think Yorkshire  mis-sold this PPI policy to them  because I 
think they chose  to take it and I think it was clear what it covered, and how much  that cover  
would cost.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Yorkshire should also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3938178