K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with how the Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds) dealt with a claim he made on his 
car insurance.
background
Mr A has a carsmetic insurance  policy, underwritten  by Lloyds.  The policy provides cover for 
scratches, minor  dents,  damaged alloy wheels and scuffed  bumpers.  Mr A made a claim on 
the policy on 15 October 2018 for scratches on the bonnet of his car. 
Lloyds turned down  the claim and sent Mr A an email explaining why. It said this was 
because damage  to bonnets, boots and roofs were limited to stone chip damage  only.  Mr A 
called Lloyds on the same  day, after receiving its decision, to dispute it. He said that hed 
previously had a claim turned down because the policy didnt cover stone chip damage  so 
he thought itd made a mistake. Lloyds reviewed its decision, confirmed an error had been 
made and instructed a repairer. This was all completed on the same day, 25 October  2018.
Mr A complained to Lloyds about its actions in declining  the claim and the incorrect  
information it gave  in its response. Lloyds apologised and said the mistake was due to 
human error. It offered  a total of £50 compensation for the distress caused by its error.
Mr A was unhappy with Lloyds response  and asked  our service to review  the complaint. He 
was unhappy  that the claim took ten days to be looked into and that it was then incorrectly 
declined. He said he did not believe that the mistake in the initial response was due to 
human error. He believed Lloyds intentionally and fraudulently declined  his claim. He was 
also unhappy with the amount of compensation offered.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr A. She didnt think the time it took for Lloyds to look 
into the claim was unreasonable. She also thought it likely that the initial  decision to decline  
the claim was down to human error. But in any event as the claim had now been  covered, 
Mr A hadnt  lost out as a result  of the error. And she thought the £50 offered was fair.
Mr A disagreed. He maintained he didnt accept  that the initial decision was down to human 
error, pointing to the explanation being sent to him in writing. He said he wouldve been left 
with a large bill for the repairs had he not challenged the decision and he considered the 
offer of compensation an insult. As a result the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
The claim was logged  on 15 October 2018  and a decision made  on 25 October 2018. I know 
Mr A is unhappy with how long this took but the investigation of an insurance claim is 
unlikely to ever be instantaneous. And given  the policy  is intended to cover cosmetic 
damage, which is what the claim was for, theres  been no suggestion that Mr A was 
prevented from using his car in the meantime. So I dont think the timeframe for looking at 
the claim was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN31824362Mr As policy  does  not cover stone  chip damage, which is confirmed in the policy  document. 
So the response he received was incorrect in what it said.  And Lloyds acknowledged by 
upholding the claim on review that it was declined incorrectly. Mr A has said that as a result 
of the mistake he couldve been  left with a large bill for the repairs. But the claim was upheld  
and covered on review.  So he hasnt incurred  a loss. And our role is to try to put people back  
in the position they wouldve been  in if an error hadnt occurred  which has happened here.
Mr A has said that the claim  was assessed fraudulently and declined  on purpose  to avoid 
Lloyds having  to pay out. In response  to the adjudicators opinion he said that someone took 
the time to write the reasons for declining the claim in an email,  so he doesnt accept it was 
human error. But Ive seen no evidence to suggest  the error  with the initial  assessment was 
made intentionally. And people make mistakes in written correspondence too. Based on 
what Ive seen I think it was likely  down  to the human error, likely due to the person 
responding making a mistake when reading  the terms.
Turning to the offer Lloyds made for the distress caused by its error, I think  what  it has 
suggested is reasonable. Mr A has said that the offer is insulting and Lloyds  should  pay him 
more. I understand  Mr A was unhappy  with the decision to decline his claim. But once he 
made Lloyds  aware of this the decision was reviewed and overturned within a matter  of 
hours. So, while I know Mr A feels strongly  about  this, I think the offer of £50 is fair as the 
error was addressed straight away. And I dont think Lloyds needs  to do anything  more.
I understand that Lloyds has already sent him two cheques for £25 each, which  have not yet 
been cashed. While I dont think Lloyds needs to pay any additional  compensation, if Mr A 
has misplaced the cheques or is unable to cash them for any reason, he should let Lloyds 
know so it can issue replacements.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019. 
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3182436