K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains on behalf  of her son, Mr D. She says National Savings  & Investments 
(NS&I) couldnt find the details of his Premium  Bonds  and is concerned that they may not 
have been entered into the monthly  prize draw.
background
Mrs D says NS&I  was unable to confirm any details of her sons Premium  Bonds until she 
found a certificate  and sent it to them. She had been  asking them  to trace details of Mr Ds 
bonds since around May 2018, whilst corresponding about another account.
NS&I wrote to Mr D in June 2018, it said an account  had been  found and that itd send a 
Bond Record separately. But this wasnt done. Mrs D wrote again in July 2018 asking it to 
trace the bonds.
NS&I agrees the Bond Record wasnt sent when it shouldve  been. But it later wrote to Mr D 
in January 2019, confirming his Premium Bond numbers and their value of £100.
Mrs D is concerned that as details  of the Premium Bonds werent  provided previously,  they 
may not have been entered into the monthly  prize draw. Mrs D says no correspondence has 
been received  since  the bonds were  taken out in 2003.
NS&I says the Premium Bonds were entered into the prize draw, and that Mr D would only 
be notified in the event  that he won something. NS&I says Mr D hasnt won anything.
An investigator here looked into Mrs Ds concerns. He said he couldnt  see anything  to 
suggest the Premium  Bonds  hadnt  been entered into the prize  draws. And he said Mr D can 
check prize information  on NS&Is website.
Mrs D wasnt happy with that so the complaint was passed to me for a decision,  she still 
feels it cant have been put forward in any of the prize draws  and thinks if it had been it 
would have won something by now.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs D had also raised  concerns about the transfer  of a Childrens Bond to a 
Junior ISA. But shes  confirmed the issue outstanding  for me to address here relates to the 
Premium Bonds.
I can understand why Mrs D has concerns about  her sons  Premium Bonds, and their entry  
into the prize draw.  Mrs D says NS&I had no record of the bonds  at all to begin  with, and it 
failed to send  the Bond Record  when it said it would in June 2018   only doing  so when
Mrs D contacted it again this year. So I appreciate why Mrs D thinks  the bonds may have 
been missed out from the draw.
But Ive not seen anything to make  me think NS&Is  usual  process  wasnt followed. It says 
its impossible for a bond number to be left out, that numbers are randomly generated each 
month and theyre  checked against eligible Premium Bonds. NS&I has also sent us evidence 
showing Mr Ds bonds have been eligible since June 2003.
Ref: DRN31609542NS&I gives a holders number to a bond owner  which is used to link all the Premium Bonds 
that holder may have. So its records for Mr D show  all the Premium Bonds he has. And it 
wouldve sent any confirmation that his bonds had won to Mrs D, as his nominated parent for 
the bonds.
So even if NS&I couldnt find details of the bonds to begin with, its since  been  able to show 
theyve been eligible  for the prize draw. If the only evidence available  was the certificate, that 
Mrs D says she found, then there  might  be more doubt about this. But a record does exist, 
showing when the bonds were taken  out and that theyve been  eligible for prize draws  over 
the years.
Because of this I dont believe Mr Ds Premium  Bonds have been left out of the draw.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Will Weston
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3160954