K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Gracombex Ltd, trading as The Money  Platform, lent to him irresponsibly. He also 
says it didnt respond to his request  to freeze  interest when he was in financial difficulty.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  decision on this complaint  on 21 August 2019.  A copy is 
attached and it forms part of this final decision.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Cs complaint in part and asked both parties to let me know if they had anything to add.
Neither Mr C nor Gracombex sent me anything else to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been sent anything else to consider I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings. My final decision  is therefore the same as my provisional decision,  for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  in part. Gracombex Ltd must put things  right by taking the steps 
set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33529822COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C says Gracombex Ltd, trading as The Money  Platform,  lent to him irresponsibly.  He also says it 
didnt respond to his request  to freeze interest when  he was in financial difficulty.
background
Mr C had two loans with Gracombex, as follows:
A loan for £250  on 19 March 2018 which  was repaid
A loan for £750  on 9 May 2018, with three repayments of £306-£418,  which I believe is still 
outstanding
Mr Cs case  was considered  by two adjudicators. The most recent recommendation by the second 
adjudicator was that Mr Cs complaint be upheld in its entirety.  Gracombex didnt  agree, so the 
complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Gracombex needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr C could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Gracombex should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Gracombex was required to establish whether  
Mr C could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
Ref: DRN33529823other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments. And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before Gracombex provided Mr C with his first loan, it carried out a credit check and obtained  some 
information about his income and expenditure. From what Ive seen,  Mr C declared a net monthly 
income of £3,300. His expenses  included £1,000 per month in housing costs (rent or mortgage 
payments) and £210  in credit commitments. Overall  (after  factoring in buffers)  Gracombex estimated  
that Mr Cs disposable income was around £1,885. This included £600 of additional household 
income.
On balance, I think  the questions asked by Gracombex were proportionate for what was a relatively 
small loan. I havent seen  the results of the credit check  Gracombex carried out for the first loan but I 
have no reason to believe  the results wouldve been so adverse that it wouldve been  unreasonable 
for Gracombex to lend the £250. Im not therefore planning to uphold the complaint about loan 1. 
I do however think Gracombex acted irresponsibly when it agreed to the second loan.  Ill explain why.
Gracombexs credit  check for the second loan revealed  the following  information:
Mr C had about £14,500  of unsecured debt
Mr C had four live short-term loans  and between  13 and 17 settled  short-term loans
The total value of Mr Cs short-term loans was £1,211
I understand Gracombexs point that the live loan  information  could be inaccurate due to delays 
reporting the closure  of the loans to the relevant credit reference agencies   and I accept  that this 
could be the case. But I dont intend to place much weight  on that particular piece  of information.
Whats more relevant  in my view is that there was only a short-break between the two loans. And for 
the second loan Mr C borrowed  three times as much. Despite there being  only a short break, Mr Cs 
credit commitments elsewhere also appear to have increased significantly  also by about  threefold   
from £210  to £600 per month.
So at this stage, Gracombex  knew both that Mr C had recently accessed a large number of short-term 
loans from other  lenders  and that he was returning to it for new credit very soon after repaying 
another loan.  I think its reasonable to conclude that the bulk of the short-term loans  were recent 
loans, given that four were still reported as being live.
I think  Gracombex shouldve realised  at this point it was likely Mr C was likely  having  problems  
managing his money  and was likely borrowing in a way which was unsustainable  for example to fill 
a systematic hole in his finances, or because he was in a cycle of using high-cost  loans to repay or 
mange other debt.
In these circumstances, I think  a responsible  lender would conclude that further lending would be 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful   and Im planning to uphold Mr Cs complaint  about the second 
loan. I consider my proposed  redress for loan 2 will also fairly address Mr Cs complaint about interest 
and charges as I plan to tell Gracombex to remove these.
putting things  right
I understand theres still an outstanding  balance  on the second loan. So I plan to tell Gracombex to 
rework the loan to remove all interest and charges and to treat any payments made  as if they were  
payments towards the principal. If Mr C has already  paid Gracombex more than £750, it will need to 
Ref: DRN33529824refund any amount above this adding  8% simple interest per year from when Mr C made  the 
overpayments until the date of settlement.
If Mr C has paid less than £750, I remind Gracombex it should  treat him positively and sympathetically 
in relation to any repayment  plan.
Gracombex should also remove any adverse information  it has recorded about the second loan from 
Mr Cs credit history  but it only needs to do this once the loan has been repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires  Gracombex to take off tax from this interest. Gracombex must give 
Mr C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and to tell Gracombex Ltd to put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Ref: DRN3352982