K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains through  her representative about  the whole of life policy  she has with Sun 
Life Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited.
Shes unhappy shes been  told to pay a much higher amount  to maintain the current  sum 
assured on the policy. She thinks the policy should  have been  reviewed more regularly to 
prevent such large increases. 
For ease of reading I will only refer to Mrs P.
background
Mrs P took out the reviewable  whole  of life policy in 1999. She received a review  letter  in 
2018 explaining that the premiums would need to be significantly increased in order  to 
maintain the current  sum assured. 
Mrs P complained to Sun Life who didnt uphold her complaint. In summary, they said there 
were two provisions where  the monthly  premiums may increase. There  was an automatic 
annual increase based on changes  in the Retail Price Index (RPI).  There was also the 
contractual plan review  which  took place every  five years. 
The first contractual  plan review where an increase was needed was in 2013.  But a further 
increase had been needed in 2018  in order to support the level of life cover on the policy  
until the next review.  Overall, they said theyd administered the policy  in line with its terms.
Mrs P then brought  her complaint to this service  where it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. He looked into her concerns but didnt  uphold her complaint. 
The investigator said Sun Life had received the opinion  of an actuary  in deciding the new 
premium, as required by the policy. And he thought the increase was in line with what could 
be expected based on the policy terms. Sun Life also offered an option  to maintain the same 
premium for reduced cover, which he thought was a reasonable step.  
He thought Sun Life were only required to review the policy  every five years,  so they didnt 
need to make an earlier recommendation to increase  the premiums.  He also didnt think  Sun 
Life were required to change the fund manager  earlier or take other additional steps  to 
intervene when  the fund performance was below  expectations.
Ref: DRN34760342Mrs P didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint and make a 
decision. In summary,  she thought:
Sun Life said in December 2018  the benefits  and charges on the policy was a 
monthly total of £167.35 per month.  However,  Mrs P had been instructed to pay for 
that year £124.65. Had she been instructed to pay £167.35 then she wouldnt be in 
this situation.
The premium payment in 2014  was above  the life cover  cost plus policy  fee. This 
meant for the five years  prior, more money would  have been going towards 
continuation of the life policy  in later years.
There wasnt an option to pay the Life Cover Cost. In correspondence from Sun Life 
shed seen nothing  that states  the consequences of paying below the charges of the 
Life Cover Cost plus policy fee.
Between the years 2015 to 2018,  more money  could have been  paid into the policy. 
This was critical as this money could have contributed  towards the ongoing 
affordability of the policy.
Sun Life said in February 2019 that if Mrs P pays £187.27 that may be enough to 
maintain the cover for 2019. Why was this option  not given earlier?
In February 2019 she received a letter from Sun Life about fund performance tables 
and quarterly review.  She hadnt previously received any correspondence of this 
nature. She would have had the option  of either switching funds or contributing more 
towards to investment  element of the policy. Potentially this could have made the 
policy in future years  more affordable.
The investigator said Sun Life dont owe a duty of care with regards to fund 
management. However, Mrs P received a letter  in July 2019 where Sun Life said they 
are switching  funds. This shows  they have a duty of care to inform their customers 
about fund performance.
The policy terms and conditions say and at any date which the Company  deems  
appropriate, but not less than once every  five years. Although it isnt mandatory, Sun 
Life can review the policy  during  the 5 year period. If there isnt enough money being 
contributed to any policy, it would be prudent of the company to act in the best 
interests of the customer offering  best advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I will now explain why.
I can see Mrs P has very strong feelings  about  this matter. The cost of her policy has 
increased substantially,  and this will no doubt  have an impact on her. Ive read and 
considered everything  she has submitted. However,  my findings  will only focus on what I 
consider to be the key issues at the heart  of this complaint. 
reviews
In my opinion the key issue Mrs P has raised is whether Sun Life should have reviewed the 
policy earlier  and let her know if her premiums werent enough  to meet  the cost of life cover. 
This could  have potentially allowed for any increase in premiums to be made earlier  and in 
smaller increments. And this could possibly have reduced the need for a large  increase to be 
made to her premiums following the five-year review.
Ref: DRN34760343So Ive considered what Sun Life were required to do under the terms of the policy. They  are 
required to review the policy at least once every  five years. And then set a premium  which  
they think would be enough to keep  the protection benefits in force  until the next review. 
From what  Ive seen theyve reviewed the policy once every  five years, which  is in line with 
its terms. Im therefore satisfied theyve met their requirements.
Even though  Mrs P is correct in saying they can review the policy more frequently, I think  
they would  only do this if there was a need  to do so  such  as a large  unexpected 
development. I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect them to review the significant 
number of policies  they administer more  frequently.
I say this because  there  would be additional costs due to an actuary having to review  each 
policy and this could  potentially lead to higher charges. So, I cant  fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong  in not reviewing the policy more frequently. 
option to only pay the cost of life cover
Mrs P has also asked  why she wasnt given the option to pay the life cover cost before 
February 2019. 
In early February 2019, Sun Life told Mrs P that because she hadnt taken up one of the 
policy review options,  they were  unable to guarantee her policy for the next five years.  And 
they would  need to use the value of her policy to pay the policy charges. When the policy 
value had been used up cover would  end, and the policy would have no value. They  
estimated that would happen in less than one year.
Later that month, Mrs P asked Sun Life if she could make payments of £187.29 (which was 
an amount Sun Life had previously said was the cost of life cover  in January 2019). Sun Life 
confirmed that she could do this, but it may not be enough to keep her cover  in force until the 
next review. They also confirmed that if Mrs P wanted to set a premium to cover the charges 
for the rest of her life, the premium  required  would  be £641.89  per month.  
I appreciate why Mrs P would want to only pay the cost of life cover  but this isnt how the 
policy was set up. The policy works  by Sun Life setting premiums which they think will meet  
the life cover costs  for the next five years. Because life cover  costs increase as the 
policyholder gets older, the premiums  set at the review are higher than the cost of life cover. 
This allows for a portion  of the premiums to be invested, and this is meant to offset the 
increased cost of cover of the five-year review  period. If the premiums are equal to the cost 
of life cover  then theres no surplus to invest  and the policy wouldnt have any buffer for later 
years.
So, I dont think just paying the cost of life cover  would  have been a suitable option  for Sun 
Life to have offered  to Mrs P. And it therefore follows  that I cant see theyve done anything  
wrong in not providing this option  to Mrs P.
Shes also queried why she was only asked to pay £124.65 in 2018 when the charges were 
£167.35. This was because the increase in premium for 2018  was based on changes to RPI 
and not based on a review of the cost of life cover  compared to what  Mrs P was paying. 
Because a contractual  five-year review  didnt take place until December 2018, Sun Life 
wouldnt have known  before then that there was a shortfall in her premiums  compared to the 
cost of life cover. 
Ref: DRN34760344fund switch
Mrs P has asked  why she wasnt provided with any correspondence regarding fund 
performance prior to February 2019.
Ive reviewed the annual statements she was sent over the last three years. I can see that 
they contain information about switching funds and give details of how to access  a wide 
range of information about the unit-linked funds including  fund performance,  how the funds 
are managed and a quarterly review of worldwide  markets. So, Im satisfied Sun Life gave 
Mrs P details of how to access fund information  if she wanted to. 
Mrs P also said the fund manager  should have been changed earlier  because  the fund had 
been under-performing for three years. I appreciate  the point she is making but from what  
Ive seen, Sun Life could  change  funds  under the terms  of the policy.  And the change  was 
made because the new fund had a similar risk profile and objective, but lower management 
charges compared  to the previous fund. So, it doesnt seem  an unreasonable  decision to 
make.
As long as the investments were in line with Mrs Ps original  fund choice, Im satisfied it was 
within Sun Lifes commercial discretion as to which funds to select.  Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest they exercised that discretion negligently  and so its not something I would look to 
interfere with.
I appreciate Mrs Ps concerns with the situation and recognise she will be disappointed with 
the outcome Ive reached. But having  given the matter careful consideration, I dont feel able 
to conclude that this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.  
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3476034