K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) handling of a 
subsidence claim they made under  their building insurance policy.  
background 
Mr and Mrs A are represented by their daughter, Miss A. For ease, Ill refer to Miss A, but 
any references to her include Mr and Mrs A. And any references to RSA also include its 
contractors. 
The history  to this claim is extensive, and spans over several years.  Some  of the earlier  
issues have already been considered by another ombudsman  at this service.  In his final 
decision, my colleague  said RSA needed  to accept the subsidence  claim and utilise the base 
specification in the schedule of works prepared by Mr and Mrs As surveyor in 2006  in order 
to carry out repairs. This complaint is focused on whats happened since  that decision. 
The scope of works was agreed in April 2017.  They were expected to take six months, and 
began in May 2017, after Mr A had moved out of the property. Mr A moved  into alternative 
accommodation a short distance away. However, after the works  began,  Mr A often returned 
to the site. He locked  the contractors out of the property, wouldnt allow them  to carry out 
their work and, on occasion, was verbally  abusive  to them.  The contractors were concerned 
Mr As continued presence would  pose a health and safety issue.
In order to progress  the works, RSA considered hoarding the property, but felt it was too 
expensive in the circumstances. Both Miss A and RSA agreed  the best course of action 
would be to change  the locks to the property. However, Mr A continued to attend the 
property, despite  being asked not to.
With a couple  of months left to go before the works  were due to be completed,  a meeting 
was held at the property.  Mr A expressed  concern about the quality of the works  that had 
been carried out, and whether the works  would be completed on schedule. He also said one 
of the reasons hed attended the property was to collect his post, and it was broadly agreed 
there was little point  in organising a redirection  at that point. Miss A arranged for the post to 
be collected and it was agreed  Mr A would stay away from the property.  RSA stated that if 
Mr A returned to the property again  it would  remove its contractors immediately, and cash 
settle the remainder  of the claim.
The expected completion date was extended  to December 2017. However, just before the 
works were due to finish, Mr A returned  to the property. As a result,  RSA withdrew 
contractors and offered  a cash  settlement  for the outstanding works in May 2018. 
Unhappy with the offer from RSA, Miss A brought the complaint to this service.  In summary, 
she was unhappy  with RSAs decision to withdraw  the contractors and said the cash  
settlement wasnt sufficient to carry out the remaining  works.  In addition to this, Miss A said 
several items in the property were  damaged,  including  the front door and a table. She 
expressed concern  at the works carried out, saying the furniture in the kitchen no longer 
fitted, the tiles and cupboards supplied for the kitchen  werent  those that had been agreed,  
and there  was further cracking in the external walls.  Miss A also said the property  hadnt  
been left in a safe condition as the electrics were untested. 
Ref: DRN30674732The investigator concluded that RSA was entitled  to withdraw its contractors and had offered 
a fair amount to cash settle the claim. He was satisfied RSA hasnt been notified  of some of 
the damages Miss A said had occurred but as it had been  notified of the damage to the 
table, it should  pay £250 for the repair, unless Miss A was able to show the table couldnt be 
repaired. 
Our investigator also said RSA had demonstrated  its contractors had supplied  the kitchen 
tiles and cupboards  instructed by Miss A, and the difference in the thickness of the tiles was 
the reason the kitchen furniture didnt  fit as it originally had. He also thought RSA had taken 
steps to make the electrics in the property safe, by providing a replacement  cooker.  
Miss A didnt accept  the investigators  findings, and this matter  has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, in considering all the 
information, my decision  focuses on what I consider to be the main issues in the complaint. 
I can understand why Miss A, and her parents, were unhappy with RSAs decision to 
withdraw their contractor from the site. However,  Im satisfied  this was a reasonable step for 
RSA to have taken in the circumstances. 
Its clear RSA considered  a number of options to prevent Mr A from attending the property. 
Im satisfied RSA took reasonable steps  to make  the property a safe environment for the 
works to be carried out, and it gave clear warnings to Miss A and her family about what 
would happen  if Mr A continued  to attend the property. 
Miss A has said the works wouldnt have been finished by the date Mr A was due to return 
home, and RSA accepts  this. However, from what Ive seen, the remainder of the works  
could have been carried out while Mr A was living in the property. However,  it was his 
previous behaviour towards the contractors which meant RSA wasnt  prepared  to leave its 
contractors on site. I recognise Miss As concerns about the electrics in the kitchen. But I 
think RSA took appropriate  steps to correct this as quickly as it was able to, by providing  a 
replacement cooker  as it wasnt able to refit the original one. However, like our investigator I 
also think the property  was habitable before Mr A returned home.
Miss A has said she believes the cash settlement of £14,187.62 is insufficient for her parents 
to have the remaining works completed. She set out in some detail the works she 
considered to be outstanding. I note that, for the most part, RSA broadly agreed  with 
everything Miss A noted, apart from a few issues. RSA also included  an allowance to 
complete any electrical issues. 
Like our investigator,  I consider RSA took all the steps Id expect it to in arranging  for its 
contractors to carry out the work.  However,  I believe a cash  settlement was the appropriate  
step to take in the circumstances. Im satisfied the cash settlement should reflect what  RSA 
would have paid if its contractors had completed  the works.  While this is likely to be less 
than it will cost Mr and Mrs A to have the works carried out, Im not going  to direct RSA to 
increase the cash  settlement its already made. This is because  Im satisfied  it made every  
attempt to complete  the works  for Mr and Mrs A, and it only decided  to cash  settle the claim 
as a last resort. 
Ref: DRN30674733Ill turn now to the concerns Miss A raised about the floor tiles and kitchen  cupboards, and 
specifically those not being the ones agreed. Ive also carefully  reviewed the exchange of 
messages between Miss A and the contractor. Having done so, its clear the contractor  
adhered to her choices  in terms or the cupboard layout and kitchen tiles. Im not going to 
recommend RSA take any action in respect  of this part of the complaint.
Miss A also had some concerns about the kitchen  furniture  no longer fitting as it had before 
the works  were carried out. RSA says this was primarily due to the material choices. It says 
the tiles and plaster boarding were  thicker than those originally in the kitchen. It also says 
that dry lining was also required when  the works were carried out. While I can understand 
Miss As frustration around the end result of the works, I dont think RSA or its contractors 
are responsible for the fact some of the furniture doesnt fit where  it originally did. 
Miss A has stated shes not confident  in the quality of the workmanship carried  out at 
Mr and Mrs As property.  Shes got two primary concerns here. Miss A says the external 
walls are starting to show signs of cracking,  and the contractors also caused significant 
damage to her parents home while they were on site. 
While Miss A says she raised  all her concerns  about  these  issues  with RSA,  shes  not been 
able to show this. Our investigator asked RSA about these issues, and it said given the time 
that had passed since Miss A says the damage  took place, it would need  to see evidence  
these damages were incurred as a result of its contractors, before considering  meeting costs  
to put these issues right. 
However, it was clear Miss A raised concerns about  damage incurred to the front door and a 
table while  the works  were taking place. 
The front door was noted to have  been damaged relatively early  into the course of the 
works. However, there  isnt any evidence to suggest  how the door was damaged.  While  
Miss A thinks it was likely RSAs contractors, RSA pointed out it could have been carried out 
by Mr A. Theres  no evidence of the damage being carried  out as a result  of an insured 
event, or that the damage was more likely carried out by RSAs  contractors. On that basis, I 
dont intend to direct RSA to make a payment towards the damaged  door under this claim. 
Miss A expressed concern about  the damage  to a table that remained in the property while  
the works  were ongoing. She said she thought it would cost a significant amount to repair  
but hasnt yet provided a quote for this. RSA has provided  an estimate of £250 to repair  the 
table. Given Miss A has had the opportunity to provide an estimate for the cost of the repair 
of the table but not done so, I think RSA should pay the £250  offered for the repair.  
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should  pay 
Mr and Mrs A £250 for the repair to the table.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Ref: DRN30674734Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3067473