K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993. Mr
and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland trading  as Halifax mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
The PPI covered Mr T only so I have  mainly considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs T aware that the PPI policy  was optional  and gain their
consent before adding  the PPI to their mortgage. There  isnt much paperwork available from
the sale of the policy.  From the information  that is available I dont have enough  to say that 
Halifax didnt present the policy as optional to Mr and Mrs T, or that Mr T didnt choose to 
take it.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI policy  to Mr T, so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him. Mr T has told us he was a member of his employers healthcare programme when 
he took the policy. He also had some  savings and could have relied on his parents to help if 
he was unable to make the repayments. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
employee benefits Mr T was entitled  to. It would also have protected  his savings so they 
could be used towards any other expenses he may have had. While it is likely Mr Ts parents 
would have wanted to offer support, this offer of help would have been dependent  on their 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed. So, I dont think  this offer of help could 
be guaranteed.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, he wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to, or limits  on the PPI cover and Mr and Mrs T seem to have  had a need for
the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr T chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for Mr and Mrs T if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have said including that they were pressured into 
taking the policy.  But pressure is a subjective argument and for me to uphold  this complaint 
for this reason  I would need to see sufficient evidence that Mr and Mrs T were pressured into 
taking the policy,  which I havent seen.
So, Mr and Mrs Ts comments dont change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN32404672my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3240467