K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his granddaughter, Miss S. He says that TSB Bank plc refused 
to allow  him to withdraw money from his granddaughters instant access  savings account for 
which he is the authorised representative. He wasnt happy with the customer  service that he 
received and wants compensation for this. 
background
Mr K visited  a branch  of TSB on 12 April 2018  to withdraw £24,000 from his granddaughters 
instant access savings  account. 
Mr K says that he was told that he could only withdraw £15,000.  He says he was also told 
that, if he didnt  accept it, or leave the premises, the bank manager was going to call the 
police. Mr K says that this caused  him severe  distress and embarrassment. Mr K says that 
he decided to accept  the £15,000.
When the police arrived, they spoke to Mr K. He says that the bank manager admitted in 
front of the police that the money  was available but that he had made a decision  to withhold 
it. 
Mr K also says that he was told not to return before the following Tuesday as he wouldnt be 
served. 
Mr K raised a complaint about the service that he had received.  
The bank considered this complaint and found  that there hadnt been  a banking error.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with this outcome so he came  to us. 
Following enquiries from our adjudicator, the bank  found that they hadnt  given Mr K poor 
service. They said the following:
The manager had made a decision not to pay the £24,000 because there wasnt 
enough money in the branch. 
They dont keep  large amounts of money in the bank for security  reasons. 
They advised Mr K that the money wouldve been available if he had pre-ordered it. 
They offered Mr K a bankers draft and also offered to call another branch that was 
15 minutes drive away to see if they had enough  money. 
Mr K was being threatening and abusive  whilst being served.
Our adjudicator investigated further.  She found  that there had been no banking  error. She 
said that, as the account was Miss Ss, she was the complainant. Our adjudicator said that 
she could only consider what impact was caused  to her rather  than Mr K as the individual  
who operates the account. 
She didnt  think that only being able to withdraw  £15,000 on 12 April 2018 had negatively 
affected Miss S. So, no compensation  was payable as it wasnt available to third parties. She 
thought that it was reasonable  to accept that banks may have limited cash available.  
Mr K didnt agree with this decision as he considered that he was a party to the complaint. 
Also, as he was the only one entitled to operate the account, he thought  he should be 
compensated for any poor service  received.  
Ref: DRN39438772Our adjudicator didnt  agree so Mr K asked for the complaint to be looked at by an 
ombudsman. So, it has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Im afraid that Mr K and Miss S wont be happy with my decision.  I dont think that the bank  
has done anything  wrong. I will explain why. 
The eligible  complainant in this case is Miss S. I understand  Mr Ks frustrations at not having 
what happened to him considered as the main part of the complaint. But I can only consider 
what happened to him if it had an impact  on Miss S. 
The bank did address their letter to Mr K when considering the complaint.  But, this was 
incorrect as Miss S is the account holder. 
Also, I note that Mr K filled in our complaint  form adding himself as a party  to the complaint. 
Regardless of this, it is for us to apply our rules and decide who the complainant  actually is. 
And, because Miss S is the sole account  holder, she is the complainant. 
Finally, it is also irrelevant  that Mr K operates  the account as required by the bank. The point 
still stands that Miss S is the account  holder and so, the only one able to raise  the complaint. 
Mr K is able to represent her but no compensation is payable for any distress and 
inconvenience that he has suffered unless it impacted on Miss S. And then, it would payable 
to her only. 
I have fully considered  this complaint  and, although I am in no doubt that Mr K was frustrated 
at not being able to withdraw  £24,000, I cant see that this negatively  affected Miss S. 
It appears that the remainder of the money  wasnt withdrawn until later so there appears to 
have been no rush for it. So, I cant see that Miss S suffered  as a result  of not getting the full 
£24,000 on 12 April 2018.
Because of this, I dont think that any compensation is payable. 
I am sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr K hoped for but I hope  that I have explained the 
reasons for my decision clearly. 
my final decision
As Miss S didnt suffer any distress or inconvenience by not getting the full £24,000 on 
12 April 2018, I dont  require TSB Bank plc to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
Ref: DRN39438773ombudsman
Ref: DRN3943877