K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Fiuk.com  Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out to protect a loan hed taken 
out with another provider. Mr G applied for the PPI over the internet.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Fiuk disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.  
Mr G applied for his PPI cover online  without speaking to Fiuk.  So he wasnt given any 
advice about the suitability of the policy. But Fiuk did need to give Mr G enough information 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting - in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
One of the significant limitations of the policy is that, if youre self-employed,  you need to 
totally cease trading due to financial  insolvency, which would  make  it harder for a self-
employed person  to make an unemployment  claim than someone who was employed.  So 
this should have been highlighted  and drawn  to Mr Gs attention. But I dont think  and I dont 
think it was. I also think that this wouldve mattered to Mr G, as he was a self-employed 
person.
Fiuk says that Mr G wouldve been given the option to click on the policy  terms which he 
could then read  and that it was clear  that the policy wouldnt be able to cover Mr G when 
times were slow. It also says that Mr G would need  to register  for and be in receipt of Job 
Seekers Allowance   and that is the same  as for an employed person.  But the terms of the 
policy for a self-employed person went further than this and Mr G he could also have applied  
for his PPI without actually clicking on the policy terms. So I dont  think  that Fiuk did enough 
to draw his attention to them. And Mr G wouldve had and I dont think Mr G wouldve bought  
the policy if Fiuk had given him enough information  about the PPI. 
So, I think Mr G has lost out because  of what Fiuk did wrong. It follows that I uphold  the 
complaint.
putting things right
Fiuk should put Mr G in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy  
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and Fiuk should:
Pay Mr G the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Ref: DRN30920342Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Fiuk can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Fiuk to take off tax from this interest. Fiuk must give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Fiuk.com Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3092034