K820x#14complaint
Mr G says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold  him payment protection  insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2000.  The PPI was added to     
Mr Gs credit card account when he applied for the card by post.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Gs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr G disagrees with the 
adjudicators opinion so his complaint has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
In the postal application Mr G completed, there was a box for Mr G to tick if he wanted  PPI  
and that box has been ticked.  If Mr G hadnt  wanted PPI, he couldve left the box blank and I 
dont think it wouldve been  added to his account. So I think Mr G chose to take the PPI 
knowing he didnt have  to.
I dont think RBS recommended  the PPI to Mr G, so it didnt have to make sure it was right 
for his needs. But RBS did have to give Mr G enough information  about the PPI for him to 
make an informed choice  about whether he wanted it. 
Its likely  some of the information RBS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr G wouldve still bought the policy  anyway if RBS had given 
him clearer information. I say this because:
Ive looked  at the terms  of the policy and what  Mr G says about his circumstances 
when he took out the PPI. From this I think he was eligible for the cover. And I dont 
think he was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations in the terms that mightve 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim. So I dont think there was 
anything to stop him claiming the full policy benefits  if hed needed to. 
I think Mr G could have found the policy useful. I say this because Mr G says he only 
got three months sick pay and didnt have anything  else  like savings or other 
insurance policies   to fall back  on if things  got difficult. The policy couldve paid 10% 
of the card balance  for up to 12 months in the event of long term ill health,  or if Mr G 
lost his job. And this wouldve been  on top of his existing  benefits. So I think the 
policy offered some  potentially useful  cover.  
In conclusion, I dont  think that Mr G has lost out because  of anything RBS may have done 
wrong  so it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN34358912my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3435891