K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly charged him 
additional premiums  for his motor insurance  policies.
background 
In 2017 Mr B had a multi-car  insurance policy with Admiral, which hed held for some years. 
He had a bump in his car and the other driver  made  a claim against his policy. While looking 
into that claim Admiral found out that Mr B had some points on his licence and had attended 
a speed awareness  course it wasn't  previously  aware of. Admiral  said if it had known of 
those things it would have charged him higher premiums for the policy years which renewed 
in 2015 and 2016. So it said he should  pay the extra sums  it would have  charged. It initially  
said that was around £2,670. But, in recognition that some if its service could have been 
better, it reduced  that amount to £2,000.
Mr B didn't  pay the extra premium and Admiral cancelled his policy.  And it said he still owed 
it sums  for his time on cover and for the backdated  premiums. It referred  the matter to debt 
collectors. 
Mr B brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Admiral had dealt with Mr B 
fairly. So he said:
Admiral shouldnt pursue Mr B for any extra premium for the policy beginning in 
2015.
It was reasonable  for Admiral to charge  Mr B the extra  sum outstanding for the 2016 
premium, for Mr Bs car alone, which stood  at around £512.
Admiral shouldn't have cancelled Mr Bs policy. So it should remove any charges  for 
cancellation and only charge Mr B for the time the policy  covered  him. He added  that 
it should give Mr B a letter to confirm  that the policy was cancelled because of its 
mistake.
Admiral should offer Mr B the opportunity  to buy back the claim in order  to restore  his 
no claims discount (NCD).
It should pay Mr B £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Admiral agreed to the adjudicators recommendations.  It noted that Mr B still owed it about 
£180 for his time on cover. So, rather than paying  Mr B £150 compensation, it suggested 
simply reducing the balance outstanding for the time on cover to nil. Our adjudicator agreed 
that was a sensible suggestion.
Mr B remained unhappy  so the complaint's been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it 
and my award will be the same as the adjudicators recommendations. 
Ref: DRN38144852In bringing this complaint Mr B has made number of detailed points. But in this decision I will 
focus on what I see as being the key outstanding issues.
additional premiums
Mr B accepts that he made a mistake in not telling Admiral about his fixed  penalty notices 
and completion  of a speed awareness  course. And Admiral appears to have accepted  that 
this was a genuine mistake  on his behalf  and that he didn't deliberately  keep that information 
from it. As such, Mr Bs mistake is known in the insurance industry as a careless  
misrepresentation. And theres a specific  law - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) - which  sets out what  insurers may do in such  a 
situation.
CIDRA says that insurers can't  simply  impose  an additional premium. Where there hasn't 
been a claim it allows  them  to cancel a policy or offer to settle any claims on a proportionate 
basis. But we think its fair for an insurer to offer its policyholder the option of keeping  the 
policy open in return for the additional  premium  the insurer would have charged but for the 
misrepresentation. And in those circumstances the insurer will agree to cover  any claim in 
full.
In Mr Bs case, the policy beginning in 2015 had lapsed without any claim being  made  
against it before Admiral  learnt of the misrepresentation.  In that situation CIDRA doesn't  
allow Admiral to impose an additional  premium.  So it wasn't fair for it to do so for the policy 
year beginning in 2015.
But the situation for the 2016  policy  for Mr Bs car was different. Thats  because  another  
driver had made a claim against  Mr Bs policy. So, when Admiral received  that claim, it could 
have told Mr B that it would settle  the claim on a proportionate basis. By that I mean  it could 
work out what percentage of the revised premium Mr B had actually paid and apply this 
percentage to any settlement amount for the claim. So for example, if Mr B had paid 40% of 
the full premium then Admiral would have only paid 40% of the claim. Mr B would then have 
been left to pay the remaining 60% of the cost of the claim directly to the other drivers 
insurer.
In this case if Admiral had decided to settle the claim  proportionately Mr B would have  had to 
pay around £1,040 to settle his proportion of the claim. But it didn't do that. Instead  it paid 
the claim in full, which was roughly £1,812. And rather  than paying the claim proportionately 
it charged Mr B an additional  premium  of roughly £532 for his car. So, in deciding not to 
settle the claim proportionally  it left Mr B in a better  position financially.
That means Mr B has benefited  from Admirals  decision  not to settle the claim proportionally 
and instead to charge the additional premium. So in the specific  circumstances of this case I 
think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to charge Mr B the additional premium owing for his 
car for the 2016  policy  year. Mr B has since paid £20 towards the additional premium  so I 
understand theres a balance remaining of roughly £512. So I think its reasonable for 
Admiral to collect that from Mr B now.
policy cancellation 
Given that it wasn't fair for Admiral  to charge Mr B all the additional premiums that it did, it 
also wasn't fair for it to cancel the policies when it did. That said, I understand that Mr B had 
already taken out alternative polices with another insurer and Admiral backdated the 
Ref: DRN38144853cancellation to the start date of those  polices. And, as insurers  won't  generally  allow  dual 
insurance for motor  polices, then Mr B would have  been required to cancel his policies with 
Admiral in any event. But to ensure that the policy cancellation doesn't  have any effect  on 
Mr B going  forward Admiral should remove the cancellation from any internal and external 
records and write to Mr B to confirm that the cancellation was its mistake.
opportunity to buy back the claim
Mr B remains unhappy that his NCD has been affected by the claim on his policy.  I 
understand that Mr B wished to settle  the matter privately. But, it might help if I explain that, 
the other driver made a claim  through her own policy. And her insurers arranged the cars 
repairs. And it was that insurer which put the claim to Admiral.  So it was the other drivers 
decision to claim, rather than to settle the matter  privately. And that wasn't something 
Admiral had control over.
I've seen that Mr Bs already told Admiral he didn't wish to buy back  the claim. But Im not 
certain hes fully understood the situation.  Theres been a successful claim made  against  his 
policy by another  driver.  That means his NCD will be affected by that claim. So it was 
reasonable for Admiral to reduce his NCD accordingly. Mr Bs only viable route to reinstate 
his NCD is to reimburse Admiral for the amounts  its paid for the claim, known as buying 
back. If he does that Admiral will restore  his NCD. So it won't be affected  by the claim. As 
such I think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to again give Mr B the opportunity to buy 
back the claim now as that would  restore  his previous NCD position. But, if Mr B doesn't  
wish to accept that offer hes under  no obligation  to do so.
compensation and balance  owed  for time on risk
Its clear Admirals handling of the case has been a source of distress  and inconvenience for 
Mr B, for which I think compensation is warranted. I agree with our adjudicator that £150  
would be a reasonable sum in the circumstances. But I also think Admirals offer to reduce 
the balance outstanding for Mr Bs time on cover from £180  to zero is reasonable. And given 
this offer is of further benefit  to Mr B I think thats  fair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN38144854my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Recalculate the sums  it says Mr B owes for backdated premiums. In doing so it may 
only charge Mr B for the additional premium of £512.85 for his car for the policy year 
beginning in 2016.
Remove any reference to its cancellation  of the policy from any internal and external 
records and write  to Mr B to confirm that the cancellation was its mistake.
Reduce from approximately  £180 to zero the amount  that Mr B owes for his time on 
cover as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3814485