K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Castle Trust Capital Management Limited  made a mistake  when it 
calculated the maturity value on a three year bond  which matured in April 2019. 
background
In March 2016 Mr S invested £15,240 in a three  year Maturity Income Fortress Bond. There 
was an administrative mistake initially by Castle Trust, during which  Mr Ss investment was 
paid into the wrong  type of bond. This was quickly put right within the same month, and had 
no bearing on Mr Ss actual investment. 
Mr S received a letter on 14 April from Castle Trust which confirmed that the total interest 
payable on maturity would be £1,460.43.  Although the Annual Equivalent Rate (AER) of 
interest was quoted as 3%, the maturity  value in fact reflected a higher rate of interest  of just 
over 3.19% on the basis that Mr S would receive  interest for the whole month during which  
the offer was open (March) and for three days after the maturity  date  that being the time it 
would take for the interest to be paid to his nominated  bank account. 
In 2019 Mr S duly received the capital  he invested  as well as the additional £1,460.43 
interest. However, he considered he was owed an additional £45 and complained. Castle  
Trust looked into his complaint  and didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It reviewed the 
calculations and confirmed that Mr S had been paid what he was due under the terms of the 
offer  so Mr S referred his complaint  to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint. She explained to Mr S that he had 
been incorrectly calculating the return he thought he was entitled  to  in particular, whilst he 
was compounding the higher rate of interest of 3.19%,  that wasnt correct. The compound  
rate of interest, or the AER, was 3% - the higher rate of interest, 3.19%, was the actual 
return on the investment  between 1 March 2016  when the offer opened, and 4 April 2019 
when the interest  payment was made. This wasnt compounded,  nor was it ever meant  to 
be. The investigator concluded  that Castle Trust hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree. In short,  he said:
£15,240 at 3% interest quarterly compounds to 3.1943%  and by year three he ought 
to have been paid £16,747   in other words he was due £1,507  interest, not £1,460.  So 
there was a shortfall of £47.
The investment was made on 14 March  so he was due interest for a further 21 days  at 
3.1943%. This he calculated as £30.78. 
Mr S was therefore  asking for a total payment of £100 to also account for the trouble 
and upset pursuing the matter had caused him. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN30017052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, but I agree 
with the investigator  and have very little to add to what she has already told him. 
The offer documents are clear in terms of the interest due and how it would be paid. Whilst I 
understand Mr Ss point  that the letter he received  confirming what  he would be paid at the end 
of the three year term was sent to him after he invested, its equally clear that he didnt raise that 
concern at the time.  That suggests to me that the interest he was told he would receive  over the 
term of his investment,  was in fact the interest  he also anticipated he would receive.  
In any event, whatever  the reasons why Mr S didnt  raise his concerns  initially, Im satisfied 
that there  has been no error in the way that Castle Trust has calculated  the return on Mr Ss 
investment. I think the explanations it has provided, as well as the explanations the 
investigator has provided, are very clear. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Mr S was told in advance that the AER on the investment was 
3%. And Im satisfied he was also told that he would also receive  interest for the month of 
March (the offer period) as well as the three days after maturity  that being  the time it took 
for interest  payments to be made to investors.  I dont think the reasons why Castle Trust offer 
to pay interest for those  additional  periods is relevant. And Im satisfied that to account for 
that additional time outside of the actual investment (which ran from 1 April 2016 to 31 March  
2019), the actual  rate of interest  applied  to his investment was 3.1943% - in other  words  
higher than the 3% AER between 1 April 2016  and 31 March 2019.  Finally, Im satisfied that 
properly applying that rate of interest  to Mr Ss investment of £15,240 means that he ought to 
have received interest amounting to £1,460.43   which is in fact what he received.  
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling on this issue,  Im sorry to say that his 
calculations are incorrect and nothing further  is due to him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3001705