K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that a debt she has should  not have been sold on.
background
Miss L defaulted on a loan in 2011  and was taken to court  by the creditor,  who Ill call 
company B. They subsequently obtained a charging  order against her house.  The debt has 
since been sold to various debt management companies. Its recently been taken over by 
Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  (Cabot) who have asked a solicitors  practice,  
who Ill call company M, to manage the account. Miss L thinks  Cabot should not have taken  
over the account  or asked M to manage it as the courts  order  was only in favour of company 
B.
Cabot explained  that they were now the legal owners of the debt and they didnt think  they 
were doing  anything wrong  when asking company M to manage it.
But Miss L disagreed  and referred her complaint to this service where our investigator  
provided an opinion.  The investigator explained  that company B were legally entitled to sell 
the debt and didnt think Cabot had done anything wrong when asking company M to 
manage it. 
Miss L disagreed with the investigators view and she therefore asked for a final decision to 
be made by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss L but I agree with the investigators view on this complaint.  
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Most creditors specialise  in lending money  and not in chasing  debts.  So they will often sell 
debts to debt collection  companies and they are legally entitled  to do this. Those  companies  
often appoint others to manage the debts  on their behalf or may,  in turn, sell the debts again.  
So I dont  think Cabot  have done anything wrong here.
When the debts  are sold on the company  acquiring  the debts must follow the same rules as 
the original creditor:  they cant  add interest for instance. Here,  Im persuaded there hasnt 
been a change. I can see, for instance, that the new company have agreed to allow a 
continuation of the payment plan Miss L agreed.
So I dont  think theres evidence that Cabot  has done anything  wrong here and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN35680872my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3568087