K820x#14complaint
Mr S, a sole trader, complains that Nash Warren Insurance  Services  Limited didnt  include  
loss of earnings cover in his commercial motor insurance policy.  He wanted a refund of his 
premiums or compensation for his loss. 
background
Mr S said he took out a policy  through Nash Warren in 2016 and asked for it to include  loss 
of earnings cover. He renewed his policy twice. But when he made a claim, he found that 
loss of earnings wasnt included.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. The sales call from 
2016 wasnt available,  but she looked  at the agents fact finder  record of the call and the 
policy documents. She couldnt see that loss of earnings was mentioned.  She thought  Mr S 
could have raised this with Nash  Warren  if hed checked his policy  documents and found it 
wasnt included. So she couldnt  say Nash Warren had done  anything wrong.
Mr S thought  the sales call would  show  he asked  for loss of earnings. He said that for three  
years he was led to believe that he had loss of earnings cover. Mr S asked  for his complaint 
to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration that he wasnt provided with the cover  that he thought  
hed asked for. I can see that he considers  that this caused him a significant loss. 
Nash Warren wasnt able to provide  the sales call for me to listen to due to the passage of 
time. Theres no requirement for it to retain such calls.  So I cant reasonably  say that its 
done anything  wrong in this. 
But Nash  Warren said that if Mr S had asked it for cover for loss of earnings, then this would 
have been noted on the fact finder completed by its agent during the sales call. Like the 
investigator, Ive looked at this document and I cant see that loss of earnings was 
mentioned. 
Nash Warren also said it didnt offer motor  trade  policies with this cover at all. I can see from 
the policy terms and conditions that losses are excluded  in each of the policies sold to Mr S 
unless they are specifically covered by a section of the policy.  
The policy documents sent to Mr S when he first took out cover and at each renewal  dont 
mention loss of earnings. They do ask Mr S to check that the policy  meets his requirements 
and to contact  Nash  Warren if he had any concerns. I think it was for Mr S to check that the 
policies met his needs. But I cant  see any evidence  that Mr S contacted  Nash  Warren to 
raise any concerns about the policy schedule not mentioning loss of earnings. 
Ref: DRN31543822So I cant see evidence that Mr S asked for loss of earnings cover when he first took out his 
policy through Nash Warren. I think it was for Mr S to check his policy  documents to make  
sure the policies met his needs. I cant see evidence  that Mr S ever contacted Nash  Warren  
to raise any concerns  about loss of earnings  cover not being included in his policies. So I 
cant reasonably  say that Nash  Warren has done anything wrong. In that case, I cant  require 
Nash Warren to refund Mr S his premiums or pay him any compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154382