K820x#14Complaint
Mr N has complained that Nationwide Building Society wont  refund transactions, which  he 
says he didnt make.
Background
Mr N said his debit card was used to make  disputed transactions,  totalling £5,769  from May 
to December 2018, while he was in prison. As he couldnt have made the transactions, he 
asked Nationwide  for a refund.
Nationwide decided not to refund him. It said the transactions were made with a new debit 
card and PIN, which were  sent to him in prison.  It also said the card was used in European 
countries, which  he had visited before he was arrested, including  one in which he lived for a 
while. It believed his wife and son were living in that country and this was more  than a 
coincidence.
Mr N disagreed with Nationwides decision,  so he asked this service  to investigate. He told 
us that hed asked the prison  staff to destroy  the card and PIN when he received them 
because he didnt need them. 
He also said he changed prisons on 13 November 2017. He thought hed opened  a new 
account with Nationwide  before he was transferred and that it had sent the new card and 
PIN to the former prison address.
And he said he has an ex-wife who lives in a different continent altogether.
An investigator looked into his complaint and decided not to uphold  it. He explained that the 
transactions were  made with the card and PIN for the new account  and so it couldnt have 
been destroyed by the prison staff. He concluded that Mr N must  have  given his consent to 
someone using  his card and PIN and so the transactions were  authorised  by him.
Mr N disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.  I will 
explain why but first let me set out the timeline because it wasnt  clear from the view. 
The timeline is based on the evidence  we received from Nationwide and the documents  
which Mr N sent us.
Ref: DRN37639202November 2017 Nationwide closed an account in error
13/14 November  2017 Mr N moved  to another prison
12 January 2018 Mr N opened  a new account
12 January 2018 Nationwide sent a new debit card (first debit card)  
which had been reported lost
19 January 2018 Nationwide blocked the first debit card
24 January 2018 Nationwide sent another  debit card with PIN (second 
debit card)
25 January 2018 Mr N wrote a letter to Nationwide  confirming receipt  of 
a debit  card and PIN
26 April 2018 Prison officer shredded a debit card
May to December 2018 Disputed  transactions took place
17 August 2018 Cheque deposited
1 December 2018 Card reported  stolen and blocked.
Generally, Nationwide can hold Mr N liable for the disputed transactions  if the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks evidence  that the first debit card was cancelled which means  
the second card and PIN were  used to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable  Nationwide to hold him 
liable. So, I also need to think about  whether the evidence  suggests that its more likely than
not that Mr N consented to the transactions.
The disputed transactions started in May 2018 with a cash  withdrawal but there  were  no 
more transactions  until August 2018.  On 17 August 2018, Mr N deposited a cheque for 
£5, 769.11 by post. This was followed by multiple cash withdrawals and card payments at 
food places, petrol stations and on travel  in GB and abroad. In addition,  there  were  multiple  
balance inquiries before the cheque was deposited  in his account.
A document  from the prison records that a Nationwide visa card and PIN were 
destroyed in April 2018. Nationwide  has confirmed that the disputed transactions were  made  
with the second debit  card and that Mr N confirmed  receipt in a letter dated 25 January  
2018. As this card was used, then it couldnt  have been destroyed  in April 2018. So, I can 
only conclude that a different card was destroyed - perhaps the old card for the closed 
account or the first card for the new account, which was posted out on 12 January 2018.
Ive considered whether staff might  have stolen his card and PIN. Certainly, there was the 
opportunity. But whoever  used the card held on to it. And the multiple balance inquiries 
suggest they knew the account was about to receive money. Again, if he posted  the cheque  
to Nationwide  from prison, then someone  from amongst the staff would know  this too.
However, the card was used in a country  he once lived in and in countries en route  by land
and sea to that country. I dont think this is a coincidence. I think  its unlikely a member of 
staff would use his card to make  this journey. Its more likely they would withdraw  cash or 
spend on luxury items, not food petrol or travel  of this nature.
I think its more likely, therefore,  that his card was used by a family member or friend. And it
makes sense that he would hand  over his card and PIN to a family  member, so they had 
recourse to money while he was in prison.  
Ref: DRN37639203On balance, considering all the evidence,  Im afraid I can only conclude  that Mr N gave his 
consent to someone  using his card and that consequently he authorised  the transactions.  
Im afraid he is still treated as having  authorised  all the transactions,  even if he only gave  his
consent for some transactions.
For these reasons, I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to refuse a refund.
Im sorry  to send such disappointing news but I hope the reasons for my decision are clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 September  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3763920