K820x#14complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) agreed  to settle 50% of her 
motor insurance claim, on a without prejudice basis. Miss S says she didnt agree to any of 
this as she was not responsible for the incident. She believes this settlement still suggests  she 
was in some  way at fault and it will have an impact on her future  insurance  arrangements.   
Miss S does not believe  RSA or their agents have  acted  in her best interests. Her 
submissions are that RSA have  been  unable to evidence  why they agreed to settle the claim 
in this way. And she has said the whole matter has taken far too long. 
Miss S is represented in this complaint by Mr J who has made  substantial  submissions on 
her behalf.  
background
Miss Ss policy was arranged through a scheme for which RSA is the underwriter. The terms 
of the policy  explain  that the contract of insurance  is between RSA and the scheme provider  
and that Miss S is an insured person under the policy.  
On 5 September 2016 Miss S was driving  to work along a country  lane. On a bend in the 
road she collided  with a driver in another car coming from the opposite direction. The other  
car was driven by Mr F. Following the incident Miss Ss car was declared  a write off. Miss S, 
who is disabled, suffered injuries  and was taken to hospital.  
Solicitor C was arranged  by RSA to act on behalf  of Miss S to make  a personal injury  claim 
against the third party.  And RSAs claims handlers (RSAM) approached the third partys 
insurer (TPI) to discuss Miss Ss claim. 
The TPI wrote to RSAM at the end of September 2016 and explained they would be 
disputing liability. RSA instructed Solicitor L to defend the claim. Solicitor L accepted service 
on behalf of RSA in November 2016. 
RSA appointed a loss adjustor. And in March 2017 the loss adjustor completed an 
investigation into what had happened on 5 September  2016  and filled out a Motor Insurance  
Report (MIR). 
In mid-September 2017 the TPI confirmed to RSA that it was giving notice they had sent 
proceedings to County  Court. A copy of the claim form and the particulars of claim were  
included. To summarise, the particulars of claim explained they believed  Miss Ss negligent 
actions had caused the accident. And a court date was listed for the start of June 2018. 
In February 2018  exchanges between Solicitor C and Solicitor  L led to an agreement  in 
March 2018 to stay Miss Ss personal  injury claim in order to allow Solicitor  L to deal with 
Mr Fs claim first. RSA was listed as a second  defendant in the case.  
Solicitor L reviewed all the available evidence and concluded the matter should  be settled 
with an offer to pay 50% of the claim,  but this should  be done on a without prejudice basis in 
order not to affect  Miss Ss personal  injury claim. The offer was discussed informally  with the 
TPI who accepted  it. 
Ref: DRN39965192The court date was then adjourned to allow Miss S to finalise her counterclaim. This was 
settled for £20,000 in November 2018.  
Mr J was appointed  by Miss S to act on her behalf  in this matter in March 2018. Mr J wrote 
to RSA on several occasions and spoke with the claims handlers to find out what  evidence  
had been relied upon  to conclude Miss S had been in any way responsible for the incident in 
question. RSA apologised for the delayed response  and replied to Mr J on 13 April 2018.  On 
10 May 2018 Mr J responded and accepted that Solicitor L was permitted to settle, but that it 
still wasnt clear  why the claim had been settled on the basis  it had. 
On 13 June 2018 RSAM replied to Mr J and explained that the claim was settled  on the 
evidence available  and that they and their solicitors had considered  if the matter was to 
proceed to trial, it was likely there would be a finding of 50/50  split liability. Therefore, the 
claim was settled based on legal advice and the most likely outcome on economic grounds, 
under delegated authority.  
As the claim was settled  on a without prejudice basis  to avoid determining liability, our 
investigator explained their own investigation  also did not include determining  liability for the 
incident. They concluded RSA had acted fairly  in terms  of how the claim had been handled 
and settled, but acknowledged there had been  delays  in replying to Mr J for which  they said 
RSA should issue  an apology. 
Mr J, on behalf of Miss S, did not accept the investigators opinion. And RSA said it was 
open to issuing an apology as put forward by the investigator.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account any relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules,  guidance and standards,  codes of practice as well as what  
is considered to have  been good  practice at the time. 
At the heart  of this complaint is Miss Ss insistence  that she is not at fault in causing this 
incident. I recognise how strongly  Miss S feels about  this, and of course she witnessed  what 
happened. But I feel it important to be clear  that our service is not able to decide who is 
liable in cases of motor insurance claims  such as this  if necessary, that would be for a 
court to determine.  Our role is to decide  if RSA,  as the insurer, has acted fairly and 
reasonably when assessing Miss Ss claim. 
Mr Js submissions are lengthy so I will not repeat them all in this decision.  Instead, I note 
his overarching concerns in Miss Ss case are that RSA has carried out a poor investigation 
into this claim  and that theyve failed to act in Miss Ss best interests. 
Mr J has said Solicitors L appointed by RSA should  have  been acting in Miss Ss best 
interests as the insured person under the policy and that they should have dealt with her 
directly  which they didnt. 
I appreciate Mr J has said much on the responsibility of solicitors  and in what  capacity  they 
are acting and for whom, but Im afraid  specific complaints  about  the solicitors  own actions 
are not something  this service can consider. And I cant ignore that the insurer  was entitled  
to instruct solicitors from their panel to respond  to the claim in question if they wished.  
Ref: DRN39965193Im also aware that Solicitors  L were in contact with Solicitors C about the matter  and from 
the correspondence made available  to me, I can see there  was sharing of information  
between the two  including the photos  taken  after the incident.  The exchanges between the 
solicitors were permitted as set out in the terms of the policy, and had Miss S wished,  she 
could have made alternative  legal arrangements if she had wanted to or if shed felt they 
werent acting in her best interests.  
RSA also instructed loss adjustors to investigate  what  had happened.  The MIR completed  by 
the loss adjustor described the events of 5 September 2016, confirmed that a witness  
statement had been obtained from Miss S and having reviewed the location of the incident, 
included a description of the area.  It also referred to particular Case Law and sections of the 
Highway Code. 
Im aware the report is unclear in that it says both that the claim should be disputed  in full, 
but also that consideration should be given  to consider liability be apportioned equally as 
(without independent witnesses) a partial defence  may be sustainable.  However, Im mindful 
the MIR wouldve been part of the considerations for RSA when assessing this claim, so the 
discrepancy doesnt automatically  mean  the claim shouldve  been concluded differently. 
Mr J has referred  to the apparent lack of evidence  from Mr F and highlighted Miss Ss 
submissions that, following the incident,  Mr F agreed hed crashed into her. From the 
submissions, I can see that amongst other things RSA would have been aware of what 
Miss S said happened straight after the incident, RSA would also have been aware of the 
limits of the independent witness statement as well as the reasons for Mr Fs decision to 
dispute liability. 
I understand Miss S and Mr Js strength of feeling in this matter. But like with most  insurers 
RSA has the right to decide how it will settle  a claim and decide whether it is prepared  to 
defend the case if it were  to proceed to court. Court proceedings are uncertain  and 
expensive, so its not unsurprising that insurers are cautious about going to court  and 
consider the likelihood  of success when making their decisions. And from what Ive 
reviewed, I believe  RSA have acted fairly in assessing Miss Ss claim by relying on the 
submissions available  and the counsel of their solicitors.
I understand Miss Ss concerns that this matter affects her premiums, but as I dont think 
RSA has done  anything wrong  here, I wont be asking them  to do anything  here.  I would also 
remind Miss S that as the claim  was settled on a without prejudice  basis,  she is still able to 
pursue further  action  elsewhere should she wish to do so. 
Finally, Im mindful  our investigator proposed RSA should issue an apology to recognise  
communication with Mr J could have  been  better. I can see RSA previously apologised to 
Mr J in the email of 13 April 2018.  And as this complaint is not Mr Js complaint, Im unable  
to say that RSA should do anything further on this point.  
However, I do recognise that the time taken in reaching settlement was lengthy, so Ive 
reviewed the available submissions and correspondence with this in mind.  And while I think  
there were pockets of time where RSAM  couldve been more proactive, I dont think overall 
delays were solely due to RSAM. Given the number of different parties  involved,  its not 
surprising the claim  was taking time as often RSAM was waiting on other parties to reply. In 
view of the available information its therefore difficult for me to hold RSA accountable for the 
overall time taken to settle this claim.  
Ref: DRN39965194my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Miss Ss complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3996519