K820x#14Complaint
Mr O1 has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his accounts and registered a 
CIFAS marker  against  his name.
Mr O2, his father, represents him.
Background
Mr O1 says he cant  open any banks accounts  because Barclays  has registered a fraud 
marker against his name. He wants Barclays to remove it.
Mr O1 had two accounts with Barclays.
Between 23 February 2017 and 6 March 2017, Mr O1s current  account  received three  
credits, totalling £31,826.81.  The money  came from the accounts of customers  at other 
banks who had been scammed. Barclays returned most of the money to the sending banks 
but approximately £4,700  had been withdrawn from Mr O1 s account.
Around the same time, two additional  accounts were opened online with Barclays in Mr O1s 
name.
Barclays carried out an investigation and decided to close  Mr O1s account.  It subsequently  
registered a CIFAS marker against  his name.
Mr O1 complained to Barclays about  the CIFAS marker. At the time, he believed  Barclays 
thought hed opened the two additional accounts  fraudulently and that was why it had 
registered a CIFAS marker. He told Barclays hed been the victim of identity fraud and that it 
wasnt him who opened the new accounts.
He said Midland Trains  tried to prosecute him for travelling  without  a ticket to Leicester,  a 
city hed never visited. It transpired  it was a case of mistaken identity. The offender  was able 
to supply his name,  postcode and accurate date of birth but didnt spell his name correctly. 
Mr O1 said all charges  were unconditionally  withdrawn.
He believed the same person was using  his identity and had opened the two accounts. 
He asked Barclays to remove  the CIFAS marker.
Barclays decided not to remove the marker.  It said it had registered the marker because his 
account had received monies fraudulently and not because  someone had opened  the two 
additional accounts. Also, some of the fraudulent funds  had been  withdrawn from his  
account at ATMs and ASD machines  using  his debit card and PIN. Funds were also 
transferred  to other accounts  using an ASD machine and Mr O1s mobile banking app.
Mr O1 wasnt happy with Barclays  decision so he brought his complaint  to this service.  He 
told this service hed reported  his card lost. Barclays ordered a replacement card, which  he 
said was posted  to his home address. He said he didnt receive it and he was living away  at 
university. He confirmed that he hadnt  shared his PIN with anyone  else.
An investigator looked into his case but he didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that 
Barclays were  entitled  to register the CIFAS  marker because  of the fraudulent  activities  on 
his account. And he was persuaded it was more likely than not that Mr O1 authorised the 
Ref: DRN35409132withdrawals and transfers because there was no point of compromise  for the debit card, PIN 
and mobile banking app or phone.
Mr O1 and Mr O2 disagreed with the investigators view. 
They have asked  for an ombudsmans final decision. They want to see the CCTV footage 
from the cash machines  and they have questioned the reliability  of the banks  evidence.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr O1, Mr O2 and Barclays  have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here,  only those which  form the basis  of my 
decision. However, I can assure Mr O1 and Mr O2 that Ive read the file, including their 
comments and evidence.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Barclays registered a CIFAS marker  against Mr O1s name  because  monies from fraudulent  
activities were  paid into his account and some  of it was withdrawn. I think its highly unlikely 
a random third party  did this. Whoever  transferred  that money  into Mr O1s account knew 
they could remove  it, otherwise  there  was no benefit to using his account. And its not clear  
how a random stranger  would even know the account details. 
So I do need  to consider  whether Mr O1 authorised the withdrawals and transfers, either  by 
making them himself, or by allowing someone  else to use his account. Then, I can consider 
whether Barclays was entitled to register the CIFAS marker.
The money was removed from the account   by ATM  and ASD cash withdrawals, a cash 
withdrawal in branch,  a bill payment at an ASD machine and by a transfer to another  
account via the mobile banking app.
Unfortunately, the electronic audit report for the card transactions no longer exists. Barclays 
says it only keeps this report  for a limited period. However, Im satisfied the genuine card 
and PIN were used  in order for the cash withdrawals and bill payment to take place. Its 
common knowledge that the ATM  and ASD transactions  simply couldnt  have  happened  
without the card and PIN. Also, Barclays said the ASD transactions needed the user to input 
Mr O1s date of birth.
Similarly, the transfer was done through the mobile banking app. At the very least, Mr O1s 
mobile phone and his log in details  wouldve been  needed to make the transfers.  In addition, 
Barclays said his card was needed to set up a new mandate.
Im satisfied, therefore, that all the transactions were authenticated.
Ref: DRN35409133However, Mr O1 said he didnt make these transactions and the relevant regulations say that 
authentication is not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays  to hold him responsible.  So I 
also need to think  about whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely than not that he 
consented to the transactions  being  made.  And from what Ive seen, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that he did consent. 
Debit card and PIN
Barclays said all the cash withdrawals and the ASD bill payment   were made with a debit 
card, which was issued  in branch on 23 February  2017 in Mr O1s university town, (which, 
incidentally, is about ninety minutes  by public transport from his home address  so not far 
away). Ive seen a screen shot of the note made on Mr O1s records. It confirms the card 
was issued that day. Confusingly, it also shows it was despatched to his home address. 
Mr O2 has questioned  whether  a local branch can issue  a debit card on request. Ive 
checked Barclays website and the bank  can issue temporary replacement cards  in branch. I 
think this is what happened. Besides, the card was used on 23 February until 27 February, 
so it couldnt have been in the post during that period.
Barclays also explained that Mr O1s PIN was needed to get the replacement card. And it 
didnt issue a new PIN.
Its possible a third party, impersonating Mr O1, went into the branch and requested  the 
card. But that person couldnt get it or use it without the PIN. Yet, Mr O1 maintains he didnt  
share his PIN with anyone else and didnt keep  a written note of it. So, on his own 
admission, he is the only person who knew the PIN. 
I note Mr O1 said he never received the card that was used to make the transactions. 
However, the banks  notes record  that he visited a local branch on 10 March 2017, after 
being told his account was under review,  and produced amongst other  things, his bank card.  
Im afraid the only logical conclusion I can draw from this information  is that Mr O1 collected  
that card. 
Mobile app
A transfer  was made to another account via Mr O1s mobile banking  app and from his mobile  
phone on 24 February 2017.
The activity  log for his mobile  banking app shows that the transfer was made from a device, 
which hed used since 13 January 2016  for genuine  transactions. This device was registered 
to the same  mobile  number as the one he gave this service. 
Mr O1 didnt mention losing his phone or lending it to someone else. He didnt say that hed 
shared his log in details  with anyone else. Again, theres no explanation for how a third party 
would have his phone  or log in details without his consent.
Barclays said the debit  card and PIN were also needed to set up the transfer,  as the payee  
was new. And according to the banks notes,  Mr O1 had his debit card on 10 March  2017. 
The same device was used to transfer £0.10  from one of the newly opened accounts to the 
current account. 
Ref: DRN35409134Ive also seen the login data for mobile banking during February  2017.  There was an 
increase in activity  on 23 February. There were 27 logins that day, which suggests he was 
expecting something  to happen. And there were multiple logins through  to the 28th, indicating 
he was still in control of the account.
Taking everything into account,  I consider  its more  likely than not that Mr O1 authorised  the 
transactions. He might  not have made them himself. I think its equally possible he allowed  
someone else to use his account. Indeed  the £0.10 transfer looks like a test, which a third 
party might do. However, he must have been complicit  with what  happened  because of the 
level of information,  which the third party  had and which they could only have got from 
him. And Im afraid Mr O1 is treated as having consented to the transactions  if he allowed 
someone else to use his account.
Now I have to consider if Barclays were entitled  to register  the CIFAS marker.  
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good reason to 
believe it could have  suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press  
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should  be more  than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker  can have  on someone,  the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached  to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Based on the evidence  I consider it was reasonable for Barclays  to believe it had grounds for 
pressing criminal charges  as a result of the activity on Mr O1s account.  I think  the CIFAS 
maker should  remain.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3540913