K820x#14complaint
Ms J, represented by a claims  management company, complains that she was mis-sold a 
series of savings plans by a predecessor business of Sanlam Financial Services  UK Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained that I thought the complaint 
should be upheld  because the savings  plans had been unsuitable for Ms J. I concluded, in 
brief, that while she had a savings need,  the plans in question had been too costly and 
restrictive given her circumstances. 
Ms Js CMC  accepted my provisional  decision.  Sanlam responded to say it felt the complaint 
was finely balanced  but accepted that the plans having been sold in quick  succession  wasnt  
ideal because of the additional monthly charges incurred each time one was taken out. So, it 
agreed to pay the compensation Id suggested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted my decision,  my findings remain  as set out in my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I uphold  the 
complaint and direct Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited  to pay compensation to Ms J as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37935172COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Ms J, represented by a claims  management company,  complains  that she was mis-sold a series of 
savings plans  by a predecessor business of Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited.
background
Ms J was sold her first savings  plan in December  1988, with a monthly premium of £40. This was 
followed by two further  plans  in June 1989 and September 1989,  both with monthly  premiums of £20. 
At the time of the sales Ms J was aged 24 and working,  earning around £11,000 per year  although  
this rose slightly over the course of the sales. Miss J surrendered the first of the policies in April 2009, 
the second in December 2014 and has maintained the third to date.
In 2019 Ms Js CMC made a complaint  to Sanlam. It said that it felt the savings plans had been mis-
sold, primarily because they were long-term  plans that would  need to be maintained for at least 25 
years in order to produce a reasonable return, which  wouldnt  have been  suitable given Ms Js age at 
the time. The CMC  said Sanlam had medium-term plans available that wouldve offered Ms J greater 
flexibility, and although  these had a higher minimum  premium of £50, she wouldve been paying more 
than this each month by the time of the second sale. The CMC also questioned the need for the life 
cover provided  by the plans.
 
Sanlam didnt  uphold the complaint. It said, in brief:  
The documentation pointed out the disadvantages of surrendering early.
The cost of life cover was minimal
The short  time between sales was probably  explained by the increase in Ms Js salary.
The documentation mentioned some  specific objectives   a car purchase,  etc  but these 
were not identified  as the sole purpose of the plans.
Its satisfied Ms J recognised these were long-term plans and the paperwork wouldve  
confirmed this.
£80 a month was an insignificant amount  given Ms Js income and there was nothing to 
suggest the plans had been unaffordable.
The CMC referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached the same conclusion as 
Sanlam  that the plans had been suitable. The CMC didnt accept  this, reiterating that there would 
have been no need for long-term  plans for someone in Ms Js situation. But, most  importantly, the 
business had more  suitable  medium-term plans  available  that wouldve  afforded Ms J better returns 
and more  flexibility. 
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I think it should  be upheld. 
Its certainly feasible  that someone of Ms Js age at the time of the sales might want to start making 
provision for later life and retirement. But Ive seen nothing that leads me to conclude  that in 1988/89 
that sort of long-term  planning was Ms Js priority. The documentation  from the sales, which includes 
handwritten notes, appears to indicate a number of potential objectives (car purchases,  private  
schooling, etc) that werent things that Ms J wouldve  been aspiring to when she had reached her 50s 
 the sort of length of term these plans  would need to achieve  an efficient return. 
Ref: DRN37935173I accept the plans could be surrendered early, or the money accessed,  but it wouldnt  have been 
beneficial to do so, and I cant see it as being likely that Ms J wouldve  adopted such  an inflexible 
approach to her savings  needs if shed been fully informed of her options. 
I accept also that the medium-term plans  offered  by the business had a minimum  monthly  premium in 
excess of the premium for Ms Js initial  plan. But by the point of the second plan, or certainly the third 
 taken out within only nine months  of the first  Ms J was certainly paying sufficient  each month  to 
have the more flexible medium-term plan.
It strikes me that Ms J was repeatedly sold savings plans that werent suitable  for her and without 
being fully appraised of the disadvantages of accessing the money  in the medium term. The sales 
documentation mentioned that the plans would  be most  efficient  if maintained  for around 25 years. 
But I think Ms J wouldve  been very reliant upon the adviser and proceeded on the basis that he or 
she would make  a suitable  recommendation that was in her best interests. 
And this was not an insignificant amount of money as Sanlam has suggested. It represented more 
than £200 per month in todays money. I dont see any way that it can have been suitable to 
recommend that a 24-year old make that sort of commitment for 25 years or more   not in the 
absence of documentation  that supports long-term saving as actually being  Ms Js priority objective. 
In concluding that the plans were mis-sold to Ms J, I must decide what represents  fair compensation. I 
think its clear that she wanted to commit the money to savings and could  afford to do so. And I note 
the CMCs  point about the alternative of a medium-term plan. But that option  wouldnt have been 
available initially, because of the minimum  premium. So, taking one out wouldve  meant surrendering 
the first plan and restarting with a medium-term plan.  As such, I think  its difficult  to conclude that a 
medium-term plan, or plans, would been chosen. As such,  I think  its reasonable to simply  use our 
standard benchmark formula for someone who was prepared  to take some risk with their money.
Sanlam should therefore  pay compensation of D+E for the first two plans, where:
A = the premiums invested up to the date of surrender; 
B = a return on each premium in A at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly,  
from the date it was paid to the date of surrender; 
C = the surrender value Ms J received; 
D = (A + B) - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender; and 
E = simple  interest at 8% per year on D, from the date of surrender to the date of payment.
And D for the third plan, which is still in operation, where
A = a refund  each of the monthly  premiums paid to the date of settlement;
B = a return on each premium in A at Bank of England base rate + 1% compounded yearly,  
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement;
C = the value of the plan at the date of settlement;
D = (A + B) - C = the investment loss at the date of settlement.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I receive,  Im currently minded to uphold 
the complaint and direct  Sanlam Financial Services UK Limited to pay Ms J compensation as set out 
above.
Ref: DRN3793517