K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Miss B in May 1999. The policy  
was added to Miss Bs credit card account after she sent in an application in the post.
Miss B says through  her representatives that she doesnt think  the PPI policy was suitable 
for her as she had significant sick pay entitlement. She says if the costs  & benefits as well as 
optionality of the policy had been made  clear  then she would have  declined  it. She thinks  the 
policy was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made  Miss B aware that the PPI was optional  and 
she chose to take it. I say this because I can see on the application form she 
completed, that she signed separately to have the insurance, in a separate  box where 
Bank of Scotland offered PPI. She could have not signed inside the box and not taken 
the insurance. So after seeing  this, I think that Miss B was given a choice  to have PPI 
on the form and she agreed to it by signing for it. 
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Miss B so it didnt 
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for her. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Miss B was clear, fair and not misleading  so that she could  make  an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Miss B, I dont think it would have made a 
difference as I think she would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Miss Bs circumstances  at the time, I think  she 
would have found  the cover useful. She has told us that she was entitled to 6 months  
full and 6 months  half sick pay with her employer at the time of sale,  but the policy  
would have provided  a useful benefit in a difficult  time and for longer. The policy  would 
have paid in addition to her sick pay, for up to an extended  period of 12 months if she 
couldnt work.  So I think she would have found  at least  some benefit  in having the 
cover.
Ref: DRN36667492 I dont think on this occasion Miss B was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations within the policy such as those given  for pre-existing  medical conditions.  
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Miss B. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the same reasons  that I have already given. 
The PPI policy  was competitively  priced and affordable.   
So I dont think Bank  of Scotland mis-sold Miss B this PPI policy. This means Bank of 
Scotland dont have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B. But Bank  of Scotland  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss B about  that. Because Bank  of Scotland  didnt 
tell Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Miss B any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3666749