K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 2001. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. To keep things  simple in my decision, Ill just say FICL when Im referring  to the PPI 
seller or to FICL.
Mrs E is unhappy that PPI was added to her store card, saying that she does not recall 
asking for the policy to be taken out.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mrs E disagreed with these findings. She has questioned what  information is available that 
shows it was made  clear to her that she did not have to take out PPI. Mrs E has also asked 
whether there is a statement  available from the person  who sold her the policy  that confirms 
she was told about the consequences  of taking out PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Es complaint for the following reasons:
 When bringing her complaint to this service,  Mrs E stated that she did not recall  taking 
out PPI on her store card. She has questioned  whether  it was made clear to her that 
PPI was an optional product, and has also questioned what the seller told her about 
the policy.
Clearly I cant  be certain  about what exactly was discussed when the policy  was sold in 
store. I must therefore  reach a conclusion on this matter based on the weight of 
evidence provided. In addition I am mindful that the sale took place a number of years 
ago, in my view making  it more difficult to recall in detail.
On the credit agreement  that Mrs E signed when she took out the store card,  there is a 
section relating to the PPI. Mrs E signed this section of the form, requesting  that PPI be 
taken out. Other sections of the form that related  to other  options available were not 
selected by Mrs E. Overall, based  on the content of the store  card application, in my 
view it is more likely  than not that PPI was presented  to Mrs E as an optional  product, 
and that she chose to take it out.
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
 I cant be sure whether FICL gave Mrs E sufficient information about  the PPI to make 
an informed choice  about it. However  Mrs E doesnt appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover. In addition, based  on her circumstances, 
it looks like the policy could have  been useful to Mrs E if she wasnt  working due to 
Ref: DRN33187912disability or unemployment.
On balance my view is that better information  would not have led to Mrs E deciding not 
to take out the policy. 
Although I appreciate Mrs E will be disappointed  with my findings, my conclusion is that the 
policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3318791