K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Financial Administration Services  Limited  (Fidelity) is charging  her 
administration charges for her SIPP after being  told that it would be provided fee-free for its 
lifetime. She also complains that she has been  given no option about how the charges 
should be paid.
background
Mrs F took out a SIPP with Fidelity in 2008. At that time Fidelity  was running a promotional 
campaign that offered consumers taking a SIPP a number of benefits  including no set up 
fees and no annual administration fees for the lifetime of the SIPP. She was told that the 
only charges shed need to pay would be the annual  fund management charges.
At that time consumers that didnt benefit from the introductory offer would need  to pay an 
annual charge to the SIPP administrator of £315. But no consumers paid any administration  
charges directly to Fidelity. Part of the fund management charges were  rebated to Fidelity  by 
the fund managers.
Following regulatory  changes in 2015 it was no longer permissible for this charging  
arrangement to remain in place.  At that time the Financial Conduct  Authority required 
Fidelitys administration  charges to be paid directly by the consumers. So Fidelity  wrote to all 
the affected consumers in July 2015 to advise them of some changes  to its charging 
structure.
As a result of those changes a new charge, payable directly to Fidelity, was levied on SIPP  
customers based on the value of their investments. But to offset  those charges the annual 
fund management  charges were reduced. In the letter that Fidelity sent to Mrs F explaining 
the changes it estimated  that it was likely the overall charges Mrs F would need  to pay would 
be reduced.
In 2018 Mrs F complained  to Fidelity about  the charges  she was now paying. Fidelity didnt 
agree with her complaint.  It pointed out that the offer shed received in 2008  related to the 
annual charges that would normally be payable to the SIPP  administrator. It said that these  
charges were still not being levied as per the original  agreement.  And it explained that the 
charges now payable directly to Fidelity had always been payable  albeit  that previously 
they formed part of the annual fund management charges.
Mrs Fs complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the 
changes to the charging structure of Mrs Fs SIPP had been made in line with the terms and 
conditions of the plan. He thought the changes had been clearly communicated and the 
charges were shown  to Mrs F on each of her annual transaction  statements. So he didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. 
Mrs F didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN33236332my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
It is clear that the way in which Fidelity is reimbursed for the services  it provides  to Mrs F has 
changed. When she first took out her SIPP the charges paid to Fidelity were  somewhat 
hidden by them forming part of the annual fund management charges. So I think that is what 
enabled Fidelity  to make the introductory offer in 2008 saying that the only charges that 
would be payable would be those fund management charges.
Following the regulatory  changes in 2015 Fidelity was no longer allowed to bundle its 
charges alongside the fund management  charges. They now needed to be clearly shown 
and paid directly  by the consumer. I can understand why Mrs F feels  that she is now paying 
an additional  administration  charge  that she thinks should be waived as a result of the 
introductory offer she received in 2008.
But as I said earlier, I need to consider two aspects of a complaint. First I need  to consider 
whether the actions of a business  are fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And 
following that, if I thought the business  hadnt  acted fairly, I would need to think about 
whether the consumer had lost out as a result. I dont think either of those tests  has been 
met in this complaint.
I think when Mrs F agreed to take the SIPP in 2008 she was happy that Fidelity had fairly 
met its offer to waive the annual  administration  fees. What perhaps she didnt appreciate at 
the time was that Fidelity  was receiving a contribution to its administration as part of the fund 
management charges  Mrs F was paying. But it seems to me that Mrs F was happy to pay 
the level of fund management  charges that were being levied, and so knowing that some of 
that charge would be rebated  to Fidelity was unlikely to have made her think  the SIPP she 
was offered was unattractive.
In 2008 Fidelity would  clearly have been  unaware  of the regulatory changes that would be 
introduced some seven  years later. But in anticipation of events such  as these  the terms and 
conditions of the SIPP would allow Fidelity to make changes to the terms and conditions by 
giving three  months  notice to consumers. I can see that Fidelity  first wrote  to Mrs F about  
the changes in the charging structure in July 2015 before implementing  the changes  the 
following November. So I think that Mrs F was given sufficient notice of the changes.
Ultimately it is a commercial decision for a business on what terms it is willing  to offer its 
products and services.  That isnt something  that we would normally interfere with. Here  I am 
happy that Fidelity  was entitled to make  the changes it did, and that it provided sufficient 
notice of those  changes to Mrs F. If she was, or is now, unhappy with the charges that 
Fidelity is asking her to pay my understanding is that she would be able to move her pension  
investments to another provider.
Ref: DRN33236333For completeness I would also note that even if I didnt think it reasonable for Fidelity to have 
made the changes  I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mrs F has lost out as a 
result of them. From the information I have seen the combined Fidelity administration  and 
fund administration  charges that Mrs F now pays are lower than the charges she paid 
before.
The final area that I have considered as part of Mrs Fs complaint is the way in which Fidelity 
collects the charges  that are due. To pay the charges Fidelity sells some  units in the largest 
holding that Mrs F has in her SIPP. Mrs F says that she would prefer to pay the charges 
from funds held outside the SIPP.
As I noted  before, Fidelity  is entitled to set the commercial arrangements around  its 
products. And I think the method of collecting the charges due falls under that category. So 
once again it wouldnt be appropriate for me to interfere with that. But in saying that I would 
note that Mrs F might be able to effectively pay those charges from outside  the SIPP by 
making some equivalent additional contributions. And there might even be some  taxation 
benefits in her doing so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Financial Administration Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323633