K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend her money that she 
couldnt afford to repay.
Mrs D wants some of the interest  that she paid back from Uncle  Buck.
background
Mrs D took out two instalment loans with Uncle Buck between August and October 2017. A 
summary of her loans  are as follows:
Loan no.
Date of Loan Amount of 
loanNumber of Instalments 
(including max monthly 
repayment)
1 11/08/2017 £500 3 @ £236
2 31/10/2017 £500 5 @ £182
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ds complaint be upheld. The adjudicator  thought 
that Uncle Buck carried out proportionate checks. However, she thought that the credit  
search that Uncle Buck carried out shouldve  prompted it to ask more  questions about      
Mrs Ds other credit  commitments. And that if Uncle Buck had asked  more  questions,  it 
wouldve discovered that Mrs D couldnt afford the repayments on either loan.
The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges that Mrs D had paid on 
the loans. She also asked  Uncle  Buck to pay interest on the refund and remove any negative 
entries about the loans from Mrs Ds credit file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. It says that according to 
the submissions that Mrs D made as part of her complaint,  she had a monthly income of 
£1,300 with monthly outgoings of £1,200. 
Uncle Buck  doesnt  think that the credit  payment that Miss M disclosed was so obviously 
incorrect that it shouldve  challenged  it. 
Uncle Buck  says that there was no evidence  on the credit report it had of eight  outstanding  
loans. Uncle  Buck also points out that its unlikely that Mrs D would have had to repay all of 
this debt in one repayment. 
Uncle Buck  questions why Mrs D continued  to apply for loans from it if she was struggling  as 
badly as she says she was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Mrs D could repay any money that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrowing further. Any checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loans, the repayments and any borrowing history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle Buck had to carry out.
Ref: DRN36677982Mrs D hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck before so it didnt have any lending history to 
consider. Uncle  Buck  says that it asked Mrs D for details of her income  and expenses  
including regular financial  commitments. 
Before agreeing each loan, Uncle Buck recorded  Mrs Ds monthly income to be £1,400  with 
outgoings of £950. The repayments on each loan represented a fairly modest proportion of 
Mrs Ds declared  monthly income.
In the absence of any other evidence to the contrary, I wouldve said that Uncle  Buck carried 
out proportionate checks. However, Uncle Buck has given us copies of the credit  search  
results. These show that Mrs D had opened ten new accounts in the six months prior to loan 
one and nine before loan two.
Mrs D declared  monthly regular credit commitments of £250.  I think that Uncle  Buck had 
enough information to at least  question  whether  Mrs D owed more  to creditors  than shed 
disclosed. 
If Uncle Buck had tried to verify Mrs Ds other regular and short  term lending  credit 
commitments it seemed likely that it wouldve discovered that she was repaying several 
short term lenders  more than £650 around  the time of both loans.   
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says not all of the outstanding loans necessarily fell due to be 
repaid in one payment. As this service is dealing  with a number of Mrs Ds other complaints, 
I can see that when  she applied for loan one from Uncle Buck, Mrs D had already taken out 
four instalment loans with the same lender. 
The four instalment loans were still running  when Mrs D applied  for loan two from Uncle 
Buck. And Mrs D had taken out a further  two instalment loans from the same lender. This 
meant that Mrs D had to make combined monthly  repayments of nearly £300 around the 
time that she took out both loans  from Uncle Buck.
Mrs D also borrowed  from another three  short term lenders before applying for loans one 
and two. 
If Uncle Buck had known  about the other short term lending  commitments,  then I dont think 
it wouldve  agreed to lend as Mrs D was left with a negative disposable income each time. 
I think that Mrs D has lost out so Uncle Buck should pay her compensation. 
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid the loans;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about the loans from Mrs Ds credit file.
Ref: DRN36677983*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mrs D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to put 
things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3667798