K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) provided poor 
service when handling their claim under their home  insurance policy  for damage  caused by a 
leak in their kitchen. They  say the poor service caused them distress and led to delays in 
putting things  right.
background 
Mr and Mrs D contacted  RSA to make a claim on their home insurance policy  for damage to 
their kitchen that appeared to be caused by a leak on 20 June 2018. RSA sent a loss 
adjuster to visit the property on 25 June 2018. After ongoing discussion about  the scope of 
the damage, RSA offered to settle  the claim with a payment of £2587.15 net of £250 excess  
on 12 July 2018.  This offer was made on the basis that it would cover building  work and 
decoration but would not cover damage  caused by damp because RSA said this damage 
was caused by a problem  with the damp proof  coursing which  wasnt covered under the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept that offer and responded with evidence  that the cause of damage 
was the leaking  pipe found  behind  their upper kitchen cupboards in early July. They  also 
provided evidence  that the damp-related damage wasnt  caused  by the damp coursing. RSA 
still said it couldnt cover  the additional  costs but paid the initial settlement offer so that Mr 
and Mrs D could begin to carry out some  work  and arrangements were made for the kitchen 
to be dried out.
Mr and Mrs D werent  happy with this so they complained. RSA looked into the complaint  but 
rejected it in its final response letter of 1st September 2018. However, later in September it 
sent its loss adjusters back  to the property  and, as a result, it reviewed the scope of the 
claim and agreed a final settlement of £8029.69 which was agreed  and paid in October 
2018.
Although the claim was settled, Mr and Mrs D were still unhappy with the poor service theyd 
received so they brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator  initially thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  because  he thought  RSA had caused delays in the way it 
handled the claims process and recommended RSA should pay Mr and Mrs D £350 for the 
trouble and upset  caused by this. Mr and Mrs D accepted his view but RSA didnt. It said it 
hadnt caused the delays  because it had been  waiting  for Mr and Mrs D to send confirmation 
of the cause of damage and it sent in a detailed timeline to back  up its arguments.  It also 
said Mr and Mrs D hadnt lost the use of their kitchen as a result of the damage. The 
investigator then changed  his mind  and thought the complaint should be rejected because 
he couldnt say for sure that RSAs handling  of the complaint had delayed repairs to the 
kitchen. Mr and Mrs D were very disappointed about this so they asked  for review by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The claim itself is now settled so I only 
need to decide whether or not RSA treated Mr and Mrs D fairly  and reasonably  when it 
processed their claim. Based on what Ive seen, I think  the complaint should  be upheld  
because there were problems with RSAs claim handling which  added  to the distress Mr and 
Mrs D suffered as a result of the damage to their kitchen. I also think that RSA delayed the 
settlement of their claim and their ability to reinstate their kitchen as quickly as possible.  I set 
Ref: DRN37247322out my reasons  for this in a provisional decision dated 26 November 2019. Both RSA and Mr 
and Mrs D accepted  my provisional decision  so my findings, as set out below, havent 
changed.
RSA provided a detailed timeline of events in response to the initial view which  I considered. 
I also considered the submissions Mr and Mrs D made about their frustration at the way RSA 
handled their claim and RSAs failure to take account of the information they gave  it about  
the leak in July 2018.
On close consideration  of these submissions, I find that RSA handled Mr and Mrs Ds claim 
poorly. This is because  the leak was already identified as the cause  of damage when Mr and 
Mrs D had their kitchen  units removed to find and fix the leak in early July and they informed 
RSA of this on 12 July 2018. RSAs  loss adjuster confirmed to RSA that the damp  was not 
due to a failure  of the damp proof  coursing on 19 July 2018.  At that stage, it shouldve  been 
clear that the initial scope  of the settlement needed to be reviewed. But RSA continued to 
argue that the cause of damage wasnt clear in its email  of 3 August 2018  and that damp 
related damage  wouldnt be covered in its email  of 6 August 2018.  This was despite  the 
clear information it had received from Mr and Mrs D and from its own loss adjusters  which  
indicated the initial settlement offer wasnt sufficient  to settle the claim. RSA couldve 
arranged for the loss adjusters to go back to the property at the end of July in light of the 
new information. This wouldve resolved the issue of the settlement  amount much more 
quickly and wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs D to make arrangements  to line up the kitchen 
fitting earlier.
RSA says that Mr and Mrs D contributed to the delay because  they were  on holiday for three 
weeks in August. However,  if RSA had taken account of the information it had and had sent 
the loss adjuster back once the cause  of the damage was established in July, Mr and Mrs 
Ds holiday  shouldnt have  had any impact  on the progress of the claim.  Instead, RSA 
continued to send Mr and Mrs D emails that showed  it hadnt taken account of the new 
information which made it difficult for them to sort things out while  they were  away.
It seems  the investigator changed his view of the complaint because he considered  that the 
repairs to the worktops couldnt have been carried out before 31 August 2018 when the 
drying was completed  therefore he couldnt  say the claim handling caused a delay in the 
reinstatement of the kitchen. However,  in my view, the failure  to recognise the full scope of 
the claim in July did cause additional  distress to Mr and Mrs D as they had to continue to 
argue about  the scope of the claim for a further  two months with uncertainty  about how 
theyd be able to fund their kitchen repairs. In addition, I think  that, had RSA accepted  the 
scope of the claim earlier, Mr and Mrs D wouldve been able to make  arrangements for their 
kitchen to be installed as soon as the drying was finished at the end of August. Instead they 
had to wait for the correct settlement to be offered in October based on the new assessment 
of the loss adjuster from late September.
Because RSA failed  to take account of its own loss adjusters  assessment of the cause  of 
the damp, the scope of the claim and the settlement  werent resolved until after RSA sent its 
final response letter on 1 September  2018 rejecting the complaint. RSAs said we cant look 
at anything that happened after the final response letter.  But this service  takes  a pragmatic 
and holistic approach to complaint resolution  and I cant see any benefit to either  the 
business or the consumer of failing to consider  what happened  in September and October 
when the claim was finally settled. Those developments show  that the claim was agreed.  But 
the service problem stems from RSAs failure to assess the information it had properly in 
July 2018.
Ref: DRN37247323Looking at the way RSAs  handled Mr and Mrs Ds claim overall, I dont think its provided  
the level of service wed expect to see in a claim of this kind.  Its poor service caused 
ongoing distress  to Mr and Mrs D who were concerned about whether theyd have sufficient 
funds to reinstate  their kitchen for two months longer than was necessary. In addition, this 
uncertainty meant they couldnt arrange  for the kitchen to be refitted as quickly  as possible.
In light of this, I find that RSA should  pay Mr and Mrs D £350 for the trouble and upset its 
poor claims  handling caused  them.  This is a moderate level of compensation which  reflects 
the frustration and upset caused  by RSAs failure to take account of the information 
provided. It also reflects the ongoing uncertainty Mr and Mrs D suffered about  settlement of 
the claim which caused anxiety and some  delay in finalising arrangements to repair  the 
kitchen. Our compensation is tailored to the impact on particular consumers taking account 
of all the circumstances of a case.  But this award is in line with our broad approach to 
compensation for non-financial loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld.
Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay Mr and Mrs D £350 for the trouble and 
upset its poor claims handling  has caused them. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 January 2020.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3724732