K821x#15complaint
Mrs C and Miss K complain about  HNW  Lending Limiteds administration  of a bridging loan. 
They ask that it refunds  its arrangement  fee and pays compensation of £10,000 for their 
stress. 
background
In June 2017, Ms K took out a bridging  loan of £95,000 with HNW. The loan was to finance 
the purchase of a buy to let property. Mrs C was the guarantor. The loan was secured 
against two buy to let properties. Mrs C and Miss K have  a number of complaints: 
Mrs C was named as borrower, instead  of Miss K.
HNW increased  the loan amount by adding a charge of £5,000 on top of the £90,000 
loan.
HNW increased  the arrangement fee from 1.95% to 2.95% without explanation.
HNW wrongly  applied  an early  repayment charge (ERC) when the loan was repaid in 
August 2017.
HNW didnt remove the change  from the second property, meaning Mrs C couldnt sell it.
HNW charged  them  for an employee  to act as their solicitor, who didnt act in their best 
interests.
Our investigator recommended that Mrs C and Miss Ks complaint that HNW didnt remove  
the charge from the property promptly should be upheld. He said it should pay £350 for the 
trouble caused.  The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs C and Miss Ks other complaints 
should be upheld.  
Mrs C and Miss K didnt agree. Mrs C said £350 didnt even cover their legal fees. She also 
asked that the arrangement fee be refunded  and for compensation. She said they had to 
accept the change to the arrangement fee as this was presented  as take  it or leave it and 
without the loan theyd have lost the property and their deposit. 
HNW didnt agree either. It said it takes  several weeks  for the land registry to process a 
discharge. So sending  a second discharge form in September 2017 (when Mrs C first raised 
the issue) would have  been premature. It says it didnt hear from Mrs C and Miss K again for 
some time, so assumed the charge  had been removed. HNW  said when they did contact it 
again, it acted  immediately. It said £100 would  be fair compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Miss K and Mrs C applied to HNW for a loan on 15 June 2017.  They  asked for a revised  loan 
on 20 June 2017.  HNW  issued an in-principle  offer on 20 June for a £90,000 loan to fund the 
purchase of a buy to let property. The loan was for six months. The offer says Miss K was 
responsible for paying £1,200 towards  the arrangement fee, HNWs legal costs (estimated at 
£1,900) and disbursements (including VAT), regardless of whether the loan completed.  
Ref: DRN38167532The loan offer says,  subject to valuation, title checks and signed documentation, funds were  
to be available  from 23 June 2017. HNW says Miss K and Mrs C confirmed they wanted to 
go ahead  on 21 June  2017, with completion  on 23 June  2017.
incorrect borrower on the loan agreement
Both the loan offer and the loan agreement name Miss K as the borrower  and Mrs C as the 
guarantor. I cant  see that HNW made an error  here.
extra charges added  to the loan amount
The loan offer on 20 June 2017 said the loan amount  was £90,000. HNW  says the loan 
amount was increased by £5,000 to fund charges and legal fees as Miss K and Mrs C didnt 
have other  means  of paying these and needed  £90,000 towards the purchase. 
HNW sent completion statements for loans  of £90,000 and of £95,000 to Miss Ks solicitor,  
and says the solicitor  confirmed they agreed to the £95,000 loan. 
increase in arrangement fee
HNW increased  its arrangement fee from 1.95%  to 2.95% on 23 June 2017. It said this was 
because Miss K hadnt made the upfront payment required when she accepted  the loan 
offer, which increased  its risk. She also asked  for completion on an urgent basis, in a shorter 
timeframe than usual. And the loan amount was increased to cover  her costs. 
HNW confirmed this on the morning of 23 June 2017. The higher fee is reflected  in the 
completion statement.
Mrs C says they agreed to the higher fee as they had limited options at this point. Theyd 
have lost the deposit on the property if they didnt take the loan.
A change  like this at the last minute  could  be unfair.  But here, I must take into account the 
very short timescale over which the loan was completed. Miss K and Mrs C required 
changes after the loan offer (such as an increase in the loan amount  and not paying the 
upfront fee). It was inevitable that any changes would be close  to completion.  
It was clear in the offer that the loan was subject to checks and documents  being agreed. I 
can see that Miss K was in a difficult position  if shed paid a deposit before securing finance, 
but it was her choice  to take the risk of paying  the deposit. Miss K agreed to the increased 
fee. In the circumstances,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to require  HNW to refund all or 
any part of the arrangement fee.
Early Repayment Charge  (ERC)
The loan agreement  says "The loan may be repaid in whole  or in part at any time prior to the 
expiry of the Loan  Period subject to a charge  of a half of the interest  that would otherwise 
have accruedto  the end of the Loan  Period."
The loan offer also said an ERC was payable. So I dont think HNW made an error  when it 
applied an ERC  or misled  Miss K and Mrs C about  an ERC being payable.  
Ref: DRN38167533security discharge form not being  issued
HNW says it sent the discharge  form (DS1)  to Miss Ks solicitor  by post shortly after the loan 
was repaid (on 11 August 2017). It says it wasnt its usual practice at that time to keep  
copies.
Mrs C sent an email  to her own solicitor, copied to HNWs solicitor, on 21 September  2017 
giving notice that she would apply to court  as the discharge form hadnt been  issued.  HNW 
says this was within  the usual time scales for the Land Registry to remove  charges, so it 
didnt respond.  It says as it didnt hear more it assumed the charge had been removed.
Mrs C and Miss K raised a number of concerns with HNW in August and September 2018. 
One of these was that no DS1 form had been issued for one of the properties. Mrs C asked 
for the form to be issued.
Solicitors acting for Mrs C contacted  HNW in April 2019 saying the charge hadnt been  
removed. HNW sent an electronic discharge form to the Land Registry  the next day. The 
charge was removed.
Mrs C says she couldnt sell the property in 2018 due to the charge. But Mrs C hasnt 
provided evidence  of loss, for instance that she had a buyer but was unable  to proceed with 
the sale due to the charge. 
Mrs C provided  letters  from her doctor  and health  trust supporting  what  shes said about the 
stress this caused her. The letters refer to an assessment in mid August 2017   before she 
could have been aware of any problems with the charge being removed.
HNW cant provide evidence it sent the discharge  form to Miss Ks solicitor in August 2017.  
This doesnt mean it didnt do so. But it was clear  when Mrs C and Miss K contacted  it in 
August and September 2018  that the form hadnt  been received. I think  having  to chase 
again for the DS1 form would have caused  them some inconvenience.  In all, the charge 
remained in place for about 18 months after the loan was repaid. I think £350 compensation 
for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Legal costs for HNWs solicitor
Miss K agreed to pay HNWs legal costs and disbursements (including  VAT) when  she 
agreed to the loan.  I dont think HNW made  an error here. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order HNW Lending  Limited to pay £350 to 
Mrs C and Miss K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3816753