K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr N says Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr N has told us that he was unaware that the policy had been added to his account - so he 
has said it was added  without his knowledge or consent. But I note his representatives have 
also said it was implied that taking out the cover would improve  his chances  of getting the 
credit card. These two statements are somewhat contradictory which  would suggest that 
Mr Ns recollection of the events from such a long time ago have been affected  which is 
understandable. In situations like this I need  to consider what I think  is more likely to have 
happened. 
Both parties  agree that this sale was made via the internet.  Ive seen examples of the 
internet pages  that Capital One says were in use at the time of the sale. These show  options  
to accept or decline to take out the PPI - both options appear  equally prominent on the page. 
I havent seen  anything written on these example pages which  would suggest that the cover 
was compulsory or that Mr Ns choice  whether  or not to take out the cover  would affect  his 
application. Ive also seen data records captured from his online application which  show  that 
the PPI was selected during this process. 
In addition to this I have also seen copies  of Mr Ns credit card statements and I can see that 
the charge for the PPI was shown as a separate entry on his account. If Mr N didnt know  
what this charge was for or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think he would have questioned this 
with Capital One at the time.
So on balance, I think Capital One made  it clear  that the policy was optional and Mr N 
agreed to take out the PPI cover during his internet application for the credit card, knowing 
he could refuse it if he didnt want it. 
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr N got the information  he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
Ref: DRN38187402But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr N, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr N any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818740