K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Bank of Scotland PLC, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  He applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by post.  At the time,  Mr L was employed in public services.  He 
has told us he was entitled to 12 months sick pay, which  Ive taken to mean six months  full 
pay and sick months  half pay. Mr L has said he was in overall  good  health apart from having 
had a wisdom tooth removed in 1999.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mr Ls credit card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the credit card account  closed  in 2008. Mr Ls 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mr Ls 
representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr L about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr L and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN38317512my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). The credit agreement itself 
concluded in 2008. That means  the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgement in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of complaints about the non-
disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
Ref: DRN38317513intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
Ls case. I have also taken account  of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the 
law relating to negligence,  misrepresentation and contract (including  the express and implied 
duty on professional  advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the 
law relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation  and 
remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  There was a section of Mr Ls 
postal application  which was about PPI. It was brief, but it set out that there  were  charges 
involved and it also invited him to either select PPI or go ahead  with his card application  
without adding PPI. Mr L selected the PPI option.  So, taking everything into account,  I think  
Ref: DRN38317514its more likely that Mr L knew the policy was optional and he agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
This wasnt an advised  sale because, as postal  application, Mr L would have filled out the 
form(s) in his own time and without an intervention from Halifax.  This means  Halifax didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and 
not misleading way  the main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
the information
Halifax provided us with Mr Ls application  form showing that PPI had been  selected. It also 
referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says he wouldve  seen, including  the policy terms 
and conditions which I accept on a balance of probabilities, applied to policies like Mr Ls. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr L at the time, I dont think Halifax  gave  Mr L 
enough of the information he fairly  and reasonably  needed to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. The application form didnt give Mr L much  information about 
the PPI, but it referred him to a leaflet about  it which I assume was included  with his form. I 
think its unlikely Mr L would have  agreed  to take the PPI out without at least having a broad 
understanding of the cover it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness  and unemployment 
cover. And I think its unlikely Mr L would have thought it was free, because it said there 
were costs.
But it was Halifaxs responsibility  to draw to Mr Ls attention  the important information  i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to his decision. 
Im not persuaded Halifax did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of 
the policy was made  clear  to Mr L, particularly the need to maintain premiums  during a claim 
or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Halifax adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
So I dont  think Halifax gave Mr L sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN38317515-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either.
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr L. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr L suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr L would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Halifax done  things properly. 
Mr L says he wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  What Mr L might have thought he was getting 
is not exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr L ought reasonably  to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that Halifax  didnt make clear  the on-going cost information.  So while Mr L didnt 
know some  things, the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not dissimilar 
to what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to 
take out the policy on and found  acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions or symptoms  that Mr L 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
Ref: DRN38317516The policy contained certain limitations  on claims relating to back  and mental  health  
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do. 
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mr L turned 65.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest  he wouldve been  
caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr L didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions as defined  by the rules  and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr L might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr L 
from taking out the policy,  Mr L, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr L had known he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  be qualified 
for, it might have played into his thinking about what he would have done. And I accept it 
may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mr L was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Mr L was 52 when he took out the PPI, so I think its more likely than not hed have thought  
hed still get some value  out of having the PPI, as it would  have  covered  him for a 
reasonable period of time before he turned  65. 
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr L would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was and I think the policy could provide a useful  benefit  in a difficult  time, 
notwithstanding his employment benefits and other  means.  And in those  circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Ref: DRN38317517Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr L thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr L, in the way it 
did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to 
have met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN38317518the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831751