K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) alongside a credit card.
background
In 2005 Miss H applied  for and took out a credit  card with HSBC. Due to the passage of time 
HSBC doesnt  know how and where  the sale happened. But Miss H says it happened in a 
meeting. It is on this basis that the complaint has been considered.
It is known that at the same time as taking out the card Miss H also took out PPI, which was 
designed to protect  her card payments in the event of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
Upon a successful  claim it would pay a monthly  benefit of 10% of the outstanding monthly 
card balance for up to 12 months. Its basic cost was 79 pence for every  £100 Miss H owed  
on the card.
Miss Hs credit card account  closed during the second half of 2007.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said that in her view she thought  Miss H 
had likely chosen to take out the cover  and she didnt  think  Miss H had lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI, which meant she should get back everything she paid for PPI. But she said 
HSBCs offer to pay back some of the commission it earned was fair in the circumstances.
Miss H, through her representative,  disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Miss Hs case.
HSBCs records  do not show how Miss H took out PPI with the credit card; albeit  it was all 
done at the same time.  But it says it has assumed it was an advised  branch sale because  
Miss H says she took out PPI during a meeting. So, on the basis that Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me that something  different happened, I think  its likely this was an 
advised branch  sale.
This means  HSBC not only had to give Miss H enough clear and timely information  to enable 
her to make an informed decision about  PPI, it also had to take reasonable steps  to ensure it 
was right or suitable  for her needs and circumstances at the time. Ive kept this in mind in my 
consideration of the complaint.
Having carefully considered what both parties  have  given me, Ive decided Miss H has not 
lost out as a result of having PPI to the extent that she should  get back everything she paid 
for it because:
I think HSBC made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Ref: DRN32067962HSBC no longer holds a copy of Miss Hs credit card application   and this isnt 
surprising given how long ago things happened. Its also several years since Miss Hs 
account was closed. But it has shown us examples of the paperwork completed during 
an advised branch  meeting. And this shows a consumer would have had to tick a box 
and sign separately  from the main  credit agreement itself to take out PPI. I think this is 
enough to show  that it was an optional  and a separate product from the credit  card.
Because Ive not seen enough to persuade me that something different happened  in 
Miss Hs case, I think its likely Miss H chose to take out PPI when it was offered to her 
and that she agreed  to take it out by completing the necessary paperwork as Ive 
described above.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the significant exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  for example existing medical  condition exclusions  and she seems to have had 
a need for the cover; Miss Hs sick pay wasnt so significant  that PPI was inappropriate 
or wouldnt have  been  of any use to her.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out  albeit  she likely did so based  on 
incomplete information - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong  it would have paid out 
alongside any sick pay and for longer if necessary. It also looks like it was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put Miss H off taking out the 
cover. 
This means HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But HSBC  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because : 
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said - including what shes said about her being off 
work and becoming  unemployed  but not claiming  on the policy  and how this is evidence she 
didnt know she had PPI. But these points dont change my decision.
Not making a claim isnt in and of itself enough  reason for me to uphold  Miss Hs complaint 
on the basis she didnt  know  she had the policy because it was added  without  her 
knowledge or consent. Based on what Ive already  said above,  given  the paperwork I think 
Miss H wouldve likely completed  when  she took out her credit  card,  I think  she agreed  to 
take out PPI and so would have reasonably understood  she had it. Im also mindful that the 
PPI premiums wouldve  appeared  on Miss Hs credit card statements as a separate entry. 
So if she didnt recognise what  this was, I think its reasonable to assume she would have 
queried it with HSBC sooner.
Ref: DRN32067963The reasons  for not making  a claim are varied.  And Im not entirely clear from the dates Miss 
H has spoken about exactly when she was off work  ill or was made unemployed. For 
example the things Miss H has said happened after 2007 wouldnt have been covered 
because the policy had ended. 
So while I understand Miss H will be disappointed with my decision, Ive not seen enough 
here to support what Miss H says happened and uphold her complaint on the basis she 
didnt choose  or agree  to take out PPI.
what the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HSBC should also pay back  to Miss H any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
HSBC should  re-work  the credit card account  and pay back  to Miss H the difference  
between what Miss H owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HSBC  should also pay Miss H 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that Miss H has not lost out to the 
extent that she should  get back everything she paid for PPI.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss H any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium as Ive detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3206796