K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Paragon Finance PLC (Idem)  is chasing  her aggressively for a debt 
she disputes owing.  And she further  complains that unfair charges have been applied.  She 
wants the debt written off or reduced and compensation.
background
Mrs B is represented in this complaint by F, a firm.
On behalf of Mrs B, F informed us that she believes the debt originates from a personal  loan 
of over £20,000 taken  out with a bank  Ill refer to as H. F told us it considered the debt was 
made irresponsibly - as adequate checks had not been  carried out. And it considered the 
debt to be unenforceable. It said Mrs B considered that the correspondence and 
communications shed  received from Idem had been aggressive. And that charges and costs 
had been added to the debt. It said that Mrs B denied owing the sum now claimed - 
£7,327.02
Idem told us the debt related to a bank account overdraft and a personal loan which had 
originally been  owned by H. It said that the debt had been sent to Hs recovery services  in 
2009. And it had been sold by H in 2013  to a company  Ill refer to as M. Idem said it had 
subsequently bought  the debt from M in December 2016. It said it considered the debt was 
that of Mrs B.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Idem had 
provided a transaction history to Mrs B which confirmed account movements from November 
2012. She said these  showed a balance of over £7,000 remained outstanding. She said she 
hadnt seen any information to show her that Idem had sent aggressive or inappropriate 
letters to Mrs B, when chasing the debt.
Mrs B was not satisfied  with this outcome. She felt Idem hadnt established how the debt 
arose and wanted  a final decision to be made  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs B seems to have experienced financial difficulty. And I accept this is 
always a stressful situation  with which to have to contend.
The terms of the original complaint from F were  rather wide and did not seem to distinguish 
between those issues which were  for Idem to address and those which  F knew,  or ought 
reasonably to have  known,  were not Idems  responsibility. So I need to explain what matters 
I can look at in relation  to Idem and those issues that should be referred  elsewhere.
I also need to say that I dont apply the law - directly - although I do take it into account.  This 
means its not for me to decide if Mrs B owes  this debt or if its enforceable - that would be 
for a court to determine. Ive not seen  anything to show that Idem  has commenced legal 
proceedings. What  Im looking at, is to see if Idem has reasonable grounds  for believing  that 
Mrs B owes  the debt and, if so, has it been fair in the way it has sought to recover the debt.
Ref: DRN38102252Ill deal briefly with the issue of affordability. Idem was not the original suppliers of this loan 
and/or bank account and so had nothing to do with assessing its affordability.  If Mrs B is able 
- after this length of time - to bring  a complaint about affordability it would need  to be 
addressed to the original supplier of the finance. 
Idem is inevitably relying on information supplied by H as to the origins of the debt. From the 
information Ive seen the debt comes from a personal loan and an overdraft facility  supplied 
by H. The relevant account  numbers were identified in our adjudicators  view letter. The 
account details  Ive seen all appear to refer to Mrs B. I think  Idem is entitled to rely on the 
information supplied  by H and to conclude  that this debt was properly owed by Mrs B.
Ive seen information from the original  owner of the debt, H, that it assigned (sold) the debt 
on 30 January 2013. And that it notified Mrs B at the time. On the date of this assignment the 
debt was £11,423.91. Ive also seen a copy of a letter dated 23 November 2016  which  was 
sent by Idem  to Mrs B at her current address. This letter indicated that Idem had bought the 
debt with effect from 12 December 2016.  At that date the statement Ive been provided with 
shows the debt at £7,872.08. So I think Mrs B was properly notified of this assignment.
Ive also seen a copy of a statement dated  15 February 2019 and which Idem  supplied  to 
Mrs B. This shows the history of payments made on the account from November 2012 until 
November 2018.  The statements show that payments have been made regularly throughout 
the period up until July 2017. After that, payments have  been irregular and the last payment 
of which  Ive seen  a record is on 5 November 2018. The account also shows  a reducing  
balance consistent  with those payments that were made. And I cant  see where charges 
have been added since Idem acquired the debt. 
As payments have  continued to be made on the account I think this shows  Idem had 
reasonable grounds for believing Mrs B owed the debt - and that she accepted that she did. 
And it was, in my opinion,  entitled to take steps to try to recover  the rest of the money it was 
owed.
Nothing in the information Ive been  given  suggests  to me that Idem  has been aggressive in 
its dealings with Mrs B. The letters Ive seen Id characterise as factual in content and 
restrained in tone. I accept it may well be upsetting  to receive any communication  about a 
debt - but theres  nothing here that makes me believe that Idem acted inappropriately.
In summary,  I dont think Idem has done  anything  wrong in relation to this complaint. It has 
reasonable grounds for believing the debt is that of Mrs B and that it is entitled to seek  
repayment from her. I also think it has acted  reasonably in the manner in which it has 
pursued the debt.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38102253
Ref: DRN3810225