K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about refurbishment charges when his agreement  with LeasePlan UK 
Limited ended.
background
In March 2015 Mr R was supplied with a van and entered into a hire agreement  with 
LeasePLan.
The agreement lasted  for 36 months. At the end of the agreement  the van was inspected  
and collected.  
LeasePlan subsequently asked Mr R to pay charges for excess  mileage (which  is not in 
dispute) and refurbishment charges.
Mr R isnt happy about the refurbishment  charges. He complained to LeasePlan and said 
that the damage was acceptable wear  and tear.
In its final response LeasePlan waived two fees totalling £317  because the damage couldnt 
be clearly seen in the inspection  photographs.  This left a balance of £466.00.
Mr R remained  unhappy with LeasePlans response so he complained to this service.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said that the charges were fair save  for 
the charges in relation  to scratches on the offside wing which he felt did not amount to 
excess wear and tear based on the photograph  and the industry  guidelines. The investigator 
recommended that LeasePlan  refund the fee of £143.00.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the hire agreement. This says that the van should  be returned in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
often used by finance companies  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear. In addition to these Ive looked at LeasePlans own fair wear  and tear guidelines. 
Ive looked at the inspection report. This identifies  damage which  LeasePlan says is more  
than fair wear and tear and is therefore chargeable. There are also photos  of the damage. 
Most of the photographs show visible damage. Save  for the two fees already removed by 
LeasePlan, the only item of damage which I have some doubt about is the item labelled  
scratch  to primer small panel OS wing. The guidelines say that scratches up to 25mm  are 
acceptable wear  and tear provided that the primer  or the metal isnt showing. Looking  at the 
photograph relating to this item of damage, Im unable to see that the primer has been 
exposed. In addition I dont think the scratch exceeds 25mm.  Therefore I dont think it was 
Ref: DRN30246612fair for LeasePlan  to charge Mr R for this item of damage and the charge should  be 
refunded.
In respect of the remaining  items  of damage Im satisfied that these exceed  fair wear and 
tear in accordance with the guidelines and that the charges are fair.
Taking all of the available evidence into account  Im unable to ask LeasePlan to waive  all of 
the refurbishment charges. But the charge of £143.00 in relation to the scratch on the offside 
wing which  Ive mentioned above  should  be refunded to Mr R.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited should refund 
the sum of £143.00 (in addition to the £317.00  already refunded).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024661