K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr S says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mr S that he had a choice about it. 
But Mr S says he wasnt made aware he had taken the PPI or that it was separate  to the 
credit card.
Capital One says the PPI was sold during a phone call when Mr S also applied  for the credit 
card. Its sent us copies of the phone scripts it says were in use for these types of calls 
around the time of the sale. And based  on these, and what I understand about  its sales 
practices around the time,  I think its likely Capital One made it clear to Mr S that he had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mrs S chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mr S any personalised advice about  the 
PPI. So I dont think it recommended the PPI to him. This means  Capital One didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for Mr S. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than hes told us he wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it 
wouldve meant he didnt  need to rely on his partner or any savings he had to make his 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So it would have been useful for him if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put Mr S off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because :
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN38634722what the business needs  to do
Capital One has to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. Capital One should  also pay back  to Mr S any extra interest 
he paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr S the difference 
between what Mr S owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3863472