K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that Phoenix Life Limited  wrongly  recorded him as a non-smoker when 
taking over his existing life insurance policy and selling him three  new ones. He spotted this 
in 2014 and Phoenix agreed to correct  this error.  But he discovered  in 2018 that it had failed 
to do so.
background 
Phoenix upheld  the complaint and agreed  to pay £250 in lieu of its errors. Mr J did not 
accept this was sufficient as he felt that if hed had to make a claim it would not have paid 
the sums  assured given the policies were set up on an incorrect basis.
An investigator at this service felt £250  was not unreasonable in the circumstances, and said 
it wouldnt be appropriate to speculate on what might have happened  if a claim had been 
made (or the amount of upset  any rejection might  have  caused).
He said Mr J had not lost out as hed actually paid lower premiums than had been required 
for someone  registered as a smoker.
Mrs J, on behalf of Mr J, did not agree and said:
Phoenix incorrectly reviewed the policies on several  occasions  on the basis that Mr J 
was a non-smoker
This meant  he was unable to compare the real cost of the premiums with other  
providers quotes. This disadvantaged him
Phoenix continued to sell him policies which were not fit for purpose  as he was 
wrongly recorded as a non-smoker
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I broadly agree with the investigator - and for the same reasons - about the merits of 
this complaint and Phoenixs offer of £250.
Mr J paid lower  premiums  than he should have done as a result of Phoenixs  errors. These 
errors are clear  and indisputable, and Phoenix accepted them  when they were brought to its 
attention. So I have no doubt that it would have paid out the sums assured if a claim had 
been made. If it had not done so this service would have instructed it to do so. I dont accept 
these policies were  not fit for purpose  even though  they contained  an important error.
Crucially, I dont accept that Mr J has suffered a financial loss as a result of these errors. I 
think it is unlikely that a different provider would have charged  less for a smoker  status  
policy than Mr J was paying  for a non-smoker status policy  with Phoenix. There  is certainly  
no evidence to support  such an unlikely contention.
However, if Mr J had paid the slightly higher premiums required under a smoker status 
policy this would have  resulted in slightly higher  surrender values than the amounts he 
received when he surrendered the policies.
Ref: DRN30580212As I take the view that Mr J would have agreed to pay the correct smoker  rate premiums 
throughout the period  of these policies, I think it is only fair that Phoenix should pay the 
amounts he would have been  due if the policies  had been set up correctly  (even  though he 
did not pay the higher premiums).
After speaking to Phoenix,  it agreed to pay the difference between what Mr J received and 
what he would have  got via smoker status policies.  It provided a detailed  breakdown  of 
these figures. The difference  accumulatively comes  to £106.08.  It also agreed to pay this 
services standard  compensatory interest rate of 8% simple per annum on this sum  from 
the date it paid out the surrender amounts to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Phoenix  Life Limited to pay compensation as outlined 
above plus the £250 previously offered (if this has not been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058021