K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about a handling fee and interest Tesco  Personal  Finance Plc (trading as 
Tesco Bank)  charged on his credit card. He says Tesco  Bank shouldnt have treated a 
payment he made as a cash transaction. 
background
Mr W used his credit card to make a payment  of £5,014 to clear the final instalment for his 
son to buy a car. When he received his credit card statement a few weeks  later, he found  
hed been charged a cash transaction  fee of £200.06 and an additional £70.64  in interest.
Tesco Bank told Mr W it had issued him a Notice of Variation (NoV)  in April 2018 advising  
him of changes to his accounts terms and conditions. The NoV stated it would be changing 
the types of transactions  Tesco Bank would consider to be a cash  transaction and the fees 
associated with these  from 31 May 2018.  The types of transactions now classed as cash  
included repaying  borrowing.  The fee had been applied  correctly because the transaction  
was to a finance company.
Mr W brought his complaint to us. He said he didnt  receive the NoV and disputed that the 
purchase of a car could be classed as a cash transaction. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns, but didnt think  his complaint should be 
upheld. She said she didnt think Tesco Bank  had made an error when calculating the 
charge and interest for his transaction. She agreed  with Tesco Bank  listing the transaction 
as a cash transaction because it was made to a finance company so the transaction was 
correctly classified as repaying borrowing. She said she thought  that on balance, 
Tesco Bank was likely to have sent the NoV. But even if Mr W didnt receive  it, she didnt 
think it would  have  impacted his decision to pay for the car using his Tesco Bank  credit  card.  
Mr W disagreed  with our investigators view.  He said it was up to Tesco Bank to prove it had 
sent the NoV. He was completely unaware of the fee and that interest  would accrue 
immediately unlike the standard use of the card. It was Tesco  Banks responsibility to make  
customers aware of this. And in his view, the transaction was a purchase.  
As Mr W didnt agree  with our investigators  opinion, his complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint.  Ill explain why.
Tesco Bank had a responsibility to treat Mr W fairly and to communicate  with him in a way 
which was clear, fair and not misleading.
Tesco Bank says the NoV was sent to Mr W with his April 2018  statement by post. I can see 
that Mr Ws April 2018 statement has the wording Notice of Variation.  Please read the 
enclosed leaflet which gives  you notice of changes being made to your Terms and 
Conditions with effect from 31 May 2018 . Tesco Bank has sent us a screenshot to show    
Mr W was also receiving his statements online.  It says Mr W would have received the NoV 
within the body  of the email letting him know that his statement was available  to view online. 
Ref: DRN32403602On balance, I think Tesco Bank is likely to have let Mr W know  about the changes to the 
terms and conditions of his credit agreement before they took place. 
Tesco Bank has sent us a copy  of the NoV dated  April 2018 which  sets out the key changes 
taking place. It lists number one as Cash withdrawals and transactions  and says we are 
changing the types of transactions we classify as cash. The NoV gives further details of the 
changes to the agreement later on when  it says the new wording is: A handling fee of 
3.99% (no minimum charge) of the amount for cash transactions.  Cash transactions  are 
gambling transactions, wire or international money  transfers, repaying borrowing  (e.g. loans 
and mortgages), . Below this wording  it says: The types of transactions  classified as 
cash are listed  above .
Mr W says he doesnt  believe the payment he made should  be classed as a cash  
transaction. But the payment was made  to a car finance company and hes told us it was to 
pay the final instalment  for his sons car purchase. So Im satisfied that Mr Ws transaction  
was for repaying borrowing. And I dont think Tesco Bank acted unfairly  when it 
categorised the transaction as a cash transaction.
Mr W has also commented that Tesco Bank didnt make him aware that interest would 
accrue immediately, unlike the standard use of the card. I can see that interest charging 
information  is showing  on Mr Ws credit  card statements.  It says you will not pay interest on 
new purchases if you pay your balance in full and on time. Otherwise, the period over which  
interest is charged is as follows: Purchases, Cash withdrawals, Cash  transactions, Balance  
transfers and Money Transfers from the date debited to your account until repaid in full. So I 
think Tesco  Bank did inform Mr W about how interest would be charged. While purchases  
might not attract  interest if the full balance was paid on time, interest  would be charged for 
cash transactions as soon  as it was debited from Mr Ws account. 
I appreciate my answer  will be disappointing  for Mr W, who wasnt  expecting  these  charges.  
But I think Tesco Bank gave Mr W clear information about the changes to the terms and 
conditions of the credit agreement, and its acted  within these terms and conditions. So I 
dont think Tesco Bank has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3240360