K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 1999. It 
was sold to Mr Y when he applied for a credit card. Barclays Bank UK PLC has taken  
responsibility for this sale, so Ill refer to Barclays throughout this decision.  
background
Our adjudicator considered this complaint and was of the view that the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. 
Mr Y didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain the reasons for this.
First of all there were  rules about who could  qualify for the cover under the policy. Based on 
his circumstances  Mr Y met these rules. So I think hed have been  able to claim on the PPI if 
he needed to.
Next Ive looked at whether Barclays made it clear enough to Mr Y that the policy was 
optional. Barclays has sent us an example of the type of web-based application form Mr Y 
would have used  when he was applying for his credit card.  From what we know  about these 
types of sale  and from what  Barclays has said about it  I think Mr B would have had to 
either agree to or decline  the PPI before being allowed to finish  his application. So overall, I 
think Barclays made it clear to Mr Y that he didnt have to take out the policy  and he chose to 
take it out.
Barclays didnt recommend the policy  to Mr Y so it wasnt required to check  that the PPI was 
right for him. However Barclays was required to give Mr Y information that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so he could make the decision  for himself about  whether or not to take 
the PPI. Ive considered the possibility  that Barclays didnt give Mr Y clear  enough  
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  
Mr Y told us that if he was too ill to work or was made unemployed hed have been entitled 
to full pay for six months and half pay for the following six months. But the cost of the PPI 
was comparable to the cost of other,  similar  policies available at the time. And he chose to 
take it out, so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Ive also considered the possibility  
that Barclays didnt  point out the main things  the policy didnt cover.  But Mr Y wouldnt have 
been affected by any of those things. Having considered this, I dont think  its likely that 
better information would  have  dissuaded  Mr Y from buying the PPI. So overall, I dont think  
this policy  was mis-sold.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y because:  
Ref: DRN37992402Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mr Y, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr Y, but Ive concluded  that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so 
Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr Y any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799240