K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that the poor quality of repair  undertaken under his home  emergency  
insurance cover, underwritten by Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited,  caused damage  to 
his home  when the repair failed.
When I refer to Admiral in this decision,  I am including any contractors used  by them  to 
conduct repairs or claims handling,  unless otherwise stated.
Background
Mr M had a home emergency  insurance policy, underwritten by Admiral.  He had a water  leak 
in his home and Admiral  sent out an engineer  who identified the faulty joint, and fixed  and 
tested it. 
Approximately two months  later the same  joint burst,  causing damage to Mr Ms home. 
Admiral sent a different engineer who replaced the joint that had previously been repaired. 
He said there wasnt an insert fitted  into it, the absence of which  had caused it to burst.
Mr M complained to Admiral that the burst  and subsequent damage to his home  was as a 
result of negligence by their first engineer.
Admiral said in response, the first engineer  conducted a temporary repair, which was in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. They  said the required insert must have been 
missing prior to his attendance. And, as he didnt replace the joint, only cleaned and refitted 
the existing one, he wouldnt have noticed that it was missing.
Mr M did not agree, so brought  the complaint to us.
The investigator thought it was more  likely  than not that the required insert  was present prior 
to the first engineers visit. And it wasnt replaced when the joint was refitted. He also thought 
that Mr M wouldnt  have been  aware that the repair carried out was considered  only 
temporary and wouldnt  have known it would require  further work.
As a result, he thought  it was fair and reasonable for Admiral to arrange the repair  of the 
damage to Mr Ms home. He also thought Admiral should pay Mr M £250 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by the damage following the initial  repair.  And for the 
delays in Admirals  investigation.
Mr M accepted this view,  but Admiral did not. They said the required insert was not present  
prior to their engineers attendance, so the defect was from the initial  installation.  They  said 
the engineer wouldnt  have been  in a position  to see the insert  was not present, as he didnt  
replace the joint,  just cleaned and refitted  it. They also said the repair was only temporary, 
which is stated in the terms and conditions of the policy.
The investigator considered this information, but it didnt  change his view.  As Admiral didnt 
agree, the matter  has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32136562To decide the fair and reasonable outcome  in this complaint, I have to decide  whether I think 
Admiral is responsible, due to the actions of the first engineer who attended, for the 
subsequent burst. And therefore,  whether I think they should make  good the damage it 
caused.
I agree  with the view of the investigator, for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Admiral have said theyre not liable for the damage caused  by the burst.  Theyve pointed out 
the following  section  of the policy terms and conditions  of Mr Ms cover:
This cover meets the demands and needs of persons wishing to ensure that in the event of 
an emergency in their home , the cover they receive  will help to arrange  and pay for work to 
be carried out to make a temporary repair  of the damage caused by specified  events 
occurring within their property.
Temporary repair: Repairs and/or work immediately required to stop further damage being 
caused by the emergency. You will need  to replace  this with a permanent repair.
Theyve also said that the required  insert  cant have been present when the first engineer  
attended. And due to the type of repair he completed,  he wouldnt have seen that it wasnt 
present. So, they cant be liable  for the burst.
It is expected that any repair,  be it temporary  or permanent,  should  be conducted 
competently. The original  engineer took before  and after photographs of the affected joint.  
He completed an electronic report on which  he wrote Diagnosed leak on cold main fitting, 
stripped and refitted and tested upon  completion.   
Mr M has said he was not told this was only a temporary repair. Admiral  have not said 
anything to the contrary. The joint was cleaned and refitted by an expert,  who said he had 
tested it. There was no indication that any more work  was required on the joint to complete 
the repair. So, I think it is likely that Mr M thought it was now in a good condition.
It is common practice in cases such as these, for any additional  work  that is thought to be 
necessary, to be offered to the consumer at the time, at an additional cost. I think, had the 
engineer thought more work  was required,  it is more likely than not he would have told Mr M 
at the time, and made  it clear what it was he thought needed doing.
Therefore, I dont think this was really a temporary  repair. And  even if it was  the engineer  
should have made it clear  to Mr M that further  work was needed, not left him with a pipe that 
wasnt secure and where there was a significant  risk it would burst again. So, I dont  think it 
is fair for Admiral to rely on this condition in the policy. 
There is no dispute that the insert  is required in a plumbing joint such  as this one. It is 
designed to prevent a burst of the type that occurred on the second occasion. It is also not 
disputed that there  was no insert present when the second leak occurred,  and this is most 
likely why the joint burst. What is in dispute  however,  is whether  it was present when the first 
engineer attended.
Mr M had lived in the property for 18 years, and this pipework pre-dated  this. It had caused 
Mr M no problems.  Given both engineers  in this case agree that this is an insert that is 
Ref: DRN32136563required to prevent a joint of this type bursting, and that the joint had been sound for over 
18 years,  I think it is more likely than not the insert was present when the first leak occurred.
Having come to this opinion, it follows that I think its more  likely  than not that the insert was 
either removed by the first engineer or fell out when he stripped the joint and not replaced. I 
cant say which of these  happened, but either of them wouldve meant  the first repair  was 
completed without the required insert  being  in place. And I think  it is likely that this caused 
the further burst. 
And I dont  think it is reasonable for Admiral to say the engineer couldnt have seen the 
insert was missing, because I can see he stripped and refitted the joint.  So, I think he 
probably just didnt notice it was missing  when he refitted the joint after it had fallen our or 
hed removed it.
For these reasons, I think Admiral are responsible for the further  burst that occurred and as 
part of the fair and reasonable  outcome  to this complaint, I think  it should repair the damage 
it caused.
I also think that Mr M should receive some compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience 
he has suffered as a result of damage  caused by the burst, and the problems he has 
experienced in trying  to get his matter resolved. Mr M has had to live with the damage to the 
ceiling, walls, doors and floors for many months, so I think  £250 for his distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar)  Limited  to:
either repair the damage to Mr Ms home caused by the burst, or to pay Mr M the 
cost of the repairs.
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3213656